                                     Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR00001094



           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (IDA-35170)



                                       ON A

                                      CREDIT


                    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 31.5 MILLION
                       (US$40.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                            AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC

                                       FOR A

                              HIGHWAY PROJECT



                                September 29, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
South Caucasus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective August 31, 2009)
                         Currency Unit = Manat (AZM)
                              1.00 AZM = US$1.24
                             US$1.00 = 0.81 AZM
                              US$1.00 = SDR 1.57

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1 - December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       -   Asian Development Bank
AZYOL     -   Azeravtoyol State Corporation
AYS       -   Azer Yol Servis
CAS       -   Country Assistance Strategy
EBRD      -   European Bank of Reconstruction and Development
EMP       -   Environmental Management Plan
ERR       -   Economic Rate of Return
EU        -   European Union
GNP       -   Gross National Product
GOA       -   Government of Azerbaijan
HDM 4     -   Highway Design and Maintenance Model, Version 4
ICR       -   Implementation Completion Report
IDA       -   International Development Agency
IFIs      -   International Financing Institutions
ISR       -   Implementation Status and Results Report
LAP       -   Land Acquisition Plan
M&E       -   Monitoring and Evaluation
MOT       -   Ministry of Transport
NPV       -   Net Present Value
PAD       -   Project Appraisal Document
PDO       -   Project Development Objective
PIU       -   Project Implementation Unit
PMS       -   Pavement Management System
QAG       -   Quality Assurance Group
RUC       -   Road User Charges
SDR       -   Special Drawing Rights
TA        -   Technical Assistance
TOR       -   Terms of Reference
TRACECA   -   Transport Corridor Europe Caucasus Asia

                            Vice President: Philippe H. Le Houerou
                         Country Director: Asad Alam
                           Sector Manager: Henry G. Kerali
                      Project Team Leader: Christopher R. Bennett
                        ICR Team Leader: Christopher R. Bennett
                             ICR Author: Mirth Pokorny
                                                   AZERBAIJAN
                                                HIGHWAY PROJECT



                                                        CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph
 A. Basic Information...................................................................................................... iv 
 B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................. iv 
 C. Ratings Summary ...................................................................................................... iv 
 D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... v 
 E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... v 
 F. Results Framework Analysis ...................................................................................... v 
 G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................. viii 
 H. Restructuring (if any) .............................................................................................. viii 
 I. Disbursement Profile .................................................................................................. ix 
 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1 
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6 
 3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11 
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 13 
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 13 
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 16 
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 17 
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 18 
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 21 
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 22 
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 24 
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 24 
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 25 
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 26 
 Annex 8: Comments from Other Partners/Stakeholders............................................... 29 
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 31 
MAP
                                      DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information

Country:                Azerbaijan              Project Name:             Highway Project
Project ID:             P040716                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-35170
ICR Date:               03/03/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          AZERBAIJAN
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          REPUBLIC
Original Total
                        SDR 31.5M               Disbursed Amount:         SDR 31.5M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
 Road Transport Service Department (now Azer Yol Servis)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process              Date              Process            Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:         01/15/1999   Effectiveness:                                02/20/2002
Appraisal:              04/18/2001   Restructuring(s):                             05/24/2005
Approval:               06/12/2001   Mid-term Review:           12/31/2003         11/11/2003
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2005         01/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                    Ratings          Borrower                        Ratings
Quality at Entry:                           Government:
                                            Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                                      Satisfactory
                                            Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                                      Satisfactory
Performance:                                Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                            QAG Assessments
                              Indicators                                         Rating
     Performance                                  (if any)
Potential Problem Project Yes                   Quality at Entry        Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                   6
Roads and highways                                                 94


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Access to urban services and housing                            Secondary
Infrastructure services for private sector development            Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                                 Primary

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:
Country Director:          Gregory T. Jedrzejczak              Judy O'Connor
Sector Manager:            Henry Kerali                        Eva Molnar
Project Team Leader:       Christopher R. Bennett              Antti Talvitie
ICR Team Leader:
ICR Primary Author:


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
 1. To promote trade and economic growth by improving access and lowering transport
costs for goods and passenger traffic moving along the east-West Highway from Baku to
Georgia, between Ganja and the town of Gazakh. 2. To improve the organization,
management, efficiency and maintenance practices of Azerbaijan's national road
administration (Renamed RTSD after the recent reorganization). 3. To improve the quality
of roads and transport services available to the low-income rural population served by the
East-West Highway and the tertiary road network connected to it.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
No change
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                            Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                              Revised
                                              approval                         Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                             documents)                        Target Years
                RTSD will introduce competitive tendering for periodic maintenance and new
Indicator 1 :
                construction
Value
                                            Competition                       Competition
quantitative or No competition exists
                                            introduced                        introduced
Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/28/2002                    10/31/2007                        12/31/2004
Comments
                 Competition was introduced for procurement of works once the project started.
(incl. %
                Achieved 100%.
achievement)
                Financing of RTSD increased annually by 10 percent (exclusive of Baku and
Indicator 2 :
                Nakhichevan)
Value
                                            10% per year                      10+% per year
quantitative or US$12 million
                                            increase                          increase
Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/28/2002                    10/31/2007                        12/31/2007
Comments
                 The road budget has increased substantially, much more than 10% annual rate.
(incl. %
                Achieved 100%.
achievement)
                PMS system is developed and used for economic analyses and prioritization of
Indicator 3 :
                road projects
Value
quantitative or No PMS system exists        PMS Operational                   PMS operational
Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/28/2002                    10/31/2007                        12/31/2003
Comments
                 PMS is operational however, not systematically used for prioritizing investments.
(incl. %
                Road data collection has not taken place annually. Achievement 50%
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Installation of quality control system for maintenance and civil works
Value
                No quality control system Quality control                     Quality control
quantitative or
                exists                      system in effect                  system developed
Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/28/2002                    10/31/2007                        07/15/2005
Comments         Final report and recommendations on the Quality Assurance System was delivered
(incl. %        in 2005. Efforts were made to introduce quality control system, but it was not
achievement) systematically adopted. Achievement 50%
Indicator 5 : Rolling Highway Management Program (HMP) adopted by RTSD
Value
                No planning program         HMP adopted by                    HMP adopted by
quantitative or
                exists                      RTSD                              RTSD
Qualitative)
Date achieved 02/28/2002                    10/31/2007                        07/23/2004
Comments         HMP program was prepared and three alternative scenarios were proposed for
(incl. %        ARS for decision. ARS funding has substantially increased since then and the
achievement) HMP program needs updating. Achievement 100%.
                Transport time along the 60kms of M2 Shamkir-Gazakh as a proxy to transport
Indicator 6 :
                costs (indicator suggested on October 06 by OPCS).
Value
quantitative or 60 minutes                  40 minutes                            40 minutes
Qualitative)
                                                                                  12/31/2007
Date achieved     02/28/2002                10/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %          The objective was achieved 100%
achievement)
                Impact on low income rural population measured through the number of people
Indicator 7 :
                benefiting from the project.
                                                                             Five rural roads
Value           none at appraisal                                           serving a population
                                           14,000
quantitative or (indicator suggested on                                     exceeding 14,000
                                           beneficiaries
Qualitative)    October 06 by OPCS)                                         people were
                                                                            improved.
Date achieved 02/28/2002                   09/30/2007                       9/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %         The objective was 100% achieved.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                                Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                                 Revised
                                                  approval                          Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                 documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Road rehabilitation is being completed in the agreed schedule
Value
                                            Road rehabilitation                   Road rehabilitation
(quantitative     Work has not started
                                            completed                             completed
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/28/2002                10/31/2007                            10/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Achievement 100%
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Rural roads maintenance contracts completed in accordance with the schedule
Value
                  No rural road contracts   Contracts
(quantitative                                                                     Contracts completed
                  have been done            completed
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     02/28/2002                10/31/2007                            12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %          Contracts were completed. Achievement 100%.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Review of Road User Charges
                                         The review has
Value                                                                       The review has been
                No information on RUC been completed
(quantitative                                                               completed and the
                exists                   and the report
or Qualitative)                                                             report published
                                         published
Date achieved 02/28/2002                 10/31/2007                         02/04/2004
Comments
(incl. %         The review was completed and the report was published. Achievement 100%.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Functional classification of the road network
Value             The current road
                                              The work has been                  The work has been
(quantitative     classification is old and
                                              completed                          completed
or Qualitative)   inadequate
Date achieved     02/28/2002                  10/31/2007                         07/15/2004
Comments
                   Functional classification study was completed and a proposal made to the
(incl. %
                  government. Decision is still pending.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Development of traffic safety plan
Value                                        Traffic safety plan
                  No traffic safety plan                                         Traffic safety plan
(quantitative                                has been
                  exists                                                         has been completed
or Qualitative)                              completed
Date achieved     02/28/2002                 10/31/2007                          02/06/2005
Comments
(incl. %          Traffic safety plan was completed as planned. Achievement 100%.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                      Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                                DO                             IP             Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                  (USD millions)
   1    06/28/2001              Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
   2    12/20/2001              Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory                     0.00
   3    06/18/2002              Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
   4    08/22/2002              Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.25
   5    12/30/2002              Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.25
   6    06/23/2003              Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      1.78
   7    12/04/2003              Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      2.64
   8    04/14/2004              Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      3.45
   9    11/03/2004              Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    10.27
  10    05/27/2005              Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    16.74
  11    08/02/2005              Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    18.80
  12    03/31/2006              Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    26.29
  13    08/28/2006              Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    30.07
  14    01/06/2007              Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    34.82
  15    05/16/2007              Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    38.08
  16    09/12/2007              Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    40.89
  17    03/22/2008              Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    44.93
  18    02/06/2009              Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    46.97


H. Restructuring (if any)

                         ISR Ratings at   Amount
                 Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
 Restructuring                                                          Reason for Restructuring &
                Approved                Restructuring
    Date(s)                                                                Key Changes Made
               PDO Change DO       IP      in USD
                                          millions
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO       IP      in USD
                                         millions
 05/24/2005                S       S         16.66   Introduction of Tovuz By-pass




I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
The Highway Project was the first IDA financed transport project in Azerbaijan that was
designed and prepared at a time in which the economy was rebounding after a sharp
decline in activity following independence in 1991. By the end of the 1990s, economic
growth was accelerating and placing substantial pressure on the inadequate road
infrastructure. Still it was estimated that above 60 percent of the population, with an
income per capita of about US$630 per year, was living in poverty. The government
strategy focused on promoting the growth of the non-oil sector to raise the income of the
poor. The main issues identified as priorities in the road sector in order to contribute to
the government strategy were: (i) a badly deteriorated road network with a large
percentage of the rural population without access to all-weather roads; (ii) serious
institutional weaknesses in road management; and (iii) insufficient funding for
sustainable maintenance and operation of the system. In particular:

A high percentage of the road network was in poor condition. A 1996 road condition
survey 1 estimated that 56 percent of the main road network was in a poor state of repair.
Due to insufficient funding, these roads had deteriorated even further by the time of
project identification and represented a major impediment for sustainable growth. The
East-West road link from Baku through Alyat to the Georgian border is the main access
route for entry and export of goods to and from Azerbaijan and its improvement was
considered (and continues to be considered) a key priority for the sustainability of
economic growth. Thus, improvement of the corridor became the project's central
component.

The sector institutions were weak and in a state of flux during project preparation.
Azyol, officially named the Azeravtoyol State Corporation, was an independent
government organization reporting directly to the Cabinet of Ministers. It had the overall
responsibility for the complete public road network excluding the road sections within the
cities, and its organizational structure had remained essentially unchanged since
independence As the incorporation and privatization of some of the road sector
organizations were only starting, there were virtually no local private contractors or
design consultants. The sector also lacked basic planning, budgeting, implementation
systems, and procedures that would ensure the efficient use of resources. Moreover, the
organization was unable to perform elemental functions since most of its funding went to
wages and very little to the roads.

The Government was receiving assistance from the European Commission TRACECA
(Transport Corridor Europe-Caucasus-Asia) Program for the establishment of a Ministry
of Transport (MOT) and for beginning the restructuring of Azyol, and it was recognized



1
    "Feasibility Study for Rehabilitation of Transit Roads in Azerbaijan" , Kocks Consult, 1996



                                                  1
that the process of transforming the road administration into a more efficient and
effective institution would require a change in culture and long term support. As it turned
out, during the early stages of project implementation (2003) the Government of
Azerbaijan (GOA) established the MOT, patterned after a European Union (EU) funded
study's recommendations that stressed the normative and overseeing role of the Ministry
(the client) and the production function of the road agency (the supplier). In the same
restructuring decision, Azyol lost its autonomy, and despite the advice of the Bank and
other donors, it became a department of MOT: the Road Transport Service Department.
More recently, the Department became a joint stock company: Azer Yol Servis (AYS)2.
However, because of the hierarchical structure of the government, the new arrangement
did little to increase the autonomy of AYS.

Funding of the sector was insufficient and unpredictable. It was clear that adequate
road maintenance needed a much higher level of financing. However, the increase had to
be gradual and phased with the institutional improvement of AYS. This phasing would
assure the good use of the funds. The Government's commitment to gradual increases of
funding for AYS was a covenant in the Credit Agreement (CA).

Poverty alleviation was at the center of the transport sector policy. The project was
expected to assist in poverty alleviation, both directly through employment creation
linked to the project activities and, indirectly, by stimulating private sector development.
Finally, the project was also to improve access to services and markets to the rural
communities served by the East-West Highway, the main target of investments under the
project.

The findings of a study funded by trust funds and carried out as part of project
preparation3 confirmed the expected poverty alleviation benefits of the project. The study
found that the area in which the project is located had a per capita income of only 62
percent of Azerbaijan's average. It identified both direct and indirect potential benefits for
the poor near the local road works. The direct benefits included improved accessibility of
goods and services such as health, education, and other social services, as well as lower
prices for goods imported into the region because of lower transport costs. The project
included funds for follow-up studies to be carried out during project implementation to
monitor its poverty impact.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)
The project's development objectives as described in the CA were:




2
    Throughout the report the road organization will be referred to as AYS, its current acronym.

3
    "Poverty Assessment and Poverty Alleviation in Azerbaijan's Central Corridor", 2000.



                                                  2
   (i)     To promote trade and economic growth by improving access and lowering
           transport costs for goods and passenger traffic moving along the East-West
           Highway.
   (ii)    To improve the organization, management, efficiency and maintenance
           practices of Azerbaijan's national road administration.
   (iii)   To improve the quality of transport services available to trade and commerce,
           the road users, and the low income rural population served by the East-West
           Highway and the tertiary road network connected to it.

The PDO are worded slightly different in the CA and the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD). Item (i) in the PAD specifies that improvements are for traffic moving "along the
East-West Highway from Baku to Georgia, between Ganja and the town of Gazakh." In
the case of item (iii) the PAD reads, "To improve the quality of transport services
available to the low income rural population served by the East-West Highway and the
tertiary road network connected to it."

Key development outcome/impact indicators to measure achievements were:

   (i)     AYS's capacity to manage Azerbaijan's road network and allocate its budget
           based on economic and equity criteria;
   (ii)    Increased road maintenance carried out each year, improvements in the
           quality of this work, and reduced unit costs for operations carried out by
           AYS; and
   (iii)   Successful upgrading of the road between Ganja and the town of Gazakh, with
           commensurate increase in traffic and reductions in vehicle operating costs as
           derived from the improvements in road roughness and reduced travel time on
           the road.

Annex 1 of the PAD contains a more extensive list of Key Performance Indicators,
including:

   (i)    Road upgrading is completed on schedule and with contracts let on a
          competitive basis using private contractors.
   (ii) Rural roads contracts are completed.
   (iii) The construction units are privatized and AYS direct hire staff is reduced.
   (iv) Road User Charges Study is completed.
   (v) Review of road classification is completed.
   (vi) A pavement management system (HDM) is installed and used for the economic
          analysis and for prioritizing the use of funds for road maintenance and road
          construction.
   (vii) Design and maintenance standards are improved to meet international practice.
   (viii) A quality control system is put in place for supervising the contracted works as
          well as the (routine maintenance) works carried out on a force account basis.
   (ix) An improved cost accounting system for AYS is put in place.
   (x) A national road safety plan is completed.
   (xi) Performance indicators for the road network and AYS are defined.



                                           3
   (xii) A five-year rolling road management plan is prepared.
   (xiii) Financing for AYS has increased steadily each year.


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification
The PDOs were not changed. Midway through project implementation, at the suggestion
of the Bank's Operations Policy and Services Department (OPCS), the indicators were
strengthened to include: (i) reducing travel time on the project road from 60 to 40
minutes (as a proxy for reduced costs); and (ii) establishing as 14,000 the number of low-
income population expected to benefit from the project. These changes sought to
strengthen the relationship of outputs and outcomes.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The PAD identifies the principal target populations as: (i) the road users, consisting of
local and international shippers, farmers, manufacturers, and the oil industry; (ii) the low
income people living in the area served by the road and needing markets for their
products and access to social facilities; and (iii) the road contractors and their labor force
that need a stable source of income and a competitive market to become a viable industry.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
Annex 2 of the PAD lists the project components as follows:

Project Component 1 - US$43.84 million
Reconstruction and upgrading of selected portions of the existing East-West Highway
from Ganja to the town of Gazakh (94 km). Sections to be improved included:

       (i)     Ganja (from west junction of By-Pass) to Shemkir/Deliler
       (ii)    Shemkir/Deliler to Tovuz
       (iii)   Tovuz to Agstafa 25.5 km
       (iv)    Agstafa to the vicinity of Gazakh 7.0 km

The works component also includes US$250,000 for demonstrations of alternative
methods for improving rural roads. This would be implemented through five pilot
operations to experiment with alternative approaches to rural road maintenance, with
maximum involvement of local authorities, communities, contractors and consultants.
Community participation would be sought in planning the works and the implementation,
which was to emphasize labor-intensive techniques for carrying out the works at low cost
in ways that and can be scaled up and replicated in future operations.

Project Component 2 - US$3.58 million
Institutional strengthening of the national road organization included: (i) technical
support and training necessary for AYS's restructuring and modernization over a three-
year period; (ii) the engagement of qualified consultants to monitor the poverty impact of
the project, including both short and longer term employment effects and the impact on
investment in the area served by the improved road sections; (iii) a study of the adequacy
of existing road user charges and possible improvements in these charges; (iv) an


                                              4
environmental specialist to work with AYS on the environmental aspects of the project;
and (v) the cost of independent auditors for the audit of AYS and of the project accounts
(US$1.90 million). Force account operations for periodic maintenance were to be
gradually converted to a contracting basis. Introduction of maintenance by contract for
periodic and routine maintenance, the latter on an experimental basis.

Technical support would be carried out by a qualified international consulting firm with
expertise in road organization and operations and would include: (i) reviewing and
updating the classification of roads for management and financing purposes; (ii) use of
economic analysis for evaluating priorities for the use of road funds for maintenance and
new construction; (iii) updating and systematizing the traffic, road and bridge inventories
and the establishment of Road Data Bank and a Pavement Management System; (iv)
updating AYS's design and maintenance standards; (v) the establishment of a quality
control system for evaluating the contracted works as well as the works still carried out
on a force account basis; (vi) the establishment of a sound cost accounting system; (vii)
preparation of a road safety plan; (viii) definition of performance indicators for the road
network and AYS; and (ix) the development of a methodology and the preparation of a
five year rolling Road Management Program.

This component would also include office and laboratory equipment and vehicles needed
for upgrading AYS's operations (US$0.48 million) and the cost of providing qualified
consultants for the supervision of the civil works component of the project at an
estimated cost of US$1.20 million. The latter would be financed by EU-TRACECA,
which had already provided financing for the preparation of the final design and bidding
documents

Project Component 3 - US$0.58 million
This would include support for the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), including salaries
and payrolls costs for the staff, and operating costs including office supplies,
telecommunications, and electricity, half of which would be financed by EU-TRACECA
(US$0.40 million). It would include technical support for the installation of a project
accounting system and for a procurement specialist to assist the PIU in implementing the
World Bank procurement procedures, to be financed by EU-TRACECA (US$0.10
million), and office equipment and vehicles needed for the PIU to carry out its work
(US$0.08 million).

1.6 Revised Components
In March 2005 the project was restructured with an amendment submitted to the Board
of Executive Directors on a non-objection basis to reallocate project savings to the
construction of a by-pass around the city of Tovuz. These additional works, with an
estimated cost of about US$10 or US$11 million including contingencies, were to be
financed by surplus credit funds arising from savings in the original works and from the
depreciation of the US Dollar with respect to the Special Drawing Rights (SDR), which
increased loan funds in dollar terms from the original US$40 million to US$46.97 million.
In addition, later in the project implementation period, funds were diverted towards the
preparation and supervision of a follow-on project. This decision precluded the



                                            5
implementation of the study to assess the poverty alleviation impact of the project-
financed rural roads work.

1.7 Other significant changes
The inclusion of the Tovuz by-pass required a change in the environmental category of
the project from B to A since the by-pass required substantial land acquisition and the
displacement of about 200 families. The closing date was extended for the first time from
June 30, 2005 to October 31, 2007 to allow for tendering and execution of the works. By
April 21, 2007 the civil works contracts were signed but works had been delayed due to
protracted and ineffective land acquisition. Works started only in July 2007 and the
closing date was extended for a second time to January 31, 2009. The ICR closing date
was extended to September 30, 2009 to allow sufficient time for the Borrower to review
and comment on the draft ICR.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The project design reflected the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of November
29, 1999 (Report No. 19892) for Azerbaijan, which focused on promoting the growth of
the non-oil sector to raise the income of the poor through improving the quality of the
infrastructure and its management. Within this framework, project design was in line with
the general principles governing these types of road projects, i.e. developing adequate
sector governance, committing the government to adequate funding of road maintenance,
ensuring increased private sector participation and development and, because of the
strong weight purportedly given to poverty alleviation, an effort to improve accessibility
to markets and services in rural areas.

In retrospect, one might question the wisdom of a technical assistance program that
encompassed most issues in the sector, even when the expected outcome for some of
them was only producing a study. The lack of absorptive capacity of AYS,
notwithstanding the implementation of a follow on Bank-financed project and substantial
support from other donors, continues being an issue. It was certainly much more so at the
time this project was being prepared.

The pilot character of the rural roads component of the project was not fully developed in
the PAD. The component was allocated a small amount of money, and eventually, some
of it was redirected to other uses. Neither the key performance indicators nor the Credit
Agreement included explicit provisions to secure the pilot character of the component,
which eventually became a straightforward improvement of five rural roads.

On the other hand, most aspects of the project were appropriate and within the experience
and understanding of the client, including: the selection of the project's road works in one
of the country's most important transport corridors; adoption of new procurement rules
and contracted works; recasting the supervision of road works under contracts, training of
staff in their application and in contract administration; and training Azerbaijan
contractors in bid preparation, cost control, management, and quality control.



                                             6
The preparation team recognized that the wide-ranging institutional concerns addressed
under the project entailed considerable risks. In particular, the PAD identified as
substantial risks: (i) the possibility that the reorganization and institutional strengthening
of AYS may not be effective so that it may not be able to carry increased amount of
quality maintenance; and (ii) the government may be reluctant to carry out the
commercialization of AYS. To mitigate these risks project design sought to take into
account the main lessons from other Bank projects that assisted in the transformation
from a Soviet-style road administration to one appropriate for a market economy. These
lessons consistently pointed to the need for a strong government commitment to address
problems of institutional weaknesses. These lessons were, at least formally, incorporated
into project design through a government Policy Letter with a fairly detailed set of dated
actions to achieve the institutional objectives which, in general, coincided with the key
performance indicators in the PAD's Annex 1.

In sum, the road works--95 percent of the loan--and the consultancies relating to the
implementation of the works were well thought-out and were implemented with
motivation. Their quality of entry was good. The institutional component dealt with good
issues, but there is a question about the right entry point and timing to address them given
the institutional setting during preparation. Finally, the rural roads component of the
project was not fully developed and its pilot objective faded away during implementation,
when priority reverted to infrastructure development.

2.2 Implementation
Ganja-Shemkir Road Section.
Contract award for these road works suffered some initial delays due to the unfamiliarity
of the PIU and the government on Bank's procurement procedures that required
reevaluation of the bids, a process that took more than six months. Construction finally
started in early 2003 and its implementation took place rather smoothly, with only minor
changes in the design arising from the need to replace inadequate culverts and bridges.
The works were completed in mid-2005 at a cost of US$7.5 million, about 17 percent
below appraisal estimates.

Shemkir-Gazakh Road Section.
The Shemkir-Gazakh road section was divided in four contracts. The EU financed the
design of the works. The actual contract prices provided a savings of approximately
US$17 million, including contingencies, from the original engineering estimates.
However, prior to the commencement of the works, it was agreed that there was a need
for substantial changes in design. Overall, these changes reduced the savings from about
US$17 million to about US$10 million and produced delays of six to eight months from
its original schedule. Delays were also caused by technical problems related to the
suitability of the materials on which the road was built and the contractor's poor traffic
management. At the end, pressure to accelerate the completion of the works had some
impact on its overall quality. Nevertheless, the final quality of the works was found to be
generally acceptable and IDA's missions, to help avoid the same problems in the future,
prepared very detailed recommendations on the preparation of bidding documents and
TORs for design and supervision consultants to be used for future projects. Road works



                                              7
were finally completed in late 2006, almost two years behind schedule at total cost of
US$30.8 million, as compared to the appraisal estimate of US$34.4 million.

Tovuz Bypass
The amendment to add this section to the project was sent to the Board of Executive
Directors and approved on March 17, 2005, conditional to meeting IDA's disclosure
requirements. Because the Tovuz bypass was assigned an environmental category A and
would require the acquisition of private land, an Environment Impact Assessment and the
Land Acquisition Plan (LAP) were prepared, and were considered satisfactory to IDA.
By mid-2005, procurement of works was almost completed with bids within cost
estimates. The start of works, however, was not allowed due to a significant delay in the
implementation of the LAP caused by delays in the preparation of the necessary
documentation required under the national law in property acquisition. Works eventually
started in 2007 for sections where land acquisitions had been completed. Land acquisition
was finally completed in early 2008. By then, it was clear that increases in costs due to
changes in design would deplete credit funds and require increased government funding.
The credit was fully disbursed by its closing date of January 31, 2009 and all work on the
by-pass is expected to be completed by the end of October 2009 at a total cost of
US$14.9 million.

Local Roads
This component was implemented at a total cost of US$0.39 million, as compared to the
US$0.25 estimated at appraisal. Identification of the first two local roads to be improved
under the project took place swiftly and efficiently, with a strong focus on beneficiary
participation and an overriding criterion: that the villages selected had very limited access
to markets and showed potential to expanded economic activity, especially in agriculture.
In both cases representatives of the villages identified the road as their main priority and
expressed readiness to allocate maintenance funds once road became maintainable.
Consultants were retained for developing specifications to be later used for bidding and
to estimate the cost of future upkeep. The latter served as the basis of a written agreement
with the village committee on their plan to maintain the roads once completed. Contracts
for an additional four local roads were awarded in mid-2005 and works were completed
within schedule.

Institutional Development
This component was designed to achieve different objectives and its implementation
rested on a major consulting contract with the Finnroad/Dornier team at a total cost of
US$1.8 million. The consultancy work entailed several tasks which included: (i) the
review and recommendations for technical pavement standards; (ii) the review and
recommendations for the functional classification of roads; (iii) a study of road user
charges; (iv) the development of a corporate plan; (v) the preparation of a traffic safety
program; (vi) the development of a road data bank and a pavement management system;
and (vii) the development of performance indicators for AYS to manage its road
program. The consultancy contract was implemented smoothly and within its planned
time schedule. In general, the technical assistance served to acquaint sector officials with
the general principles and topics of modern road sector management. While the



                                             8
recommendations of studies were partially adopted, AYS needs to continue
implementation of the proposed reforms for further modernization of the road sector
management.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
The outcome indicators used to monitor achievements under the project are described in
section 1.2 of this report. They comprise a series of outputs that could in general be
measured through the PIUs quarterly progress reports tracking the process of bidding,
contracting and completion of contracts. The institutional component was mostly
monitored through the completion of reviews and studies and/or the installation of
systems such as the PMS and the installation of a quality control system for maintenance
and civil works. In 2006, in the context of the project's mid-term review, at the
suggestion of OPCS the indicators were strengthened to include (i) reducing travel time
on the project road from 60 to 40 minutes (as a proxy for reduced costs) and (ii)
establishing as 14,000 the number of low income population expected to benefit from the
project.

The choice of indicators was reasonable. They allowed adequate measurement of the
level of achievement of the PDO. The only exception is that of the rural roads component
which had only the expected outcome of "completing the civil work contracts", although
the subsequently suggested OPCS indicator of measuring the rural population benefitted
by the project provided a better output to outcome relation. The original idea to include
an ex-post study to measure impacts on poverty was sound but it was not implemented.

 2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
As already mentioned, the project became an environmental category A with the
inclusion of the Tovuz by-pass, a component that required land acquisition. The process
of completing the land acquisition was much slower than anticipated and both the
government and the Bank agreed, judiciously, not to permit the starting of the works until
the process was completed. The request of the State Land and Cartographical Committee
and the Local Land Commission for a second topographical survey to confirm the first
survey carried out initially by the consultants Finnroad caused serious delays. Once the
second survey confirmed the findings of the first one, the Land Acquisition Department
of AYS went back to get the landowners' signature to certify the transfer of titles, only to
find the majority of them refusing to sign at the price agreed upon at the time the LAP
was prepared a few years before. Lack of land price data and the difficulties attached to
the evaluation of property values further hampered the process. AYS hired a private firm
who re-assessed property values. The landowners were offered alternative and
considerably elevated compensation based on the assessment, which all land owners
eventually agreed. All needed land was acquired and works started in mid 2007.

The delay led to AYS requesting the Bank to assist them in reviewing legal and
administrative procedures in Azerbaijan with regard to property acquisition, assessing
international practice and proposing suggestions for streamlining the process. Consultants
hired under the Highway II Project eventually prepared a draft Expropriation Law. Bank
legal advisors reviewing the draft considered it one of the best laws in the former Soviet



                                             9
Union with regard to property acquisition. The draft Law is now under discussion in
Parliament. It is considered that the adoption of the new law would help ensure the fair
and expedient property expropriation that is needed for large-scale infrastructure
development.

The project started with serious procurement problems, which caused consideration of
possible misprocurement and resulted in a brief rating of the project as unsatisfactory.
Once the Bank's procurement policies were fully understood by the government the
project implementation became smoother. The procurement capacity of the PIU was very
weak during the first three or four years of project implementation. For most of the initial
implementation period there was only one Procurement Specialist with limited
knowledge of English. A Procurement Review carried out in 2004 identified the need for
further training and identified problems that eventually led to a tightening of the
procurement supervision. One such problem was that the filing system relied mostly on
traditional hard copy files, and not all the documents sampled for post review could be
retrieved. The PIU is now working to implement an electronic filing system.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
Most of the project-funded investments in the East-West corridor have been completed
satisfactorily and are expected to be well-maintained. The Tovuz by-pass road is
completed and the bridge will be completed by the end of October 2009. The future
sustainability of the investments is supported by adequate funding for road maintenance,
one of the main legal commitments of the government under the CA. In fact, maintenance
allocations have been well above the agreed amounts. They grew from 8.4 million AZN
in 2002 to 145 million AZN in 2009. Problems other than funding, (i.e. ensuring the
efficiency and cost-effectiveness of the resources) continue being the subject of follow-
on operations. With funding from the Highway II Project, AYS is advancing in the
modernization of a Road Data Bank, the revision of maintenance norms to replace the old
soviet standards, and the improvement of road planning and budgeting. Undoubtedly, the
proposed Highway III will continue to address these long-term institutional development
issues. Furthermore, other donors are working on strengthening the regional offices of
AYS.

In addition to the above-mentioned operations, the government of Azerbaijan very
recently requested Bank assistance for a more focused effort to increase institutional
capacity in the transport and water sectors. The request recognized that institutional
components many times tend to be "diluted" when part of large investment projects. Thus,
a Public Investment Capacity Development Project addressing not only the training needs
of AYS but also making inroads into academia and the private sector was prepared and
was approved by the Board on June 24, 2009. Targeting the new generation of
professionals for the dissemination of modern asset management principles should
eventually lead to the change in culture that the Highway Project sought.




                                            10
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The project development objective was consistent with the Bank's assistance strategy and
Azerbaijan's strategy for sustainable growth and poverty alleviation. The project's main
component, the East-West road corridor is the lifeline of Azerbaijan's non-oil trade. By
providing support to the government in upgrading key portions of the East-West corridor,
the project helped to promote trade and economic growth.

The institutional component was also appropriate although, considering the very
anachronistic and weak state of the road administration during project preparation and the
early stages of implementation some of its elements were introduced too early to be truly
of value and effective.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

First Development Objective: To promote trade and economic growth by improving
access and lowering transport costs for goods and passenger traffic moving along the
East-West Highway.

This development objective was fully achieved. The Ganja-Shemkir and Shemkir-Gazakh
road sections have been improved and are serving the intended beneficiaries. Travel
times, a proxy for transport costs, were reduced by 33% on the M2 Shamkir-Gazakh. The
satisfactory return on the investments confirms that the road improvements had a positive
impact in lowering transport costs and thus supporting trade and economic growth.

Second Development Objective: To improve the organization, management, efficiency
and maintenance practices of Azerbaijan's national road administration.

This development objective was achieved. The project had an ambitious and broad
institutional development program. The project did: (i) increase the role of the private
sector in road construction, particularly since most of the major road investments in the
country are being financed by international organizations; (ii) provide a study of Road
User Charges; (iii) raise the government awareness of the need for a new functional
classification for all public roads although the expectations of starting the process of
change to a new classification during the life of the project were not fulfilled; (iv) put in
place a Pavement Management System although it is not yet fully used as a management
tool; (v) review and made recommendations on design and maintenance standards to
meet international practice; (vi) put in place a quality control system for supervising the
contracted works as well as the (routine maintenance) works carried out on a force
account basis; (vii) improve cost accounting; (viii) prepare a National Road Safety Plan;
(ix) define performance indicators for the road network and AYS; (x) prepare a five year
rolling road management plan. In addition, financing for AYS has been increased steadily
each year well beyond the original plan.




                                             11
These achievements were the initial steps in the ongoing and gradual process of
institutional development. IDA's involvement through this and the subsequent project
was instrumental in introducing in the road sector key concepts of project management
capacity, best practice safeguard measures in order to mitigate social and environmental
impact, critical design issues, transparent procurement procedures, and a vehicle for
dialogue on policy and institutional development.

Third Development Objective: To improve the quality of transport services available to
trade and commerce, the road users, and the low-income rural population served by the
East-West Highway and the tertiary road network connected to it.

This broadly worded objective relates to the expected outcome of the local roads
component, which fully achieved its objective of improving five local roads, which were
selected with active community participation. The population in the communities served
by these roads exceeds the 14,000 inhabitants. The impact of this improvement in the life
of the rural population has not been formally assessed. However, the importance that the
communities gave ex-ante to the proposed investments suggests that the road
improvements did enhance the quality of life of the rural beneficiaries.

3.3 Efficiency
The ex-post economic evaluation of the four road sections rehabilitated under the project
confirms the expected merits of the investments. The evaluation was done using the
Highway Development and Management Model (HDM-4), which simulates life cycle
conditions and costs and provides economic decision criteria for road construction and
maintenance activities. The project yields a Net Present Value (NPV) of US$47.0 million
and an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 35 percent. These results exceed the appraisal
expectations of a NPV of US$9.0 million and an EER of 23.1 percent. The better than
expected returns result from actual investment costs about 12 percent below appraisal
estimates and traffic levels in 2008 about 10 percent above appraisal estimates. Details of
the economic analysis are included in Annex 3.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
This rating derives from the high relevance of most project objectives, the choice of the
road corridor to be rehabilitated, and the reaching of most of the indicator values chosen
to measure the achievement of the PDO. The road corridor was rehabilitated as planned;
funding for sector maintenance has been substantially increased; the road administration
was restructured and partially modernized; there were tangible achievements in
strengthening institutional capacity; and the economic returns of the project-financed
investments are highly satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
No poverty impact assessment was carried out. However, the project did improve five
rural roads serving a population of over 14,000 so it did have a positive impact on low
income rural populations.



                                            12
(b)Institutional Change/Strengthening
Transforming AYS into a modern road agency appears consistently as one of the main
objectives of the government and is the subject of several components of the
internationally financed road projects. AYS is now, in theory, organized along functional
lines, with an investment department and a maintenance department. In practice, however,
the investment department is responsible for the road works financed through bi-lateral
and multi-lateral financial organizations (IFIs). A PIU financed by IFIs to oversee the
technical and fiduciary soundness of their projects supports the department. The
maintenance department, in spite of its name, carries out investment, rehabilitation and
maintenance works financed solely through the budget. Expanding the standards and
criteria used for the internationally financed works to the whole network and embedding
in the institution an integrated concept of life cost cycles for road management is a work
in progress that will undoubtedly dominate for many years the Bank's relation with AYS.
This project was a good beginning.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
There were no other unintended outcomes or impacts

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
As already discussed, the project included funds for a survey/study of potential
beneficiaries of the rural roads component, but the funds were diverted towards the
preparation of the Highway II project.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low
The overall sustainability of the institutional development and the substantial
infrastructure improvements supported by the credit appears as very likely. The
substantive IDA program for the road sector of Azerbaijan will provide the necessary
continuity to achieve progress in areas that were only initiated under this project but
require a long-term approach. The ongoing Highway II project and the proposed
Highway III follow up on issues such as planning and the full adoption of EU country
standards in road design, actually ensuring a better use of scarce resources and thus an
increased likelihood that the expected benefits of the infrastructure improvements will
materialize as planned.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
Project preparation was thorough and effective in those areas in which IDA was able to
rely on an in-depth knowledge of the country needs, particularly on the physical
improvements of the sector infrastructure. In the case of the institutional development
components project preparation, although meticulous and highly professional was
somewhat optimistic in terms of the aims and proposed targets of the project and the



                                           13
actual intentions and capabilities of the government with respect to the expected
achievements. Much of this optimism can be attributed more to a problem of report
writing (i.e. with a tendency to inflate possible impacts) rather than of project design.
Switching to funding from IDA (rather than the Bank) during preparation appears to have
influenced the weight given to rural poverty and rural infrastructure in the PAD
presentation. Yet it was clear from the outset that rural roads was not a major objective of
the project and the PAD's discourse was not accompanied by a solid rural roads
component. The potential impact of the project on growth and the clear link between
growth and poverty alleviation would have been a sufficient rationale for the project.
These comments however refer to matters of form rather than substance. From the
substantive point of view, the project was well thought and each one of its components,
including the rural roads one, adequately addressed the needs of the sector.

(b) Quality of Supervision
 Rating: Satisfactory
IDA's missions visited Azerbaijan regularly twice and thrice a year to assess progress in
the implementation of the project and prepare the follow-on project. The supervision
team engaged in candid and enriching exchange of ideas with government officials and
made a commendable effort to convey the benefits of modern road construction
technologies and state of the art technical designs. Supervision missions also were highly
proactive in ensuring the government participation and interaction with the technical
assistance consultants, particularly to address problems in the quality of the products that
the latter delivered. The successful inclusion of the Tovuz by-pass and the complications
it involved in terms of fiduciary demands is an example of the professionalism and
dedication of the supervision team. The ICR, based on the supervision reports, finds that
a more balanced consideration of the civil works and institutional aspects of the project in
evaluating progress and achievements could have enhanced the quality of the supervision.
On the other hand, missions paid close attention to financial management and
procurement and took corrective actions to provide for learning and to ensure that IDA's
safeguards were diligently observed.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The satisfactory rating for overall IDA's performance results from: (i) the highly
satisfactory implementation of the project's infrastructure component with an acceptable
ERR; (ii) satisfactory ratings for IDA's performance ensuring a reasonable quality at
entry for the first road project in Azerbaijan; and (iii) project supervision that not only
successfully established a productive dialogue with the government that is the basis for
the ongoing partnership for improving road management, but also when the opportunity
arose acted diligently to introduce a challenging new component to the project (the Tovuz
by-pass). This highly satisfactory implementation performance has only been slightly
moderated by the lack of compliance with the pilot spirit of the rural roads component,
which, although a minor one, should probably have been redefined during project
implementation.




                                            14
5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The Government took active interest in the project, especially its civil works components,
throughout the period of execution. The central government agencies provided
satisfactory support for the project, and worked cooperatively with IDA to fix problems
to achieve results agreed in the CA. This is particular true of the cooperation necessary
for complying with the substantive environmental requirements of the Tovuz by-pass.
Funding for road sector maintenance increased well beyond the levels agreed during
preparation. In general, funding for project execution was satisfactory. The government
implemented the "letter" of the project with diligence and was open to exchange ideas on
many issues for which solutions are not always obvious and for which consultants, IDA
staff and local authorities offered differing views. Moreover, the government went well
beyond the legal requirement in providing funding for road maintenance. Future projects
should seek a more proactive government role in the implementation of the road map
towards AYS modernization developed under this project.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The implementing agency (AYS and its PIU) had a steep learning curve on issues of
procurement and project management. Initial delays in staffing the PIU with
professionals acceptable to IDA, inordinate time in processing bid evaluations, and
proposing contract awards to other than the lowest evaluated bidder, were part of the
problems that brought for a very short period of time an unsatisfactory rating to project
implementation. However, once the initial difficulties were overcome, AYS was eager to
implement the civil works and technical assistance contracts financed under the project,
and to profit from those sound engineering advices brought from IDA and the
consultants' experts. AYS was willing to try new technologies and accept new ways of
doing things in those cases in which the benefits were self evident, but was reluctant to
shed certain ideas inherited from the old Soviet system (e.g. standards). AYS was ready
to participate in reviewing, commenting, attending related presentations and workshops
on the several documents produced as part of the several tasks of the technical assistance
component, actively ensuring that the final product was acceptable. However, it was not
necessarily convinced that the consultants' recommendations, particularly those aiming to
changes in culture towards efficiency and transparency, were a priority. The rather
smooth implementation of the contracts financed under the project should be attributed,
to an important extent, to AYS and the strong collaboration of the PIU.

 (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. This is based on the ratings of
the implementing agency, the fact that the project outcome is satisfactory and is deemed
sustainable thanks to the Borrower's commitment to road maintenance, and the
possibility that the less than optimum performance on institutional development might
partially be the result of excessively high expectations.



                                           15
6. Lessons Learned

The design and implementation of projects in the road sector should give equal or more
weight to the issues of improving the effectiveness of the government's investment
program than to the issue of quantity of expenditures. There appears to be a marked
emphasis during project implementation on funding issues, disbursement rates and
contract execution of the civil works under the project. This is clearly reflected in
supervision reports and letters to the Borrower. However, improvements to the
effectiveness of investments (e.g. planning, programming, road management indicators)
generally did not receive the same attention and were mostly relegated to the discussions
of delays in implementing a contract in the technical assistance component. These
effectiveness issues involve substantial changes in the institutional culture which seldom
originate within the road agency, weaknesses should be brought to the attention of major
stakeholders (e.g. Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economic Development, users, etc.)
who might have an interest in improving the overall situation.

The Bank is a strong position to support the evolution of AYS: (i) it has a substantive
ongoing and planned road lending program that permits a necessary long-term gradual
approach; (ii) it has developed through the years a constructive dialogue with the GOA
based on confidence and mutual respect; (iii) it is part of a donor's community with
whom there is a satisfactory level of coordination; and (iv) it has developed, through the
implementation of this and the follow on Highway II Project, a good understanding of the
country's institutions, incentives, policies and culture. The Bank should consider bringing
this unique position to work in future operations with the help of a more holistic approach,
involving stakeholders within and outside AYS.

The bank should develop a strategic methodology to tackle the different problems
slowing down the shift from Soviet times to modern road management. In particular:

       Problems with institutional capacity should require a long-term program of
       staffing, training and career development with clearly stated short, medium and
       long-term targets. AYS and the Bank should agree on the best systems of training
       delivery and its implementation should be a key component of future operations.
       The subject of the cultural and generational gaps affecting the pace of reform
       requires an integral partnership of the public and private sectors and academia.
       Future road engineers and practitioners should be exposed to new ideas, develop
       problem-solving capacity and decision making abilities. The Bank should look at
       best practices in these types of partnerships and should consider incorporating in
       future operations the support for these activities.

The project is an excellent example of the benefits derived from a high level of flexibility
in project implementation. The Banks decision to include in the project the construction
of the Tovuz by-pass involved a higher level of risk in terms of the complexity of the
civil works financed under the project. Nevertheless the risks were approached with the
utmost conviction and professionalism by both the Borrower and the Bank and the result
was not only a substantial improvement to the countrys road network but also to the


                                            16
legal and regulatory framework of land acquisition. Similarly, the use of further savings
to finance the preparation and supervision of a follow-on project ensured not only an
effective use of the available funds, but facilitated implementation of future projects.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
See Additional Annex 7. The task team supports the Borrower's comments.

(b) Cofinanciers
The cost of the PIU was partially financed during the initial stages of the project by the
EU.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
See Additional Annex 8.




                                             17
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                    Actual/Latest
                               Appraisal Estimate                     Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                 (USD millions)                         Appraisal
                                                       millions)
REHABILITATION OF EAST-
                                                                    50% above appraisal
WEST HIGHWAY FROM                      37.89               56.70*
                                                                         estimate
GANJA TO GAZAKH
INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING AND
                                                                    69% above appraisal
REORGANIZATION OF AYS                   3.58                6.06**
                                                                         estimate
AND SUPERVISION OF THE
CIVIL WORKS
RURAL ROADS
                                                                    68% above appraisal
MAINTENANCE PILOT                       0.25                0.42
                                                                         estimate
CONTRACTS
ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT
                                                                       401% above
TO THE PROJECT                          0.58                2.33***
                                                                     appraisal estimate
MANAGEMENT UNIT

            Total Base Line Cost            42.30                 65.51
Physical Contingencies                        3.80                  0.00                   0.00
Price Contingencies                          1.90                  0.00            0.00
             Total Project Costs            48.00                 65.51

* Includes US$14.5 million for the construction of the Tovuz by-pass

** Includes preparation and supervision of the Tovuz by-pass and of preparation activities for the
Highway II Project.

*** Includes US$0.57 million in vehicles and laboratory equipment for AYS. EU financed
US$1.5 million of the PIU costs

(b) Financing
                                                        Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                         Type of         Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
           Source of Funds
                                       Cofinancing         (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                         millions)   millions)
                                                                                62% above
Borrower                                              6.50         17.04
                                                                                appraisal
EC: Tech. Assistance for CIS -
                                                      1.50           1.50          As appraised
TACIS
International Development                                                          15% above
                                                      40.00          46.97
Association (IDA)                                                                  appraisal




                                               18
Annex 2. Outputs by Component


            Component                                 Output                                Comment

I. Improvement of selected sections     Ganja-Shemkir road upgraded (21
of the East-West Highway using          km)
competitive procurement and
improved designed standards             Shemkir-Gazakh Road Section
                                        upgraded (73 km)

                                        Tovuz by-pass built                   The by-pass, not in the original
                                                                              project description, is in the process
                                                                              of being completed with government
                                                                              funds.

II. Completion of five rural roads      Five contracts were completed:        The concept of "pilot" of this
pilot contracts                         -Rehabilitation of Chuhuryurd-        component was not clearly developed
                                        Qizmeydan (13 km)                     in the PAD or the CA. The roads
                                        -Rehabilitation of Poladli-Chay       were rehabilitated but there were not
                                        Yekekhana (14 km)                     provisions for disseminating the
                                        -Rehabilitation of Altiagac-Yarimca   "pilot" innovations, if any.
                                        (8 km)
                                        -Rehabilitation of Anvar
                                        Mammadkhanli-Turkend-Chiyni road
                                        (7 km)
                                        -Rehabilitation of Rustam Aliyev-
                                        Plankend-Chalburun road (7 km)




III. Reorganization of AZIOL/RTSD
completed and functioning
 -    Construction Units privatized     -    Partially achieved               Most major construction and
      and RSTD direct hire staff                                              rehabilitation is financed by
      reduced                                                                 international donors and carried out
                                                                              by contract. The maintenance
                                                                              department of RSTD still carries out
                                                                              some government-funded
                                                                              construction by force account.


-    Road User Charge study             -    Done
     completed
-    Review of road classification is   -    Done
     completed
-    A pavement management              -    Partially achieved               The system is installed and
     system (HDM) is installed and                                            operational. However, it is not used
     used for economic analysis and                                           in a systematic way.
     for the prioritization of use of
     funds for road maintenance and
     new construction
-    Design and maintenance             -    Not achieved                     Design and maintenance standards
     standards are improved to meet                                           were reviewed by consultants but
     international practices                                                  RSTD continues using the old Soviet
                                                                              standards.

-    A quality control system is put    Done
     in place for supervising the
     contracted works as well as the



                                                        19
    (routine maintenance) works
    carried out on a force account
    basis
-   An improved cost accounting       Done
    system for RSTD is put in place
-   A National Road Safety Plan is    Done
    completed
-   Performance indicators for the    Done
    road network and RSTD are
    defined
-   A five-year rolling road          Done
    management plan is prepared
-   Financing for RSTD is             Done
    increased steadily each year




                                             20
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The main financial issue affecting the project was the substantial devaluation of the US
Dollar with respect to SDRs that took place during the implementation period. This
variation in currency values increased the availability of funds in Dollar terms from the
original US$40.0 million to US$46.9 million. This "windfall" had the effect of reducing
the Dollar cost of the ongoing projects, thus enhancing its economic viability, and of
generating surplus funds that were allocated to the construction of the Tovuz by-pass.

The ex-post analyses of the four East-West road sections included in the project were
analyzed based on benefits resulting from savings in road user costs from improvement
of pavement roughness and road design. The economic analysis follows the same
methodology used by Kocks Consult in the original project feasibility study financed by
the EU, and was performed by the PIU in AYS with the use of the HDM model. Project
costs are actual contract costs and exclude taxes and duties, including VAT. Savings in
passenger travel time, one of the important benefits from road improvements, were based
on per capita incomes that were increased by 40 percent above nominal per capita figures
to adjust for under-recording of economic transactions (this is in line with World Bank
estimates of under-recorded transactions for Azerbaijan). Traffic levels are based on
traffic counts made in 2008, with projected increases of 2 percent until 2010, 8 percent
until 2015 and 5 percent thereafter. The growth in traffic is based on goods traffic growth
in line with Real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and passenger traffic based on the
growth of population, per capita GDP and an assumed income elasticity of demand.

The Net Present Value (NPV) of US$47.0 million was calculated based on incremental
costs and benefits, using an opportunity cost of capital of 12 percent. Traffic volumes in
2008 vary for the road sections from 3961 to 6838 annual average daily traffic (AADT).
The ex-post analysis shows that the sections have economic rates of return (ERR) ranging
from 31 percent to 49 percent and a weighted average ERR of 35 percent for the project
as a whole. The reason for the relatively low economic rates of return compared to other
road rehabilitation/maintenance projects is the Government's decision to make road and
bridge designs sufficiently robust so that the roads can serve as the first two lanes of
eventual four lane roads. This resulted in the need to replace a large number of bridges,
and to replace inferior materials used in the sub-base and base courses when the present
roadbed was originally constructed.

The results of the sensitivity analysis show that the expected returns are quite robust, with
a 20 percent decrease in projected traffic causing the estimated ERR to drop to 26
percent.




                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
            Names                       Title                    Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
Antti P. Talvitie        Transport Specialist                   ECSIN   Team Leader
Luis Revuelta            Highway Engineer                       ECSIN   Engineer
Robert Nooter            Economist                              ECSIN   Economic Analysis
Irina Luca               Procurement Specialist                 ECSIN   Procurement
                                                                        Financial
Njeri Ida Muhoho         Financial Analyst                      ECSIN
                                                                        Management
Jesus Renzoli            Procurement Specialist                ECSIN    Procurement
Dilek Barlas             Senior Counsel                        LEGEC    Lawyer
Hannah M. Koilpillai     Disbursement Officer                  LOAEL    Disbursements

Supervision/ICR
Antti P. Talvitie        Consultant (staff at project start)   ECSSD Engineer
Christopher R. Bennett   Sr Transportation Specialist          ECSSD Task Team Leader
Gibet Camos-Daurella     Junior Professional Associate         ECSSD Engineer
Gulana Enar Hajiyeva     Environmental Specialist              ECSSD Environmentalist
Ida N. Muhoho            Sr Financial Management Specialist     OPCS Financial Analysis
Jacques Bure             Sr Highway Engineer                   ECSSD Engineer
Jesus Renzoli            Procurement Specialist                ECSIN Procurement
Mirtha Pokorny           Transport Economist                   ECSSD ICR Author
Nijat Valiyev            Infrastructure Specialist             ECSSD Team Member
                                                                     Financial
Norpulat Daniyarov       Financial Management Specialist       ECSC3
                                                                     Management
                                                                     Program Team
Olivier Le Ber           Lead Transport Specialist             ECSSD
                                                                     Leader
Sadig Aliyev             Operations Analyst                    ECSSD Team Member
Salim Benouniche         Lead Procurement Specialist           MNAPR Procurement
Satoshi Ishihara         Social Development Specialist         ECSSD Resettlement




                                         22
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY99                                                               113.32
  FY00                                      15                       114.23
  FY01                                      21                       118.81
  FY02                                       1                         2.86
  FY03                                                                 0.00
  FY04                                                                 0.03
  FY05                                                                 0.00
  FY06                                                                 0.00
  FY07                                                                 0.00
  FY08                                                                 0.00
                          Total:            37                       349.25
Supervision/ICR
  FY99                                                                 0.00
  FY00                                                                 0.22
  FY01                                                                 0.00
  FY02                                    13                          91.72
  FY03                                    17                          93.88
  FY04                                    16                          88.49
  FY05                                    25                         134.05
  FY06                                    21                         121.66
  FY07                                    14                          79.28
  FY08                                     8                          41.15
  FY09                                     6                          45.33
  FY10                                     1                           2.26
                          Total:         121                         698.04




                                       23
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
N/A




                                      24
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
N/A




                                   25
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

A7.1   General Comments

The Draft ICR is generally accepted as an accurate assessment of the outcome of the
project and it offers a realistic appraisal of the strengths and weaknesses of the project.
This was the first major loan funded project implemented by the Ministry of Transport
(MoT) and the Azeryolservis JSC, at a relatively early stage in the transition process to a
modern road administration. It is welcomed that the ICR has assessed the implementation
of the project and measured its achievements in the light of the institutional and operating
conditions that prevailed at the time of implementation.


A7.2 Reconstruction and Upgrading of the East  West Highway from Ganja to
Gazakh

This component is considered to have been successful as it has transformed an old and
failing road into an efficient link in the regional road network that carries high volumes
of international traffic, long distance national traffic and local traffic. The project has
made a significant improvement in the condition of the road pavement and structures, has
reduced transport costs and has put the road back into a `maintainable' condition.

It is agreed that this component has made a significant contribution to the promotion of
economic growth in the region, which in turn will contribute towards poverty alleviation.
There is, however, some uncertainty over the level of the transport savings that will be
passed on directly to the poor with such a project. In future projects that seek to upgrade
the main transport links, it is considered more appropriate for development objectives to
be aimed at promoting national and regional economic growth rather than seeking to
focus on measurable poverty alleviation targets.

Section 2.2 of the ICR refers to the "lack of contract monitoring on the part of the PIU
and the supervision consultant" in respect of diversion roads that were in operation while
sections of the main Ganja  Gazakh road were closed for the reconstruction works. The
Borrower does not accept that the PIU was deficient in their monitoring. Day-to-day
supervision of the contractors' activities was the responsibility of the Construction
Supervision Consultant. The PIU had been aware of weaknesses in the level of
supervision coverage provided by this consultant, which led to ARS instructing the
consultant to remove and replace the first expatriate Resident Engineer.

A7.3   Local Roads Component

Improvement of the local road network is important for local connectivity and it
complements the upgrading of the main highways. In hindsight, the initial budget of
US$3,000 per km for local road improvements was inadequate. As the ICR notes, the
budget was increased to a more realistic level, but resulted in some delays due to the
necessity for procuring the civil works through ICB.



                                            26
In any future similar projects, an increase in the relative value of the local roads
component would be welcomed. Apart from increasing the output of the component, the
increased value would raise the importance of the component within the project.

Any support in adopting new maintenance and rehabilitation construction techniques
would be welcomed. Labor intensive maintenance techniques are not considered to be
either cost effective or sustainable, in view of the current wage level and the relatively
low availability of labor.

A7.4   Institutional Development Component

The Institutional Development Component was welcomed and it is regarded as being
successful. This success is not measured so much as by the actual reforms that resulted
from the component, but more by the component raising the awareness of the need for
reform and identifying a way forward.

As the ICR rightly notes, in hindsight the component covered a number of different areas
and the expectation of the wide-ranging achievements was over-optimistic in the
timescale provided, particularly as the component was implemented at an early stage in
the reform and modernization process. The conclusion of the ICR regarding the outcome
and success of the Institutional Development Component is supported, and there is full
agreement with the particular comments made in the ICR about the cultural and
generational differences that still have to be overcome.

Good progress has been made in the institutional reform process and there is high-level
support within MoT and ARS to continuing this process. Despite the good progress
already achieved, the achievement of lasting and meaningful institutional reform should
be viewed in a mid-term perspective, measured in a timescale of years, not months.

There are now separate institutional development components being implemented in the
MoT and ARS that have funding support from the ADB and the EBRD, as well as the
World Bank. It is felt that there is scope for improved co-ordination and liaison between
the IFIs to ensure that the various programs dovetail together and that any duplication is
avoided.

It is also requested that in any future Institutional Development Components, the success
of the consultants' output is not measured simply by man months of consultant time
expended and reports that have been produced. Consultants working in this area should
be measured by how successful they have been in getting their proposals and
recommendations (a) accepted by the end-users and (b) implemented by the end-users.
Adequate provision should be provided for follow up support during the early
implementation stage of each area.




                                           27
It would be more beneficial if future Institutional Development Components provided an
increased focus on fewer individual aspects, to improve the sustainability of the
components' outcome.

Particular mention is made in the ICR about the implementation of the HDM-4 based
pavement management system (PMS). It is accepted that the consultant was successful in
initially installing this system and in training RTSD headquarters staff on use of the
HDM-4 software. However due to limitations on funding, the consultant was not able to
assist the ARS in establishing a condition data base covering the main road network, let
alone the full national road network. The consultant also did not have adequate funding to
establish the institutional arrangements and train staff for an annual program of data
collection over the full network to enable the database to be properly updated and
maintained so that it reflects current road condition. Without this annual updating of data,
any attempt to use the PMS to plan annual rehabilitation and periodic maintenance
activities will not be successful and may lead to a lack of confidence in the output from
the PMS.

A7.5   Project Implementation Matters

Comments are made in the section 2.4 of the ICR about the shortage of procurement staff
and the limited knowledge of English in the PIU, particularly during the early years of the
project.

In these early years, the PIU was understaffed and had inadequate office accommodation
to carry out the various procurement and implementation duties on projects, not just
funded by the World Bank, but also funded by the ADB and the EBRD. Although the
staffing levels and the office accommodation have increased significantly, the work load
has also increased.

During most of the period of this project the Construction Supervision Team Leader had
an office immediately adjacent to the PIU office and both the first and second Team
Leaders provided beneficial and valued support to the PIU. This support was provided in
a very effective manner and it assisted greatly in strengthening both the procurement and
implementation capability of the PIU.




                                            28
Annex 8: Comments from Other Partners/Stakeholders

A8.1    Introduction

The purpose of this annex is to present the opinions of civil society representatives and
other stakeholders on the rehabilitation of the Ganja-Gazakh road. For this purpose,
phone conversations were organized with five residents of Ganja (two from NGOs, two
from academia, and one the private sector), who are frequent users of the road. This note
summarizes major results and issues, as observed and proposed by respondents.

A8.2    Major Findings

Reduced travel time and vehicle operating costs: All five respondents noted that the
rehabilitation of the road has resulted in a significant reduction of travel time along the
road. It was stated that now they can use their work time more efficiently and
productively:

    "I am working with Community Development Project funded by BP. We regularly
    travel through this road as our assignment is related to communities and villages
    located along the road. In the past it was taking almost the whole business day to
    visit communities only in one rayon. Now in one business day we can visit most
    communities in several rayons covered by our community development project. Time
    management is very important for the results of our project." Tural Abbasov

The project also reduced drivers' costs on vehicle maintenance:

       "My costs on car repairing and purchase of spare parts for the vehicle have
       decreased. Moreover, hustle, fatigue and irritability derived from poor condition of
       the road are not the case anymore as it used to be in the past." Masim Abadov

Impact on social life: The respondents indicated that reduced travel time and vehicle
operating costs not only supported their professional activities, but also impacted their
social life by facilitating more frequent interactions with relatives and friends living in
neighboring rayons and villages located along the road:

       "I drive on this road 2-4 times per week and I enjoy it. My relations with relatives
       and friends are more regular and now I am participating in family events,
       weddings and funerals more regularly." Masim Abadov

Impact on trade and transit role of the road: The respondents emphasized that the
rehabilitation of the road has contributed the economy of the region by stimulating trade
and businesses along the road area. The project has also increased the international transit
role of the road.




                                            29
    "From my observation I can say that business relations and mobility of people in the
    region has intensified after the rehabilitation of the road. Particularly, this was
    beneficial for development of businesses selling agricultural products." Irshad
    Abbasov

    "Since it is more convenient to drive your own car and it is cheaper than flight ticket,
    many people in the region prefer to travel to Georgia through this road. My family
    members also use this road when traveling to Georgia. My relative who was coming
    from Germany recently, also preferred to travel through Trabzon-Tbilisi-Ganja
    route." Sevda Hajiyeva

Impact on road safety: Respondents stated that the new road is also safer to drive,
because of the quality of the road as well as proper installment of traffic signs along the
road. Meanwhile, as noted by respondents, traffic safety does not depend only on quality
of the road, but also on good driving practices, i.e. how drivers follow traffic safety rules:

       "The separation of lanes by painted lines as well as traffic signs is very helpful
       from traffic safety perspective, especially when driving in the night. However, a
       decent road does not mean decent driving practices - it is more important that
       drivers follow traffic safety rules." Masim Abadov

       "Now the road is much wider and the quality is high. That definitely decreases
       accidents. But the major influence to the road safety will be when more and more
       drivers will follow good driving practices and road safety rules." Xalig Bayramov

A8.3    Lessons learned

Regarding the road construction process, one of the respondents noted that the traffic
management was not well organized on some sections of temporary roads during the
construction of the road. Another respondent noted that the existing speed limit (90 km/h)
is low for this sort of high quality highway. Finally, respondents proposed consideration
of widening or building additional lanes on the road since the traffic intensity along the
road has significantly increased over the past years.

A8.4    List of Respondents

Tural Abbasov, Regional Manager, "Maarifchi" Youth Organization (NGO)

Sevda Hajiyeva, Board Member, Bridge to the Future (NGO)

Xalig Bayramov, Driver/Collecting Agent, Azerdemiryol Bank

Irshad Abbasov, Head of Department, Azerbaijan National Academy of Science-Ganja
Regional Scientific Center

Masim Abadov, Professor, Azerbaijan University of Technology



                                             30
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


1.    Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Implementation Status Reports
2.    Project Appraisal Document, May 16, 2001
3.    Credit Agreement, July 25, 2001
4.    Quarterly Reports from Project Implementation Unit
5.    Economic Analysis of Gazi Mammed to Georgian Border Road Preliminary
      Design Study of Kyurdamir-Georgian Border Road, October 2000  Final Report
      (by Kocks Consultants Gmbh, Germany)
6.    Project Management Unit Annual Report 2003 (by FINNROAD Limited)
7.    Monthly Progress Technical Report, July 2004  Construction supervision of
      Ganja to Shemkir Highway (by Louis Berger, S.A.)
8.    Final Land Acquisition Plan from Ministry of Transport, Road Transport Service
      Department, November 2005 (by FINNROAD)
9.    Final Report Poverty Assessment and Poverty Alleviation in Azerbaijan's Central
      Corridor, April 15, 2001 (by The World Bank)
10.   Completion Report Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Shemkir-Gazakh Road
      Section, February 2005 (by Louis Berger Group, Inc.)




                                        31
