                                                                                                              96085
Azerbaijan Highway Program                                                                             October 20, 2010




    ROADS

    Azerbaijan Highway Program




Overview
Since independence in 1991, Azerbaijan has aimed to use its oil wealth to combat poverty and
make a transition to a diversified market economy. In particular, the Government has paid a
special attention to improving its international and domestic road networks for stimulating
economic growth, increasing competiveness of domestic products and accelerating
development of regions. These efforts have been actively supported by the World Bank under
the Highway Program.


Challenge                                             MULTIMEDIA
Azerbaijan was identified as one of the countries     Loading the player ...
with the poorest road infrastructure in the region,
according to a study examining the impact of
road network quality on intraregional trade in
ECA (2006). Although the Government has
invested about US$ 5 billion in the road sector
during 2005-10, significant part of the road
infrastructure remains in poor condition. It is
estimated that about 55 percent of primary roads
and 70 percent of secondary roads in the
country are beyond their useful lifespan. Road
users, businesses and communities bear
ultimate burden of deteriorated roads with longer
travel time, costly vehicle maintenance, and
higher accident risks.                                             More Results
 
Approach
                                                                    Rehabilitation of the 106 km
The first phase of the Bank’s support began with the                Ganja-Gazakh section of the
Highway Project in 2001. This Project provided US$ 40               major East-West transport
                                                                    corridor was completed under
million equivalent to reconstruct a section of the major East-      the first Highway Project
West transport corridor, and begin road sector modernization        resulting in



                                                                   33 %
in Azerbaijan.
Phase two is substantive and broad, totaling US$ 675 million,
to improve over 470 km of primary roads through the
ongoing Second Highway Project which was approved in               reduction of travel time along
                                                                   the road section. The project has
2006 and supplemented with two additional financings in            also helped to improve the
2008 and 2009. The Second Highway Project also includes a          quality of about 60 km local
                                                                   roads serving a population of
sector-wide technical assistance which aims at                     over 14 000 people, mostly in
modernization of road institutions and improved management         low-income rural communities.
                                                                   This has stimulated trade and
of the road sector in Azerbaijan.                                  business along the area roads
                                                                   and increased international
The Third Highway Project, approved in May 2010 in amount          transit role of the region.
of US$ 242 million, has launched the third phase in the
Bank’s support for Azerbaijan’s road sector. The Project will
advance the sector policy dialogue to the next stage where
issues specific to the nascent motorway network
                                                                  SLIDE-SHOW
management and operation will be addressed.
                                                                   Highway Program
 
Results
Rehabilitation of the 106 km Ganja-Gazakh section of the
major East-West transport corridor was completed under the first Highway Project resulting in
33 percent reduction of travel time along the road section. The project has also helped to
improve the quality of about 60 km local roads serving a population of over 14 000 people,
mostly in low-income rural communities. This has stimulated trade and business along the area
roads and increased international transit role of the region.
Under the ongoing Second Highway Project, about 170 km of road sections have already been
rehabilitated and upgraded, and additional 300 km of highway sections and 340 km of local
roads serving remote rural areas will be constructed. The Project has introduced international
design standards and institutionalized best practices in management and supervision of road
projects in Azerbaijan.
Along with physical infrastructure investments, the Highway Program has also supported
institutional modernization. One of the important achievements was the adoption of the new
Land Acquisition Law, prepared under the Second Highway Project, by the Parliament of
Azerbaijan in April 2010. The Project has also launched major activities on formulation of the
new road safety strategy, development of road data base, preparation of road master plan, and
revision of design and maintenance standards.
 
Voices

      We have been growing tomatoes for 15 years and taking them to the
    market in Ganja city. Roads were very bad in the past and it would take
    us more than one hour to reach the market. Now the situation has
    improved and we get to the market in 15 to 20 minutes. We use less fuel
    and get good price because we reach the market earlier,”


                 — Nofal Aliyev, farmer from Shamkir in the west of Azerbaijan


 
Toward the Future
Future Bank support in the road sector would be two-fold: (i) to develop Azerbaijan nascent
motorway network; and (ii) to upgrade regional life-roads and adjacent local roads as a part of
regional development strategy. To date, the Government has already upgraded about 300 km
of the main transport corridors to motorway standards and plans to construct an additional 700
km by 2015. The World Bank plans to actively support the Government in implementation of
this ambitions program, in particular, through technical assistance to modernize road
maintenance and operation practices. As a starting point, a pilot motorway operation and
maintenance program under the Third Highway Project will test new ways of motorway
management and maintenance that best suit conditions in Azerbaijan.

 
