Documentof             FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2919-RO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
INVESTMENT BANK OF ROMANIA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ROMANIA
FOR A
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
December 2, 1980
This document bas a retricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their oMcil ddutes. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank mntboriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Leu (Plural Lei)
1. Official Rate
Lei 4.47 = US$1.00
Leu 1.00 = US$0.22
2. Tourist Rate
Lei 12.00 = US$1.00
Leu 1.00 = Us$0.08
3. Conversion Rate for Traded Goods
Lei 18.00   US$1.00
Leu 1.00 = US$0.06
The Official Exchange Rate of lei 4.47 per US$1 is used only for accounting
purposes. The rate used for tourist transactions is lei 12 per US$1.
Beginning in January 1981, a trading rate of lei 15 per US$1 will be used to
convert the prices of all traded goods; this rate is considered representative
of the average cost of convertible foreign exchange.
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CEM                       -         Country Economic Memorandum
CIPEET                    -         Industrial Central for the Production of
Electrical Energy and Heat
CIRE                      -         Industrial Central of Power Network
Enterprises
COMECON                   -         Council for Mutual Economic Assistance
DEN                       -         National Electrical Energy Dispatch System
TCH                       -         Trust for the Construction of Hydro Power
Projects
GNP                       -         Gross National Product
GWh                       -         Gigawatt hour
ICB                       -         International Competitive Bidding
ISPE                      -         Institute of Power Studies and Designs
ISPH                      -         Institute of Hydro-electric Studies and
Designs
kV                        -         Kilovolts
LIBOR                     -         London Interbank Offering Rate
MEE                       -         Ministry of Electric Energy
MVA                       -         Megavolt ampere
MW                        -         Megawatt
ROMELECTRO                -         MEE's foreign trade enterprise



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ROMANIA
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:             The Investment Bank of Romania
Guarantor:            Socialist Republic of Romania
Project Entities:    State enterprises and Centrals of the Ministry of
Electric Energy
Loan Amount:          US$125 million
Terms:                Repayable in 15 years, including a 2-1/2 year grace
period, through semi-annual installments. Interest at
9.25 percent per annum.
Project
Description:          The project consists of the mid 1980-mid 1983 time slice
of the 1980-85 investment program of the two Centrals of
the Ministry of Electric Energy (Industrial Central for
the Production of Electrical Energy and Heat (CIPEET))
and Industrial Central of Power Network Enterprises
(CIRE))and the department responsible for
load-despatching (National Electrical Energy Dispatch
System (DEN)). This program, which includes projects
begun prior to 1980 and others to be completed after
1985, contains
(i)     24 hydro-electric generation plants (total
capacity 3,400 MW);
(ii)    7 small hydro-electric generation plants
generation plants (total capacity 80 MW);
(iii)   6 straight steam condensing thermal generation
plants (total capacity 4,280 MW);
(iv)    17 thermal power and heat generation plants
(total capacity 2,680 MW);
(v)     27 transmission substations (6,700 MVA);
(vi)    40G kV transmission lines (1,363 km);
(vii)   220 kV transmission lines (206 km);
(viii)  distribution system expansion;
(ix)    other items.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



The principal risks to the project relate to the ability
to execute the program of works on schedule and the
possibility that the very rapid expansion in coal
production will not be attained. In view of the close
monitoring of progress of project implementation and the
high national priority being accorded to the energy
sector, the Borrower and MEE are expected to be able to
take necessary actions to minimize these risks.
Cost Estimate:    The time slice of the program included in the project is
estimated to cost as follows: I/
Local    Foreign      Total
…      US$ million-------
Hydro plants                     877.0      218.5    1,095.5
Thermal plants                 1,204.3     339.2    1,543.5
Heat networks                      9.8        1.2       11.0
High voltage transmission        157.0        6.5      163.5
Medium/low voltage
transmission                171.9        3.6       175.5
Other                             13.5        9.0       22.5
Subtotal a/         2,433.5      578.0    3,011.5
Price Contingencies               55.6     125.4       181.0
TOTAL               2,489.1      703.4    3,192.5
Financing Plan                                                                 %
Internally generated             859.0       -         859.0        29
State Budget                   1,484.5     390.0c/  1,874.5         62
Investment Bank Loans             90.0       -          90.0         3
Existing IBRD loans                -        63.0        63.0         2
Proposed IBRD loan                 -       125.0       125.0         4
TOTAL b             2,433.5      578.0    3,011.5       100
1/ This project was appraised on the basis of an exchange rate of 18 lei/US$.
During negotiations, the Romanian delegation was not able to confirm that the
exchange rate would be changed from 18 to 15 lei:US$l on January 1, 1981.
Subsequently, the Bank was officially informed that the exchange rate will
change from 18 lei/US$ to 15 lei/US$ (a reduction of 16.7%) as of January 1,
1981. The estimate in the foreign cost in equivalent dollars is not affected
by the new rate. Other effects of the change are minor and would reduce the
cost estimate in equivalent lei by about 4.5%, have a little (positive) effect
on the cash generation and improve the rate of return from 10.7% to about
11.1%.
a/ Includes physical contingencies.
b/ The financing plan covers the cost excluding price contingencies, since the
local costs are based on contract prices not subject to escalation and price
contingencies for foreign cost items are, under the Romanian pricing system,
carried by another agency of Government, not by MEE.
c/ A part of this State Budget contribution, yet to be determined, is expected to
be met from commercial bank cofinancing.



- iii -
Disbursements:       Bank FY         1981      1982      1983      1984
----------US$ million----------
Annual             -         75        45         5
Cumulative        -         75       120       125
Return on Investment:            About 10.7 percent
Appraisal Report:                No. 3013-RO of November  21 , 1980






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE INVESTMENT BANK OF ROMANIA
FOR A FOURTH POWER PROJECT
1.             I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Investment Bank of Romania, with the guarantee of the Socialist
Republic of Romania, for the equivalent of US$125 million to help finance a
Fourth Power Project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including ?-1/2
years of grace, with interest at 9.25 percent per annum.
PART I. THE ECONOMY
2.            The first basic report on Romania (Report No. 1601-RO, "The
Industrialization of an Agrarian Economy under Socialist Planning") was
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 20, 1978. An updating Country
Economic Memorandum (CEM) discussing the New Economic Measures was introduced
in January 1979. The CEM was circulated to Executive Directors on August 20,
1980 (Report No. 2757-RO). Country social and economic data are given in
Annex 1.
A. Long-term Trends and Development Strategy
3.            Over the past three decades, Romania has pursued a development
strategy designed to industrialize a primarily agrarian economy. The main
features of this strategy have been (a) a high rate of investment; (b)
development of a broad industrial base, with priority given to heavy industry;
(c) development of local natural resources, including the reorganization and
modernization of agriculture; (d) balanced regional distribution of production
and incomes; and (e) training of a skilled labor force. This strategy had
been carried out through a system of comprehensive central planning and
management, guided by central party and government authorities.
4.            As a result, Romania's economic development since 1950 has been
impressive, characterized by a rapid economic growth and considerable
structural change. According to official statistics, national income has
grown in real terms at an annual average rate of about 9 percent. Per capita
GNP in 1978 is estimated to have been US$1,750, according to the Bank Atlas
methodology. Since 1950, investment has grown at an average annual rate of 13
percent, as a result of which the share of gross investment in GNP has risen,
averaging about 33 percent in the 1976-80 plan period. Industry, which has
grown at more than 13 percent per annum over the past decade, has been the
driving force of economic growth, receiving around 50 percent of investment,
most of which has been allocated to the capital goods industry. As a result,
industry has become the leading sector, accounting in 1978 for about 50
percent of GDP and for 33 percent of the labor force, compared with
agriculture's 14 percent share of GDP and 33 percent of the labor force. With
the transfer of labor from agriculture to industry, the population has become
increasingly urbanized. Standards of living have increased substantially,
partly because of the growth of personal incomes and partly because of



provision through the state budget of expanded and improved education, medical
services, housing and social expenditures of other kinds. Furthermore,
Romania's integration into the world economy has increased, as the level of
trade has grown and its composition altered.
B. Recent Economic Developments
5.            During the first four years of the present Plan period
(1976-80), the expansion of the Romanian economy has slowed down perceptibly.
The average annual rate of national income growth of 8.4 percent was below the
planned growth rate of 11 percent, and growth has been decelerating, falling
annually from 10.5 percent in 1976 to 6.2 percent in 1979. These changes
reflect the emergence of a number of internal and external constraints,
notably the pace at which improvements in productivity and efficiency can be
attained; the ability of the economy to bring new capacity into operation as
planned; a serious deterioration in the terms of trade; and trade restrictions
in important export markets.
6.            Industry continued to be the leading sector of the economy.
However, the growth of industrial production also slowed down from an average
of 12 percent per annum during 1976 and 1977, to 9.0 percent in 1978 and 8.1
percent in 1979. As in the past, the growth of capital goods exceeded that of
consumer goods and the fastest growing subsectors were metallurgy,
macbine-building, chemicals and construction materials. Agricultural
production grew at a respectable average rate of 6.3 percent between 1976 and
1979, displaying however, large annual variations due to changing weather
conditions.
7.            As elsewbere, energy has become a critical sector for the
Romanian economy. In the aftermath of the 1973 fuel price increase, an
emergency decree was issued, fostering domestic energy production and imposing
cuts and stringent restrictions on industrial energy consumption. These steps
were followed by further measures in 1977 and 1979, designed to conserve
domestic oil and gas resources and expand use of domestic coal and hydropower
resources. Although small increases in domestic oil production were
originally planned in the present plan period, production has in fact fallen
while natural gas production has stabilized. Coal production increased only 8
percent in the first three years of the plan, but jumped by 12 percent in 1979
and strenuous efforts are being made to expand it further. In spite of the
campaign to restrain the growth of energy consumption, the difficulties in
bringing new coal mines into operation on schedule has resulted in a tripling
of oil imports between 1975 and 1979. The comprehensive directives for the
preparation of the energy development program for the period 1980-2000,
published in July 1979, is designed to make Romania self-sufficient in energy
by 1990, through further development of coal and hydropower resources, through
the rapid introduction of nuclear power and through development of
non-conventional renewable energy sources. This may be optimistic, given the
rapid pace of coal and nuclear power development required to meet the target,
but the vigorous adjustment of policies and priorities by Romania to the
changed energy situation is expected to result in striking changes in the
pattern of energy production by 1990, and further improvements in the
efficiency of energy use by consumer.



- 3 -
8.             Between 1976 and 1979 investment fell about 6 percent short of
planned levels. The shortfalls occurred chiefly in industry where the planned
annual growth rate of investments of over 20 percent could not be met, partly
because of the diversion of resources in 1977 to the repair of earthquake
damage. Industrial investment, in fact, grew by 13 percent a year--in itself
a very respectable achievement. The shortfall in investment does not reflect
difficulties in mobilizing sufficient financial resources, but a number of
supply-related factors, in particular, capacity constraints of design
institutes, shortfalls in the production of construction materials, capacity
constraints in the construction sector,        production shortfalls for some
domestic equipment and more restrictive foreign exchange allocations for
imported capital goods.
9.             Changes in the level and distribution of employment accompanied
the growth and structural change of production. The total labor force
increased by only 0.5 percent per year between 1976 and 1979, but large
intersectoral shifts in the labor force continued. Between 1976 and 1979, the
agricultural labor force fell from 38 percent to 33 percent of the total. The
outflow from agriculture, which is determined chiefly by the needs of
non-agriculture sectors rather than the ability of agriculture to compensate
for the loss through mechanization, appears to be leading to some seasonal
labor shortages; recourse has been necessary to students and other groups to
meet short term labor needs. The Government recognizes that the transfer of
labor has to slow down to some degree, to avoid adverse effects on agriculture
output, and is thus giving even greater emphasis to increases in labor
productivity. Between 1976 and 1979, labor productivity in industry rose by
7.9 percent per annum, about one and a half percent more than was achieved
between 1971 and 1975. In agriculture, labour productivity rose by 10 percent
per annum.
C. New Economic Measures
10.            The slow-down of growth during the current plan period reflects
to some extent the increasing maturity and complexity of the economy and the
difficulties of moving from a development strategy emphasizing growth through
increases in capacity to growth from using existing capacity more
efficiently. As part of its efforts to improve productivity and efficiency,
the Government introduced in January 1979 a number of changes in the planning
and management system, commonly referred to as the "New Economic Measures".
Their main purpose is to increase the responsibility of enterprises for
implementing plan targets by extending the scope of enterprise autonomy and by
sharpening the impact of financial rewards for success and financial penalties
for failure.
11.            The centerpiece of the New Economic Measures is the replacement
of gross production by net production as the major performance indicator
complemented by physical output targets. The change from gross to net
production is to heighten the inducement for reducing inputs. To reinforce



concerns about net production at the enterprise level, a new system of
enterprise revenue and expenditure budgeting has been introduced which
combines evaluation criteria, computation of income bonuses and penalties for
over and under-fulfillment of net production targets, and the tax assessment
of enterprises. The second major element of the New Measures is the
modification of the planning system. The changes introduced have two
components; first, the greater involvement of enterprises in the resolution of
inconsistencies and constraints in the planning process. Second, the measures
increase the use of purchasing and delivery contracts. Whereas, in the past
enterprises could make annual contracts only after the finalization of the
plan, they are now able to make multi-year contracts which will form the basis
for the first draft of the annual plan. Both of these changes are intended to
bring greater reality to plans.
12.            The New Measures also involve important changes in financial
flows between the enterprises and the state budget. In the past, enterprises
retained very little of their profits, and transferred most, in the form of
taxes and other payments to the state budget. In future, enterprises will
retain a greater share of profits. The major payment to the budget will be a
"prelevation tax", which is calculated on the value of net production and paid
from profits, but the enterprise will retain a greater part of its profits for
distribution between funds for investment, working capital, housing,
socio-cultural activities and profit-sharing fund. The New Measures, however,
are explicitly not intended as a step towards "decentralization". Central
planning remains the foundation of the system and will not be relegated merely
to determining major macro-economic ratios and setting price or policy
parameters, on the basis of which enterprises would autonomously prepare their
own output plans. The New Measures are, in fact, a conservative attempt to
strike a balance between extended enterprise autonomy dictated by the growing
complexity of the economy on the one hand and a firm belief in centralized
planning and control as the means of obtaining high growth rates and
structural change on the other.
D. External Trade and Foreign Borrowing
13.            In foreign trade, developments have in the current plan period
been substantially different from and decidedly less favorable than those
planned. The five-year plan envisaged growth rates of 13 percent per annum
for imports and 18 percent for exports in real terms aiming at a trade surplus
which would allow the country to repay some of its foreign debt. Between 1976
and 1979, in fact, imports increased at an annual average rate of 16.4 percent
and exports of 13.1 percent in current prices. This resulted in a sharply
growing trade deficit which in 1979 reached $1.3 billion, virtually all of it
in the convertible currency area. On the import side, the deteriorating trade
balance reflects rapidly rising international prices, especially for
petroleum. Export growth has been unable to keep pace with import
requirements, partly because of less favorable price movements in Romania's
principal export markets. The insufficient growth of exports is also
explained by the vulnerability of Romanian exports to import demand



- 5 -
fluctuations and import policies of the receiving countries, and to
difficulties in meeting design and quality standards and establishing
marketing policies essential to extend the foothold in highly competitive
product markets.
14.            The large trade gap together with rising interest payment has
led to a current account deficit of US$1.7 billion by 1979. The deficit has
been financed through increased capital inflows, with total medium and
long-term debts rising from US$2.8 billion in 1975 to about US$5.6 billion at
the end of 1979. Most of the inflows have been suppliers' credits and
eurocurrency borrowings; Romania has borrowed almost US$1.1 billion on the
eurocurrency market since 1975, and has been able to lengthen maturities and
reduce the spread over LIBOR considerably during the period. The scale of
term borrowing available to Romania has not been sufficient, however, to
finance the current account deficit fully and the Government had to resort to
substantial short-term borrowing between 1977 and 1979. The net inflow on
short-term debt was particularly large in 1979, about US$1 billion, and by the
end of 1979, outstanding short-term debt had increased to US$1.8 billion.
E. Development Prospects
15.            In November 1979 the Twelfth Congress of the Romanian Communist
Party approved the Directives for the preparation of the new five-year plan
1981-85. Although they suggest the continuation in broad terms of the present
development strategy, they project lower growth rates than envisaged in
earlier drafts of the Directives and than those achieved during the present
plan period. However, one major change is the planned reduction of the share
of national income allocated to investment. The share of investment in GNP is
projected to decline to around 30 percent, compared with 33 percent during the
current plan period, and the growth rate of investment is planned to be only
around 6 percent compared with 13 percent achieved in the first four years of
the current plan period. These changes indicate government recognition that a
major issue underlying the development path of the economy in the 1980s is the
allocation of resources between consumption and investment. In our view, this
planned slowdown of growth momentum is commendable for three particular
reasons. First, there is a need to allow Romanian consumers, who compare
their economic position increasingly with that in Western European economies,
to share more fully in the fruits of economic growth than the high investment
levels of the past have permitted. Second, due to the growing complexity of
the economy, its rate of growth is increasingly influenced not only by the
rate of investment but also by improvement of productivity and efficiency,
and, as is now widely recognized within COMECON countries--this cannot be
accomplished without tangible incentives translating into higher consumption.
And third, as the more recent empirical evidence suggests, the Romanian growth
path is approaching the margin of absorptive capacity. It remains to be seen
whether the consumer goods industries have the capacity to increase production
and to improve their output mix sufficiently, and whether the investment goods
industries can provide for the investment requirements of the consumer goods
industries.



16.           The directives and back-up documents prepared for the Twelfth
Congress make clear, that the economy is becoming more dependent upon imported
raw materials and--at least temporarily--energy, and more vulnerable to sudden
changes in the terms of trade. The Romanian authorities, recognizing the need
to economize on the use of energy and imported raw materials, have been
reexamining the composition of investment in a number of sectors prior to
finalizing the new five-year plan for 1981-1985. It is clear that to contain
the growth of imports to manageable proportions, domestic production must be
stimulated in certain areas (i.e. energy, investment goods) and the efficiency
of input use improved. To finance the necessary imports, exports must be
increased, and export growth will require both improvements in the
sophistication and quality of Romania's industrial goods and improvements in
export marketing. Improvements in the planning and management systems will be
needed to ensure that all these interlinked goals can be attained.
F. Creditworthiness
17.           With the large increase in the current account deficit and the
associated increases in external borrowing described in paragraphs 13 and 14
above, the debt service payments (including interest on short-term credits)
rose to $1.24 billion in 1979 or the equivalent of 12.2 percent of gross
foreign exchange earnings. In the convertible currency area where most of
Romania's debts were incurred, the debt service ratio was 20.6 percent
compared with 17.4 percent in 1978 and 18.6 percent in 1977. For 1980,
another large current account deficit is expected reflecting in part the sharp
increase in oil prices. To contain future deficits and to keep the service
burden manageable, the Government has recently adopted a series of measures
aimed at increasing exports and restraining imports. Besides the steps taken
in the crucial energy sector (see para. 7), these measures include new
financial incentives for exports; a directive giving priority to export
production over production for the domestic market; renewed emphasis in
offsetting trade arrangements; a consolidation of the investment program which
will result in lower imports of investment goods; and increased recycling of
raw materials. Changes in the foreign exchange system are envisaged in the
near future to reflect the changing economic priorities and world market
conditions. Given Romania's strenuous development efforts within the context
of well articulated plans, these measures and possible future steps aimed at
enhancing exports and economizing the use of imported inputs, are likely to
succeed in keeping the country's debt burden within manageable limits, thus
preserving its creditworthiness for medium and long-term borrowing.



- 7 -
PART II. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
18.      The proposed loan would bring total Bank commitments to Romania to
$1,627.6 million for 27 loans in agriculture, industry, power and transport.
Disbursements under the Bank's initial loans were slow during 1975, but this
situation has improved considerably since 1976. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans to Romania and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects as of October 31, 1980.
19.      Foreign exchange, especially in convertible currencies, continues to
be a major constraint. It remains one of the major objectives of Bank lending
to help alleviate the country's shortage of foreign exchange by providing
long-term external capital and by financing projects which will expand foreign
exchange earnings or savings. The Bank has also assisted the Government to
mobilize cofinancing for appropriate projects. The Bank helped to attract
foreign commercial banks to provide $100 million cofinancing in August 1979
for the Second Livestock Project for which a Bank loan of $75 million was made
in April 1979. In addition, syndicated cofinancing loans of $200 million in
total have recently been concluded for the Mostistea and Calmatui Irrigation
and Drainage Project for which a Bank loan of $70 million was made in April
1979 and the Third Livestock Project for which a Bank loan of $85 million was
made in December 1979. Through their contacts and subsequent negotiations
with commercial banks, the Romanian authorities now appear convinced of the
positive value of cofinancing in the form of financial credits, and have
indicated their intention to seek similar arrangements for future projects.
Bank lending also aims at supporting the steps being taken by the Government
to introduce new industrial technologies, to improve the quality of products
and production efficiency, to reduce production costs and to provide for
necessary electric power development. Marketing, especially for export goods,
is also emphasized. Special attention is given to agriculture where
production is still unnecessarily dependent upon weather and where
productivity levels are still comparatively low.
20.      A number of further loans are under consideration, including loans
for irrigation, industry, road and rail transport, and regional development.
The Government has also proposed that the Bank consider lending for a port
project and the development of additional petroleum resources.
21.      In addition to lending, the Bank (through EDI) has assisted Romania
by conducting training courses on economic and financial evaluation and
methods of analysis in various sectors, including industry and transportation,
for 169 Romanian officials in Belgrade in 1973 and in Bucharest annually since
1975 in collaboration with a Romanian academic institution. Additional
courses, including one for agricultural project appraisal, are under
discussion with the Government. The methodologies taught in these courses are
becoming more widely known in Romania and are expected for some projects to
begin to supplement the methodology normally used by the Romanian planning
authorities.



- 8 -
22.      The projects, for which assistance has been committed or is being
considered, represent only a small portion of Romania's total need for
external financing. However, they will provide a substantial net addition to
the inflow of convertible currency, and are helping to set a pattern for
obtaining longer-term convertible finance from other sources. The disbursed
debt outstanding to the Bank is expected to constitute about 13 percent of
Romania's total projected convertible currency debt in 1980; the Bank's share
in Romania's debt service payments in 1980 is expected to be about 5.5 percent.
PART III. THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources
23.      Romania has enjoyed a substantial natural endowment of energy
resources which, up to 1972/73, allowed the country to be a net exporter of
energy. The most important resources include oil, natural gas, various forms
of coal (including lignite) and hydropower. Romania was one of the world's
first producers and exporters of petroleum, but as a result of depletion of
reserves over many years and increasing domestic demand, imports of petroleum
began in 1968 and grew rapidly to reach about half of domestic consumption in
1979. (On a net basis, Romania remained an exporter until 1976.) A decision
has been made to limit production in the future to maintain reserves; although
a small increase was planned, production has in fact declined in each of the
last three years. Although the discovery of oil off-shore in the Black Sea
has been announced, the resource potential of this area is not yet well
defined. Natural gas has been the country's most important source of primarv
energy since 1965 and accounted for 44 percent of total consumption in 1975.
For natural gas also, a decision has been made to limit production in the
future to maintain reserves. Petro-chemical needs will receive priority in
future allocations of both oil and gas. Good quality coal is limited in
availability and, to feed the growing steel industry, imports will be
necessary to an increasing extent. Romania has entered into long term
contracts for the production and importation of West Virginian coal. By
contrast deposits of lignite, a fuel with a low calorific value, are
substantial and production is being expanded as fast as possible to replace
the use of oil and gas in electricity generation. Production is also
beginning of bituminous and carboniferous shale, an even lower quality fuel,
for electricity generation. The size of the reserves of this fuel are not
known, but are believed to be substantial. The hydropower resources of
Romania are quite large (12,300 MW and 37,000 Gwh) and are being developed as
rapidly as possible. Full utilization of hydropower resources is planned by
the year 2000. In general, there has been an intensive search for additional
energy resources both domestically and abroad.
Energy Policy and Strategy
24.      Energy demand has grown rapidly in the last thirty years, largely as
a result of rapid industrialization. By 1975, industry accounted for 83
percent of energy use in Romania and consumption by industry was still rising
rapidly, 42 percent over the period 1970-75.  In the same period



non-industrial energy consumption rose only 6 percent. The allocation of
resources and their efficient use in the Romanian economy is not determined
primarily through the pricing system, but by a package of measures, expressed
in norms, such as coefficients and quotas, which enter into decision-making
both at the project selection stage and during operation. Thus, the concept
of price elasticity of demand is of limited relevance in determining energy
demand. (See para. 29 below regarding the structure of prices.) Changes in
the coefficients and quotas applied may be as important as price changes. Per
capita energy consumption in Romania is relatively high. The principal
reasons are the prominence of industry, and especially heavy industry, in the
economy; the fact that domestic energy resources were until recently
relatively abundant; the employment until recently of a gross production
concept; and, as recently stressed in a speech by President Ceaucescu, the
employment of energy intensive technology. Much existing plant was not
designed for the energy scarcity recently experienced. Thus, with the
emergence of Romania as an importer of energy, and the need to minimize those
imports in the face of rapid price rises and supply disruptions, industry's
consumption is the focus of attention. This is going to require measures
which will take time to show their effect. As the capital stock is replaced
over time, greater energy efficiency will be sought. In this connection, the
1981-85 power and heat subsector expansion program provides for retrofitting
of large boilers to burn local lignite. Romania has also recently shown
considerable interest in the possibility of Bank financing for a project
designed to decrease energy use of steel and chemical plants and this project
is now expected to be appraised in the first half of 1981.
25.      Since the mid 1960s, and with increasing vigour since 1973, the
Government's most important energy policy objectives have been:  (a) to
increase domestic output of primary energy, principally coal and hydropower,
in order to meet the economy's requirements as much as possible from internal
resources; (b) to intensify conservation of hydrocarbon resources, and direct
their use to petrochemical production; (c) to increase energy efficiency of
industrial plant; (d) to foster energy conservation by all users; (e) to
expand oil and gas exploration, particularly in off-shore areas; and (f) to
develop a nuclear power industry, with special assistance from Canada.
26.      The planned, integrated approach to operation and expansion of the
Romanian economy has permitted the country to reach an exceptionally high
degree of integration in the centralized generation and distribution of
thermal energy. Romania has taken drastic and early steps to conserve energy
on a large scale, more rapidly than many other countries. Following the oil
price increase of 1973, Romania issued an emergency decree fostering domestic
energy production, imposing cuts in specific consumption of energy. Further
conservation measures were introduced in 1977 and in July 1979. Energy use
quotas have been introduced and stringently applied; heating and lighting of
public places, and use of official and private cars have been reduced. Retail
prices to domestic consumers of electricity and gas were raised in August
1979, and the price of regular gasoline has been raised from Lei 1.75 a litre
in 1973 to Lei 7.5 in 1979. Waste heat recovery has been emphasized. The 1979
measures provide for an energy research and development program to 1990 and
guidelines to the year 2000, and specific responsibilities for their execution



- 10 -
have been allocated to the various agencies. This integrated approach to
energy production and consumption, will be intensified during implementation
of the 1981-85 Five-Year Plan. Indeed, the guidelines for the Plan, approved
in November 1979, are being examined yet again, especially in industry, in the
light of the recent international developments in the energy sector, with a
view to further economies in energy consumption. There have been delays in
meeting planned objectives, especially in bringing new coal mines into
production, which have exacerbated import requirements. Domestic oil
production has not met planned levels recently, either. Further delays in
increasing coal production are possible since the new targets are very
ambitious; however, there is no doubting the priority being given to their
implementation, nor the vigour with which the work is going ahead (see para.
28 below).
Electric Power and Heat
27.      Electrification began in Romania nearly 100 years ago and the long
subsequent evolution and experience has resulted in a power sector with a
strong capability and a high level of performance. Associated with the
generation of electricity is the extensive production of heat for industrial,
district heating and commercial use. A strong manufacturing capacity for most
types of equipment has grown up. Items manufactured include, among other
things turbines, generators, boilers, transformers and transmission and
distribution equipment. The last 30 years have witnessed a very rapid growth
of the electrical sector, which since 1960 has absorbed between 12 and 15
percent of all industrial investment. In the last 15 years, the expansion of
generation has emphasized hydropower and solid fuels, a trend reinforced by
recent decisions. The transmission facilities have been expanded to meet the
needs of the national interconnected system, and tie lines exist at high
voltages with all neighbouring countries. Access to electric power has also
grown rapidly and is now available to all towns and cities and 93 percent of
the villages. This has facilitated the regional distribution of industry and
agro-industry. The power sector is achieving major savings in the use of
primary energy through increased operating efficiency, which has resulted in
very low energy losses.  In 1979 generating capacity amounted to 15,087 MW, of
which 3,192 MW of hydro and 11,089 MW of thermal plants are installed in the
system controlled by the Ministry of Electric Energy (MEE) and 806 MW consist
of captive thermal plants controlled by self producers. The country's system
peak was 9,900 MW and total gross generation and purchases amounted to 66,085
GWh.
28.      Planning for power and heat supply is carried out by capable and
experienced research, planning, design and engineering institutes, in the
context of five-year and longer term plans for the economy as a whole. Based
on national planning targets, which take account of planned energy
conservation and improved efficiency, average annual load growth up to 1985 is
expected to be about 5 percent, somewhat less than the 6.1 percent expected at
the the time of the last power loan to Romania in January 1979. This slower
growth reflects a somewhat lower rate of growth of the economy generally and
the effect of the energy conservation measures. In conformity with the
strategy for the energy sector more generally, the plans and programs for



- 11 -
electric power and heat production for the next few years, based on a least
cost development study carried out in 1977, emphasize further development of
hydropower, including small hydro on mountain streams and rivers; rapid
expansion of the use of low-calorific fuels; addition of nuclear power
generation (construction of two nuclear power units is now in progress);
recovery and ise of a larger proportion of waste heat by expanding
co-generation facilities; vigorous pursuit of further efficiencies in
operation and design of plant including conversion of boilers to burn lignite;
and the search for and development of non-conventional primary energy sources
for generating electric power. The mix of primary energy used in electricity
generation is planned to change as follows:
Primary Energy in Electricity Generation (%)
1980        1985        1990
Hydropower                     17.6        20.0        24.0
Hydrocarbons                   39.7        20.0         4.5
Coal and shales                40.0        55.0        44.0
Nuclear                          0           0         17.5
Other                           2.7         5.0        10.0
100.0     100.0       100.0
To accomplish such rapid changes would be a formidable achievement, and there
must remain some doubt as to whether it can be done in this time frame.
However, the forecast for coal production in 1979, prepared in 1978, was met
and the current forecast for production increases up to 1985 are in line with
those examined by the Bank in 1978, and found to be practicable. As this
table indicates, if the coal production targets are met, use of oil for
electricity production will fall dramatically. A shortfall of coal production
would have to be met by imported energy, unless the energy conservation
measures prove to be more effective than assumed up to now.
29.      Tariffs for electricity and heat for both households and enterprises
are regulated by the State Committee for Prices and approved by the Council of
Ministers. Tariffs are uniform throughout the country and, in the case of
prices for enterprises, are generally stable between economy-wide repricing
exercises (the last such exercise took place between 1974 and 1977). In the
case of tariffs for households, prices were adjusted in 1979. As with other
prices applied at the enterprise level, tariffs for electricity and heat are
calculated on a cost plus basis, with a small profit margin added to permit
the sector to generate internally a portion of its future investment needs.
This pricing philosophy produces a relatively low transfer price for
electricity and heat, which means that some of the value of its production is
reflected in the profits of user enterprises rather than in the accounts of
the generating sector itself. As a result, the financial results of the
generating sector reflect the government's decision orn distribution of profit,
rather than the inherent value of electricity production to the economy. As
indicated at para. 24 above, the allocation of resources and their efficient
use in the Romanian economy is not determined primarily through the pricing



- 12 -
system. Therefore, power tariffs do not serve an allocative function in the
same way as in market economies. The tariff structure does, however, have an
important role in stimulating efficient use of electric power, insofar as the
tariff structure does reflect the marginal cost of supply, through time-of-day
rates, differential peak and off-peak prices and some elements of marginal
cost pricing. In addition, enterprises face severe financial penalties for
exceeding quotas for energy consumption. Tariff rates which increases with
consumption are applied in the household sector.
30.      Under the New Economic Measures introduced in 1979, in addition to
covering their costs, enterprises are required to cover from their profits
contributions to : (a) repayment of investment funds received from the
relevant Central (up to a maximum of 10 percent of the annual surplus); (b)
the enterprise's own development fund; (c) the enterprise's working capital
fund; (d) the funds for worker's housing and other social investment; (e) the
relevant social and cultural fund; (f) worker's participation in profits; and
(g) the State Budget. Costs for producing electricity have been tightly
controlled and have remained virtually unchanged since 1974 in terms of cost
per unit sold. Increased efficiency has been the major factor in keeping
costs down. Despite the reduced tariffs in 1977, this firm control of costs
has allowed the MEE Centrals (CIPEET and CIRE) to adequately cover operating
and administrative costs and provide a reasonable (in excess of 30 percent)
contribution to future investment needs. The contribution over the next five
years is expected to be similar or higher.
31.      In summary, the sector is efficiently managed and carefully planned
and has performed well in a period of rapid growth. As would be expected, the
trend is towards a slower rate of growth, partly as a sign of maturing of the
economy. Romania became more energy conscious before the 1973 oil price
increase and was thus in a position to take early and vigorous action to meet
the developing scarcity, both through adjusting the investment program and by
measures designed to limit consumption and conserve domestic hydrocarbon
resources.
Organization
32.      Coordination in the energy sector is provided by the State Planning
Committee. Five ministries hold responsibility for different aspects of the
energy sector, of which the Ministry of Electrical Fnergy (MEF) is one. The
Ministry of Mines, Petroleum and Geology is responsible for production of
fuels. These arrangements have worked effectively and provided an integrated
approach to the use and production of energy which has led to some of the
highest levels of operating efficiencies achieved anywhere. MEE is headed by
a minister and three deputy ministers and its organization, methods of
operation and distribution of responsibility follow a national pattern
established through comprehensive legislation. The ministry has a foreign
trade enterprise, ROMELECTRO, which carries out its foreign trade operations.
MEE is responsible for coordinating the activities of the sector with other
parts of the economy; translation of national economic objectives and policies
for electric energy and heat into specific physical, financial and efficiency



- 13 -
targets for each central, institute, enterprise and other units under the
Ministry; and approves their respective investments in accordance with the
existing Five Year Plan. It is also responsible for design and execution of
projects. MEE has 130,000 employees.
Role of the Bank
33.      The Bank has made three loans in the power sector in support of the
strategy of minimizing use of hydrocarbons and petroleum imports. The first
(Loan No. 1028-RO of $60 million in July 1974) financed stage one of the
Turceni Power Project, consisting of a 1320 MW thermal electricity and heat
generation plant fuelled by lignite, and associated transmission. The project
is about 15 months behind schedule, due largely to late deliveries of
equipment and shortages of skilled labour. Start-up of the first unit was in
June 1978, the second during the first quarter of 1980, and the other two
units are scheduled to be connected by the end of 1980. The second loan (Loan
No. 1242-RO of $50 million of April 1976) financed the Riul Mare-Retezat
Hydropower project consisting of 360 MW and associated transmission. This
project is about 12 months behind schedule due mainly to a chronic shortage of
tunnelling manpower. A tunnelling machine has been purchased to prevent
further delays. The third loan (Loan No. 1652-RO of US$70 million of February
1979) financed stage two of the Turceni Power Project, doubling the capacity
of the generating station to 2640 MW. Engineering and construction are
following directly on the first stage and contracts have been awarded for
about 97 percent of the goods to be financed.
34.      The principal contribution made by the Bank in the sector is the
provision of foreign exchange for what is, without doubt, a component of the
Romanian development program of fundamental importance to the economy. Few
objectives of the development program can be of greater current importance
than the rapid and successful adjustment of the economy to the changed energy
situation. Both this and future energy sector projects will contribute to
this adjustment. A subsidiary contribution will be to increase Romanian
exposure to the use of more modern methods of planning system expansion.
Additionally, application of international competitive bidding to Bank
financed procurement is exposing the substantial and effective Romanian
electrical supply industry to international competition.
The Borrower
35.      The borrower for the proposed loan would be the Investment Bank,
which is the specialized agency, under the Ministry of Finance, for investment
projects in all sectors of the economy except agriculture (including water
resources) and food processing. It has a substantial technical and economic
staff and has branch offices in all districts of the country. The Investment
Bank's involvement in investment projects begins with preparation; its staff
appraises all major investment projects technically and financially, and for
the larger projects recommends for or against their financing to the
Government. When a particular project and its financial plan have been
approved, all funds are channelled through the Investment Bank in accordance



- 14 -
with the approved financial plan. All payments for the execution of a project
must be authorized by the Investment Bank. The Investment Bank is required to
ensure that a project is executed according to the approved financial and
technical data included in the final technical and economic study. Its
inspectors check whether the project is proceeding according to the schedule
approved in the Plan. The Investment Bank's supervision and control function
is thus rather strong during implementation of a project. The Investment Bank
is the channel for all sources of major domestic investment financing other
than in agriculture. Since the primary source of investment funds is the
State Budget, loans from the Investment Bank itself are a relatively small
proportion of the total invested.
PART IV. THE PROJECT 1/
36.      The project concept involving financing for a three-year time-slice
of a larger investment program evolved in the course of discussions with the
Borrower. This approach is justified in view of the maturity of the electric
power and heat sector, its well prepared and articulated investment program
and the proven competence of the institutions involved in designing and
implementing it.  The program was first discussed in July  1979 and partial
preparation documents were submitted to the Bank in late 1979. Appraisal took
place in January-February 1980 and negotiations were held in Washington in
October/November 1980. The Romanian delegation was led by Mr. Ion Ratoi,
Senior Vice President of the Investment Bank and included other
representatives of the Investment Bank and representatives of the Ministry of
Electric Energy. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3013-RO of November 21,
1980) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Description
37.      The investment program appraised consists of the investment program
of the two Centrals of the Ministry of Electric Energy (CIPEET and CIRE) and
its department responsible for load-despatching, DEN, for the period 1980 to
1985, which includes projects begun prior to 1980 and others to be completed
after 1985. It contains 24 hydro-electric generation plants (total capacity
3,400 MW), 7 small hydroelectric generation plants (total capacity 80 MW), 6
straight steam condensing thermal generation plants (total capacity 4,280 MW),
17 thermal power and heat generation plants (total capacity 2,680 MW), 27
transmission substations (6,700 MVA), 400 kV transmission lines (1,363 km),
220 kV transmission lines (206 km), distribution system expansion, and other
1/ This project was appraised on the basis of an exchange rate of 18 lei/US$.
During negotiations, the Romanian delegation was not able to confirm that the
exchange rate would be changed from 18 to 15 lei:US$l on January 1, 1981.
Subsequently, the Bank was officially informed that the exchange rate will
change from 18 lei/US$ to 15 lei/US$ (a reduction of 16.7%) as of January 1,
1981. The estimate in the foreign cost in equivalent dollars is not affected
by the new rate. Other effects of the change are minor and would reduce the
cost estimate in equivalent lei by about 4.5%, have a little (positive) effect
on the cash generation and improve the rate of return from 10.7% to about
11.1%.



- 15 -
items, such as special automation equipment and instrumentation for power
system operation and control. These represent the bulk of the Ministry's
investment during the period, but exclude the nuclear power program and other
ancilliary investments, such as facilities for research and engineering.
38.      The project comprises the mid 1980-mid 1983 time-slice of the
program. About 90 percent of the individual projects in the program (by cost)
are either already under implementation or about to commence implementation.
Nearly all of the remaining 10 percent have recently been approved. The
thermal generation units added would be fired by domestically produced solid
fuels and would permit oil and gas fired units to be retired or put into cold
reserve. Implementation of the mining development required to supply the
fuels is advancing and receiving very high priority in the allocation of
resources. Although coal production has lagged behind planned levels in
recent years, production has expanded by 18.7 percent in the last two years
and current forecasts show lignite production growing by 58 percent between
1981 and 1985. If these forecasts are met, which appears likely, production
should prove adequate for the power sector needs as the new generating plants
become operational.
Cost Estimate and Financing
39.      The program of investments of MEE's Centrals, CIPEET and CIRE and of
DEN during the 1980-85 period is estimated to cost $6.67 billion, including
$1.28 billion of foreign exchange costs. The capital costs for hydro plants
run from about $606/kW for a run-of-river plant to about $1700/kV for a large
storage-type plant. For straight condensing steam electric units, the range
is $430/kW to $550/kW and for power and heat thermal units it is $830/kW to
$1050/kW. The median cost of 400 kV lines is $117,000/km and for 220 kV
lines, $65,000/km. These estimates are based on prices from Romanian
suppliers and are reasonable. The cost of the time-slice of the program to be
financed under the loan, including physical and price contingencies, is
estimated to amount to $3,193 million, of which $703 million would be foreign
costs. The foreign exchange cost was estimated on the basis of typical plant
costs, and includes imported items, imported components incorporated into
Romanian manufactured equipment, depreciation of the foreign exchange
investments in manufacturer's plant, fuels and lubricants and materials, such
as bitumen, of which Romania is a net importer. Price contingencies are
assumed to amount to 1 percent per annum for local costs and 10.5 percent
declining to 7 percent for foreign costs; they represent 6 percent of total
costs overall.
40.      The proposed loan, together with disbursements under Loans 1242-RO
and 1652-RO amounting to an estimated $63 million during the period, would
finance about 27 per cent of the foreign exchange costs, and about 6 percent
of total project costs. The balance of the foreign exchange costs, less any
foreign exchange raised through cofinancing, would be met by the Government.
The Borrower has stated its intention to seek cofinancing, but market
conditions are unlikely to make cofinancing practicable before 1981. Thus any
cofinancing arrangements would be finalized after Board consideration of the
proposed Bank loan. In the event cofinancing can be arranged, the Bank should
be prepared to include its normal cross-default clause in the loan agreement



- 16 -
and exchange the usual memorandum of understanding with cofinanciers. The
local costs of the project would be met from cash generation within the MEE
Centrals, forecast at 29 percent of the local costs during the three-year
project period (see next para.), by loans from the Investment Bank and by
allocations from the State Budget. All these expenditures are provided for
within the financing arrangements of the National Plan and, under the Romanian
planning system, would be made available when required.
41.      As expected when the previous loans in this sector were made, the MEE
has been generating at least 30 percent of its own investment requirements
each year. In the last three years internal cash generation has averaged 40
percent. However, because the projected capital expenditure during the years
1982-85 is considerably higher than that during the preceding years, the cash
generation contribution provided for in the forecasts amounts to only 23 - 27
percent during those years. Tariff increases are now expected for both heat
and electricity, and the indications are that the forecasts may be exceeded.
With a view to increased understanding by the Bank of the criteria to be used
in determining these tariff increases, the Borrower has agreed to provide the
Bank information on the methodology used in determining electricity and heat
tariffs. (Section 6.01 (g) of the draft Loan Agreement)
Implementation
42.      Nearly all parts of the MEE would be involved in the implementation
of the sector program. There would be four project entities: the two
Centrals--CIPEET, responsible for electricity and heat production; CIRE,
responsible for transmission and distribution of electrical energy--DEN, the
national electrical energy despatch system and TCH (Trust for Construction of
Hydro Power Projects), a unit which would own and operate the Bank-financed
construction equipment. The two design institutes, Institute of Power Studies
and Design (ISPE) and Institute of Hydro-Electric Studies and Designs (ISPH),
would carry principal responsibility for preparing studies and designs for
(a) thermal and heat stations, high-voltage lines and major substations, and
(b) for hydropower schemes and stations, respectively. Construction would be
carried out by the Ministry's construction trusts under supervision of the
enterprises and the engineers and specialists of the Centrals and institutes.
Bank financed procurement would be carried out by ROMELECTRO, the Ministry's
foreign trade enterprise. MEE has demonstrated to the Bank its capability for
the work and organization required to execute the sector program.
Procurement
43.      Full agreement has been reached on the list of goods to be financed
under the project. Items suitable for procurement by international
competitive bidding (ICB) were estimated to amount to $160 million. Of this
amount, items totalling approximately $125 million to be financed under the
loan, have been agreed in consultation with the Bank, for procurement in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Items to be financed would include
equipment for hydro and thermal power stations and the transmission system;
equipment for civil works on the hydropower facilities; and materials and
supplies for construction. A schedule for the procurement and delivery of



- 17 -
equipment has been agreed. Some small items not suitable for ICB and
amounting in aggregate to not more than $1.25 million, would be eligible for
procurement by international shopping.
44.      Romanian suppliers, who would receive a 15 percent preference in bid
evaluation, are competitive producers of nearly all the equipment required
under the project, and are exporters of much of this equipment, and also of
complete installations. Romanian suppliers are therefore expected to win most
of the bids. Direct imports to be financed under the loan are expected to
amount to be less than $5.0 million.
Disbursements
45.      The Bank loan would be disbursed against 100 percent of foreign and
ex-factory local costs for equipment and materials. 60 percent of the loan is
expected to be disbursed in FY82, 36 percent in FY83 and 4 percent in FY84.
Accounts and Audit
46.      Assurances have been obtained that the combined financial statements
of the two Centrals and DEN and the financial statements of the Investment
Bank will be audited each year by the State General Finance Inspection of the
Ministry of Finance and will be furnished to the Bank within six months of the
end of each fiscal year (Sections 4.02 and 6.01(e) and (f) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Environment
47.      The planned reduction in the use of domestic oil and gas, which the
project will facilitate, will entail some adverse environmental consequences.
Creation of new hydropower stations may result in the loss of agricultural
land, although this may well be compensated by better flood and river control
and reduced consumption of fuels in electricity generation. Adverse effects
will also come from open-cast coal mining and increasing use of fuels with a
high ash content. Air pollution can be expected to increase, especially in
the low-lying Danube river area where atmospheric temperature inversions are
frequent, inhibiting dispersal of pollutants discharged into the air.
48.      Counter-measures to protect the environment are in effect and are
expected to be gradually strengthened in the future. The substantial and
growing co-generation of heat and electricity by MEE stations is reducing use
of solid fuels in general and for heating purposes by industrial enterprises.
High smoke stacks and fly ash precipitators are also being used. A law
promulgated in 1973 established comprehensive regulations on environmental
protection, which are adequate. The monitoring of pollutants has been found
to be satisfactory by a Bank mission. Consequently, no additional monitoring
equipment is required. The Borrower has agreed to furnish annually to the
Bank a report on emissions of S02 and particulates at the project sites and
in the surrounding areas, and of specific actions taken or found to be
necessary to maintain emmisions from thermal power and heat plants below
Romanian legislated standards.



- 18 -
Justification and Risks
49.      As indicated above (para. 28), average annual load growth to 1985 is
currently expected to be about 5 percent. During this period, a rapid change
is planned in the mix of primary energy used in producing electricity and heat
generation, in order to conserve domestic reserves of oil and gas and minimize
oil imports (para. 28). The expansion program for generation and transmission
facilities is essentially the same as the one analyzed in the 1977 least cost
development study accepted as the basis for the Turceni II loan. Because
changes in the program are minor, while petroleum prices have almost tripled
since that study was made, the least-cost development program proposed in
1977, intended to minimize oil consumption, is even more valid today. The
continued applicability of the 1977 study is supported by the relatively high
sensitivity of the return to further fuel price increases.
50.      Although the return on investment in the program has been calculated,
this understates the economic rate of return, because the revenues from the
sales of electricity and heat do not fully measure the benefits to residential
and public users. Indeed until 1977, electricity consumers were paying
considerably higher tariffs than the present ones.'/ The indirect benefits
of a reliable electricity supply which has permitted extensive use of
multi-shift working in industry are also significant. The return has been
calculated on the program rather than the project because of the system
effects. The costs included in the analysis were the incremental program
investment costs and incremental operating, maintenance and fuel costs of the
facilities. The benefits included were revenues from incremental sales of
electricity, heat and other items and the reduction in fuel costs in the
existing oil and gas burning plants which would be placed in cold reserve or
retired as the new facilities come into operation. Revenues are measured at
average price levels in the financial forecast and the fuel cost savings
assumed an import price for crude oil of $30 per barrel. On this basis, the
rate of return would be at least 9.5 percent. A change of 10 percent in the
import price for oil would change the rate of return by 0.7 percent. Domestic
prices in Romania are fairly stable, but a 10 percent increase in coal prices
would reduce the rate of return by about 1 percent. If the pre-1977 tariff is
taken as a proxy for the consumers' willingness to pay,l/ the return on
investment would rise to 10.7 percent. This is considered a more
representative figure than the base case of 9.5 percent. As indicated in
para. 28 above, if coal production falls short of plan, this would have to be
compensated by imports of oil unless conservation measures are more effective
than assumed at present.
1/    Electricity tariffs were reduced by about 30 percent in 1977 as part of a
financial reform package affecting all sectors, the broad objective of
which was to permit the Government to move its revenue collection point to
industrial, manufacturing and agricultural enterprises engaged in the
production of final outputs. One of the side effects of these changes was
to make power tariff levels even less useful as an economic indicator than
before. However, this was essentually an accounting change and the
pre-1977 tariff was therefore considered to be a closer proxy for the
consumers' willingness to pay.



- 19 -
51.      The principal risks to the project relate to the ability to execute
the program of works on schedule and the possibility that the very rapid
expansion in coal production required will not be attained. Skilled labor
shortages have been a major cause of delay in the implementation of investment
programs in this and other sectors. The Government has recently announced a
number of measures to address this problem. Much greater emphasis is now
being given to completing projects in progress before undertaking new ones.
Measures to achieve a better balance in future between the capacity of the
construction sector and the works it is to undertake in any one annual plan
have been introduced. Manpower training programs are also being
strengthened. In view of the close monitoring of progress of project
implementation and the high national priority being accorded to the energy
sector, the Borrower and MEE are expected to be able to take necessary actions
to minimize these risks.
PART V. LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Investment Bank of
Romania, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist Republic of
Romania and the Bank, and the report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
53.      Special Conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of Annex
III.
54.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
55.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve this loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 2, 1980
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
ROMANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ROMANIA                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEICHTLED AV  "ES
LAND AREA (TIIOUSAND SQ. 10.)                                                          - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             237.5                               MOST RECENT            CESITRALLY PLANNED       INDUSTRIALIZED
AGRICULTURAL      149.6             1960  k    1970 Ak ESTIMATE A                ECONOMIES                COUNTRIES
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                 180.0       510.0   1750.0                      1188.8                  8104.2
ENERGY CONSllMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    1342.0      3013.0    4042.0                    2116.2                  7021.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, KID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     18.4        20.4      21.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT O TOTAL) 34.1         40.8      46.5                       35.5                    76.0
POPULLATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      26.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        30.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2090
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. IM.                       77.0        85.0      92.0                       83.6                   142.8
PER SQ. xn. AGRICULTURAL LAND    126.0       135.0     146.0                      228.0                  523.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         28.2        25.9      25.9                      30.8                    23.5
15-64 YRS.                        65.1        65.5      64.1                       62.1                    65.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   6.7        8.6       10.0                       7.1                    11.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCEN1T)
TOTAL                              1.2         1.0       0.9                        1.4                     0.7
URBAN                              3.8         2.8       2.5                       2.9                      1.3
CRtDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     20.0        20.0      19.0                       18.2                    13.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      9.0        10.0       9.0                        7.1                     9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              1.2         1.3       1.2                        1.3                     0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..
FDOO) AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          89.0        89.0    152.0                       108.5                  110.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  108.0       115.0    130.0                       113.7                  131.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          86.0        90.0     103.0                      75.1                    98.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       30.0        34.0      43.0                      28.6                    62.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      3.0         2.4       1.0                        1.1                     0.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    66.0      . 68.0      70.0                      70.1                    73.5
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           75.7        49.4      31.0                      22.4                    13.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         ..
URBAN                               ..         ..
RURAL                               ..         ..
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         ..
URBAN                               ..         ..
RURAL                               ..         ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           78O.Djc     840.OLd   734.0                     2070.8                  624.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      620.Oc         ..    638.0                       240.1                  218.9
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            130.0/c    120.0      109.0                      96.7                    121.2
URBAN                             50.0/c      50.0      60.0
RURAL                            620.0/c     770.0     730.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        23.0        ..                        ..                     17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..         3.2/
URBAN                               ..         2. B.
RURAL                               3* 34
AVERAGE NUMBER OP FERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..         1.4/
1RBAN                               ..         1.3/.
RURAL                               ..         1.4/
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..        49.O.e
UtRBAN                              ..        86. Ole
RtlRAL                              ..        27.0        ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
RtO''NIA - SOCIAL INDTCATORS DATA SE!?
R(FLUIA                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVER4GES
- MOST RECENT ESTTMATF) L
MOST RECEfT           CENTRALLY PLANNED          NLDUSTRIALIZED
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE l               ECONOMIES               COUNTRIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED EaROLLMENT RATIOS
PRINARY:    TOTAL                98.0       113.0    102.0                      118.7                   100.1
MALE               101.0       112.0    102.0                       117.5                  102.2
FEMALE              95.0       114.0    101.0                       120.0                  102.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                24.0        45.0      77.0                     100.2                    87.1
MALE                27.0        51.0      81.0                      101.9                   84.4
FEMALE              22.0        38.0      73.0                      97.8                    84.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (I OF SECONDARY) 54.0        58.0      70.0                      47.4                    19.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          25.0        21.0      21.0                      16.2                    21.3
SECONDARY                        16.0        18.0      19.0                      13.0                    16.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        ..          ..      960                         *.                    98.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                    2.2        ..                        ..                   339.9
RAD10 RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                      120.0       152.0    146.0                      403.5                   932.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        3.0        73.0    139.0                      200.5                   354.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSASD POPULATION               147.0       169.0    129.0                      354.3                   327.4
CINEIMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  9.0       9.8       8.7                      14.4                     3.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   10509.5    11408.2  12015.8
FE:ALE (PERCENT)                 44.9        44.5      45.o                      40.7                    36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            64.5        1;7.0     33.0                      50.2                     7.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)               20.5       26.3       33.2                      30.6                    38.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              57.1        56.0      55.9                      47.3                    44.6
MALE                               64.5        63.3      62.8                      57.1                    58.1
FEMALE                             50.1        49.0      49.1                      37.0                    31.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             0.7         0.7       0.7                       0.7                     0.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..
hIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         ..        ..                        ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INC011E
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..                        ..
ESTI!hATED hELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..    394.0
RURAL                              ..          ..    394.0
ESTlhATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/   The group averages for each indicator are population-veighted arithmetic mean. Coverage of countrien
among the indicators depends on evailability of data and in not unifom.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate. between 1974 and 1978.
1c  1962; L WHO estimates; te 1966.
April, 1980



- 22-                                                                                   ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5 pages
DEFI8ITIONS OF SOCIAL INfDICATORS
Notes   Altho-gh the data are drrat  fro  soort.. generall  judged the moa authoritative and reliable. in should sla- be toted that they may ao  ba Ltste-
na.tionlly tomparble because of the lack of gt-dardicad'dafinialoc cod ...n.apte ased by differeet roratri.a  in tolaigthe dent.  The data are, noe-
thel-a, useful to deouibe orders ot eagnitada, indi-ta tarodo, and chare.tenlee  -tetain maJar differrooga between nou-tnig..
Tin rofaroone g9-pe are (if the .ease.. tooty group of the gobjean toaonty and (2) a oouatvy graup  Ibh .omawbt bigle.r averge ietoa  thea tha antry group
of nit aub). -oc touny (eanept for "Capital Surplus Oil taportere" grbup ehv,  "Mddle loIne. Nfortb Afoita sad Middle tEat" is obo..an beecos o  anronager
aoi-otrIaffilaite).  In rho rafaroo-  t- rop daaa the  tora          . arsouainnighted aribteaft a -macn  for each ieiaa                 ted  h  owsnly  hbsa at
Ibear half of the  ~.. noonime in a group hue dune for that iodi-anvo.  SinP.ta havneraga of ototrios a-ng the indinan-rs dpe a                    hannb  avilability of
data uod it nontefom   nuotion nuen hbenis              L i  relating averegee of Nos iedioetov to anotber.  Thos. aerge  are aely ..sefal in tompaing the -aI.e
of too indioator at a tian stag rho cautry and refareeno groups.
LAND1 A00A (thna..a.d oq.kn.)                                                                nouano    atrtatan-  ouoto   tate  ay aueor at Practtiolg pRy-
Total - tota  eanfete urea nompnising lard ara and inland water.-                            eio        alid roeamdital tobool at anl-erity leva.
Agrit.1tura1 -Eiscimte ofparnloa   racedt oaiyo  perenotly                                 Poelotian Perr  iarnsa Parson - P.opatiani    divide  hI  nuebee,        at  eaniatg
fof  -rpa. peanora, marina and kitoh.. gardana or an Lie fallow; 19771dta.                esI. an  femle graduete noa..... itrantigalI reecY. and aitaatmags
Foeulatiom ten go.eitalBe   total, urban,a           oo   - P.palatioa (tend,
CoyottCAIITd(IS) -lOPpotcapta  eteate ao trret mrio  pnteeoa-           rbue. gad  aral.) divided hy their rempe-ti,  aoha  of hosepital bids
nolated bycoeanria  mrtbtd oa World Dan  Atla  (1976-78 basia); 1960,                        available in pobli.aend private geerel eand epeailalfod hospital aad ne-
190O,Iad 19 78 dtno.                                                                        habilitation           Hntr .9Iop1tnel  ear e"tabiahae"tns pameatily ataRf  d
bya  iat oapyrIa.  Istablisbhtentsprovidieg prieripally  atrdia
iNtERGYCONIOPPTION PER CAPITA - Aneou1 -onaurptiat of taerllenergy (nol                        treaent elde.Mtl b   :.          heptl.hwvr  faoehat   e  madira
and ligoItr, yotroirt, aotora1 gae and hydro-,.. Leaner and gohara              n             entrar  nor paransoiy staffed by aphysiaie (bet by a msdioai asaistant.
nrioity ivklgueaooioivlnDooan; 1960  1977  ad 1979                                            as,mdto   t.   bo    foffr  oPaitea adieenpevea
dan.tlite   ranga of mediral fe-ilities.  Par etatietital parpoese  rbae hopi-
PoPIILAIIotl .011 VITAL OTATItTICS                                    ~~~tale intlado WHOe prinnipa1 goo...    an d eps.iollired hoepita1s. and   -trc
Tanai Poaolatioo, Mlid-Yaor (nlio)- Ae of Jaly 1; 1960, 1970, and 1978                     Ahiepi.n.al oerr Hoptarl Bad-'optu.,at enadiof   adi  oaa          rtt  ceier.h
d.,.                                                               f~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~roe hbreytlna    divided by the noeber of bade.
urbanPo            Peon rn'(Encrt of tonl)    Ratit af -nrhat to ntal popolatlan;
diffec...d. tailan          of bthnera  my aff,ot crmparabhItny of data               HOUSING
among  ...ntries; .INf.60  1970, and 1978 data.                                         Average Dire of Rtousabld IeStar...   sr h......oId) - tota.eb .en  metal
Fopelotiro Pro isondone                                              A hoe.b.. h    ogat   f     ropadr`    iniidas .b abtelivIng qasrttra
PoyclatIian in yaa r 2000 -Curren,t population po0Jottioo  one..  base.d on 1980           and thair main  mania.  A brande  or .oga  may  or may mat be inldad in
tonalti_apoloia  by aga and  -m  and their mortality and fnotility retae.               the hoosahold foreattIos   apss
Prjetonpaaonr  for mortality ratea  -apriar of threo 1-velsaasu-             Avareas sober of Per.... gar rar  - total. urbee. and -ara  - Avtarge e
log li. a       ..p.oeny us birth incre...tng with  -oonry'e  . pen  pita. inna.a       bar of peraoea per  er.-o i.al  arban, and roral rceupied a-eteOnioAl
lana, ad fma     . lit     .......nyTh.iiin    t7.  yas            para-          dealitega, rep-oniv-ly.  DIwliegs eanlade aor-parmoegt strt.teree end
seetfrfenrtilit y nine alo lava there Iarela ratmiog doslibe in                   -unontpied pu-ta.
fertility ....anding to  -onet loya  an  pace family pienning pottorete.              Ann..a to Elnttolcity (pert...t af deelliga.) - totai. urban, and renal -
lath country ir than areigoad.ann  f tIhose nine  obeiaatinva rf motality               Coscantiana1 deIlniage with aleornirity is living qnarters aa perrentage
mad tarytility ytra-de totP pojattion  Pura .                                           at total, -rbos, and rural dre11isga  -ep-tiv-ly.
Otatinan  aoltion - Is a  tania..ary papulution thera ie no grnwth ait
the binti rana ie aquel no the death rato, mad ala  the aE. tnruot... r.-    EDUCATION
main  --t-tna.  Thia it achIeved only aftar fertility nates danlna. tO                 Adiaeted Earallment Patios
the tyl-atrest.  level of unit net  taedoiot rato. whn oat h genratior                    ,=  r       .aoIf- tanal. male end fasa1e - Dines. ntal, male and fE ie
ofrmtrplanee itself enucily.  The startionary populatle    ie  a                       nrlm   of all ag.e at tha primary leve  as peframntgas of reapeotive
netimatod on thes buae of tho yrajnoted oeantta   of tho popalatior                        primary enhoe-a1ge  epalatina; nermeally intlade  sbildran aged 6-il
in the year 1010, aod the rate of deollan of fesrailinty rte to replace-                   yeas bee edjuatad forrdiff'sn-t lengthe of primary adocationn  fan
mat Lel.                                                                              orane   a    avra   d_taia   eaol tmy e....ad 180 Peras.et
perrvs pav  trlasino  I  ... haaod - The year whet atatiomny" prpelati-o.. alitesae  peilt               eablwehaaataofic                   aaiae
Poeo Dr .e.aity                                                                          edaation meqeirer an Leant f. enyars ofeprored pimary, iestnotnienl
Paro e. ha. - tild-ya... poplatiaio  pet square kilometer (100 becnares) of                  provides8... genera tvotal, en teethebr traising istr-mtti"g  foen pwpib
per esoh.  a             Iiuloe  land - taeql.ad oc abae fan agtinulo-l land                 enlyud1etd7..r   fS; .  ..p....o.
only.                                                                                    V..atiemal enrleet Inerset of s-nandery) - Vraatirma  inetinati..
AR.lnonO  aStr.ctara  taan)-Children (0-14 ynars), w-kig-age (15-                         Onnede tanhical, lodutria1, or other p..gnama ehith operate indepan-
64 yaare), and oatired (65 Y.a   and ..vnr) as pert..ntagee of aid-yman pope-                dandy or aa department  of secon dary iestitotieee.
lanto; 100, 190, ad 1978 dato.                                                       Papel-t ..ahen nania, - prirar. and agtemdarv_ - Total atudeet  eanrlad in
Pooitin n,t  R.ate7ann)-ntl-Ana  e7ahnae f total mid-                                    primary and esamadany la-a    divided by emabere of ntatbars is the
Yna  papolatione f or 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1970-78.                                         tove..sponding leveln.
Fpolan.ior irn_th Iota  (p.t.ent - urban - Arnnel grnth ratra of urban  apop-                Adalt literac  rate (aen-0n  - Literate adaita  (able to raad and write)
lationa fot 1950-60  1960-70). nod 1970-78                                                   aa r p-rtennge of tonal edelt papelanima aged ID Yeare and over.
Crado Birth tats loan t      ..o.ad) A A.noal livo birth. Par thovend at nid-yeao
poyoln.tian; 1960,.r197, and 1978 dota.                                                CNIJLOTIICN
o.de Death lat  (ta  tho.atad) - Annua deathe par thooeuod  r mid-year                     P.....naet Cave (pet thouand papalation) - P.....get tans a-poiee manor
prealt   1960, 1970, and 1978 data.                                                  tare  maeanig less than mighn pena-s; sacledee ealbar....  hearsa am and
Croto NReprodottin fat   A- Arga n-mb- of d-aghtatewom=n till b.a. in                         iiay  eila
her noma  rapnodentivr ;perind if she eapert...n.  praatgs-apoollin fa-_                 inda       ier    athnaoaed s          eain -All tyr.of retainers far redtb
tiliLy restalaaouIy fv-Year uvat.ga  ending in 1960, 1970, and  9197.                      hr-td-ate   .g..-           1 .pr o In   n   -dS o    7P.Plta      .d--i
Family PIa. nngr  - A-tronra. AnnuaI (thae..anda) - Annoal sober of ennepnaoo                  -.dt .    gesrai p-tlit4 par teinyars ofph-loie -            anta-in.o   dis.onl
of birth-cvntra1 davie .....dar ..aspicer ofnanias.l family pianning pragrom.              n ina re.teier  In aoran...ire andsi -years b -abe .rbistatn  ofmaise
PumilY                                                                                       cauesnie...Pabolished 1ls-asin.
.oore .f oidbulgaa(1-id y_ara) uha be ioth-noetral device  no                            TVt terivers iron thb..aa.d panuietien   - TV nraciver  foan brnadaaet to
all marrtied aro  in eame ago froeP.                                                       general poblin P- th-aand papolatina; ...ludan ealitna -          TV0 raries
00 noltlycor                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~in tintris. tad is Yeara  he.m ragistration  of TV -sts wasdim   etft.
PInd '.  fNFawarpatnerer                                                                               Circandlatiaes-it.-  Iro.thugand rpaation) - Shwa tha average nimt..iI-
Inr   fFrdPootn  yrf     oit  1697-0) ndro   r  capita amu                            otnPaf "daily general interet nmppr'  defined as a periadinal pub-
prodootio ofalfv  oaatdI.Pt..tdoieaio.denatd fre  ad                                       lIouind trdpnmCiyt Taod ing gene.raleas   In is omsidarad
in Z on  aleds  ynar batia.  Coanditioroove.r polusov  grodu  Is.g. eugarna...             so ha,-  "daiy   if  rit  prr  aslaslyt        lmawa
inatoad of ogar) ohich urn edible and  -tosnenuatriente (eog. toffen and                 Cinom   AnnaI Attandan     Pa er Capita paTar Ir- Breed en the nabar of
teurrean_lcded).  AgVg.tng          prodootiaa of ..ach ctotry in bare.d an                nikt   ai.aig  h             .er, including admieio.. to drive-in ciomaas
natiooai anregr poadonr pri -ni6htt;, 1N1-65, 1970, and i978 data,                   andkethisld uotnits.    .
Per avie earioof olorne  rar..t nO osoiramatrr) - Caspotad fr..
eesrnynqoinalut of oat fond aappia ailabl  inno...atry Per nupita                   LiBOt POSCt
yet dY.    vIlh          P tep eie osprtt- damatin priduoin, P ir ta I.a.              Toa   Fao   orts (th-eaadE) - Itanoinally attica parama. ialoding
eryprnt, ad ohanoen in atok.  Net aoppli-e...olado  animal f..rod, eado,                 amd f-onnre nd  nrployrd hut snolodiagh aiv                  rostdents, eta.
qoi .tta  td ia food Pro...oin6, end loan.n in ditrtnbotion.  leqoira-                 Drfinirie P irPcrou-ont aeaat tompavabIa  1960. 1970 and
-ton  sort ontliatd by Phi base d Pn piyaiologico1 noeds for norma  anti-. 1978idana.
viny ood health oo-ideringonotmaulnmrrtr,body neighte, aego                            fml   orrt   - ya1a   labon fvree ..Perr...nags of total labor frore.
and  -a dinnthoib o  ot.f Ppo.Lr tion.  and a11imtg 10 Por...nt far  .tante an          ntlalsteforen)-Laa  fo                 nfrea   foeary.hetingand
vohod ..onr; 1961-60. 1970, an   97dt.fahn   apreng af ntal -laber fame   190 t17 Y%'   97R8 data.
Par toylta eupply of p..t....  (gr-m pro day) - Protein nartont of part cpita            Indnatry (peoet)-    - Labor force in mining, construtti-a  nefatne
ot aupply of food yer day.  let aepply of foodi Ia defisnedatav. b           t.R-        and alantniotty, water and gaa  Ie percen.tage of total labor forte; 1960,
,oitrm.... too all occn-tnisa.tebliahsd by aNDA provide tot mitiso                       1970 ard 1978 dana.
dIora. ..   f .f 6ora  of..P  total prc..In pro day oId 20 gtrant of animal and        PartniciotiorOaoIrren -e            tatl maIn, and famal  - Partialpatira at
p.caeyotnv,ofohob10tonoshoidhaanma  prnin   Treatn                ativit  var  aecRpo. as tra, maI., end female lahon forsas
cr00 oro Ibeer thean three of 75 grone of tota  poatoin und 23  vEmn.: of..-                                             6f 1.f.1.. e
animal pootoin as at  --gtage   ton navoLd, propoced by FAO inthnb  Third                 nMana5197a of tonal maLle andhfmae p.IO'.pelnnr t  all ege trma perm.tveyR;
World Food Sa-voy  1961-65, 1970 an  1977 data.                                          198  190  andtr 197  dta. p'pltioer  ared11.0' pati-tipatlo    mAte rfletia
Por ocoita prtoaya numb  tram animl and psla   - Protein epply of ford de-                  ate-am  attrnfta aft .ho pI    aair,ad  agtiet...Afa   si
rivad form  urinal  and no.a. in St-n  can day; 1061-hi. 1970 and 1977 dana            Earsobnit Dcopetany Rutio - Ittia of populanma  mOnt 15 and 65 and ryan
Ihild (aear  1-i) Motnaiiny Rata (per th.oa.).    An..ul dratha pot thoe...d in              n  the total labor fort..
cEr gruuy 1-4 yoara * to thildrma in thin aWe troop; for mas daely.Pitgtu--
itro. date derivad foo  lifr  ablot; 1960, 1970cd t17  dn.                             INCOME DISTIBUDTION
930110                                                                yenca~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r ..tag. of P..va.  Etan I    ..(both in oa,t.h and hind) - ERorivd by riobeat
HEALTH                                                                  IPh..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Spetas    ioet 10 pIre, Poota  20 prr-ant, and Poresat 40 perr...t
Litl a tpeonany aninth Mvtoot  - Avnruae omb-r of yeane at life vmining                       of hao...holda.
atbrh   Ol   970 and 1978 dato.
Inftoo  Mfornltry Rtun   (vat thouand) - uo-ua d.ethn of infnt. ondr- ate yoor    POET  TARGET GtROUPS
of_agr  n   hon        lion hirnhc.                                                       tEtimatd Absolate Poverty Inerm   Level (059 pre  amie)   aban and rnl
tonan laoWur  pooa oforcatn)-ttl   rban, and nou                                         ialt  pvtyboelve   etatitm   level beowitaegie
toaban of yacylo (votal. orht. and rnnal) onob reanosohl  aoree-to saf        ntnlotnally cdnqoone diet plea aeeentis1 oar-fond raqoiranset  is art
:oat ,Ilply (tioludr  ttardarfeneatrns an Portentdht ocnaiod                            affordable.
outernuhuetha tro  prteotd horeiita, aprinae, and aetitaryn-lie) ae                      Etiatatd Rtelativa Ponerny Inoo          Level (Ug8 pra  orPita).-oraadmaa-
Pero..r-g-a of thalroreottv         ooalna 1. Inaarhaaatrec .Pob                           total -aleiepcetnom   ee  i. one-thirdo   vrg  per  arta
nrusooahlvcoreol  imply that tho h...-wif. a 00 .eabata ofthe hoetob'id                   lad  PForaltias Below Aberltta Pvet leseLee                       Ieet)-crIa
tavily'.                                                              toguttoIdtao.1us.-  n  __ __.1_V
doorntoh- notna p.Dio    (nrd-p- t-ti ...vt lasirr  - th. ay..umiu. e                                                        i..gaIdt)b     .'                        tbp.'
diytl  sr_rnao  o   htrnrEtv    ocanoe   cmadn-lraio  n  SWa Data Divisira
octal "oY  lolodn thn oclIrotias and diapta..l, nlth 00P      tir i.tretet,toait Anelyata and P-Jeotine Department
ofh Psn _ort  aad_orte  nt r by  _ate-borsa ryrtan  00 the uer of                                                                  April, 1980
Pit Ponl-t  aod ainlar iaalsns



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
ICQENOSC MIDICATOM
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978
Average Annual Rate of Growth ()            _
US$Mln.           %           1961-65            1966-70            1971-75           1975-78
GNP at Market Prices                        36,040          100.0          9.01/              7.71J             11.34/              9.1j
Gross Fixed Domestic Investment             10,905           30.3         11.3               11.2               11.2               11.9
Gross National Saving                       10,126           28.1
Current Account Balance                       -779            2.2
Export of Goods, NFS                         8,639           24.o          9.0i /I           10.92 9            23.6_2 1            1.52 1
Imports of Goods, NFS                        9,174           25.5         l0.7 V             12.7: WV           22.3?/1'           15.51 /
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Net Value Added  4/                 Labor Force                      N.V.A. Per Worker
US$  Bln.        %             Mln               S                 US $                %
Agriculture                                   4.46           15.3           3.36             32.7               1,327              46.8
Industry                                     16.87           57.9          3.41              33.2               4,947            174.6
Constrction                                   2.97           10.2          0.92               8.9               3,228            113.9
OtherV                                        4.83           16.6           2.59             25.2               1,865              65.8
Total/Average                        29.13          100.0          10.28            100.0               2,834             100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE IN 1978
Central Government
Lei Billions       % of GDP
Total Receipts                               300.8           52.4
Total Expenditures                           299.3           52.1
Total Surplus                                  1.5            0.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
(in billions of Lei, end of year)
1975          1976          1977              1978
Money Supply                                 176.4          201.4        207.5              232.5
Short-Term Bank Credit                       170.2          194.0        194.5              212.8
Retail Prices (1975 = 100)                   103.9          104.4        105.0              107.3
Percentage Changes in Retail Prices            0.2            0.5           0.5               2.2
iv Growth rate of national income                                                                               EMENA CPID
-  In current prices
31 Growth rates of exports and imports only.                                                                    May 23, 1980
ki National income (SMP methodology) and output of the non-productive sector.
Includes net output or the non-productive sector.



- 24 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of S pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (Convertible Currencies)
1977                  1978                   1979
$m     Conv.(%)l/    $m    Conv.(%)l/   tm            Conv.(%)I/          MERCHANDISE EXPORTS, 197S  Mln 
Exports of Goods, NFS          7,357         55       8,728         52      10,094        59               Capital Goods                 ?,289         28
Imports of Goods, NFS          7,529         55       9,319         55      11,389        63               Consumer Goods                1,405         17
Resource Gap                     -172        75        -591        102      -1,295        99               FoodstU ffs                     784         10
Interest Payments (net)         -132        108        -168        102        -358       101               Intermediate Goods              667          8
Balance of Current Account   -304            90        -759        103     -1,653        101               Raw Materials                 2,011        27
Industrial                (2,538)        32
MLT Borrowing                                                                                                Agri2ull'>ral                (373)         5
Disbursements                 861         98       1,174        99        2,065        99                                            8,056        100
Amortization                 -562         99        -586        99         -809        99
Net                           299         94         588        99        1,256        99               EXTERNAL DE3T, December 31, 1979
MLT Lending                                                                                                                                       US$Mln
Disbursements                 485         51         483        62         486         59               Total MLT                               5,564
Amortization                 -127         44        -137        71        -177         57                 of which convertible
Net                          -358         53        -346        58        -309         60                 currencies                            5,467
Short-term Credit                 256        69         487        94          981        99               DEBT SERVICE RATIO, Dec. 31, 1979           z
Net Errors and Ommissions           -         -         -13          7         -68        98
IMF                                38       100         -20       100           21       100               All Currencies, gross _/                   12.3
IBEC                              101         -         103         -           96         -               All Currencies, net 3/                      6.6
Change of reserves                -32       100         -40        100        -324       100               Convertible Currencies, gross 2/           20.6
1977           1978            1979                            TBRD LENDING, December 31, 1979          US$Mln
Imports of oil and oil products              875          1,218           2,051                            Outstanding and Disbursed                 589.6
Exports of oil and oil products              688             746          1,744                            Undisbursed                               580.7
Outstanding and Undisbursed            1,170.3
EXChANGE RATES
1.    Official Rate
Before August 1971                      6.0  Lei: US$1
August 1971-February 1973               5.53 Lei: US$1
February 1973-March 1978                4.97 Lei: USt1
Since March 1978                        4.47 Lei: USt1
2.    Tourist Rate
Before August 1971                     18.0  Lei: US.1
August 1971-February 1973              16.0  Lei: US$1
February 1973-October 1974             14.35 Lei: USt1
Since October 1972                     12.0  Lei: US$1
3.    Conversion Rate for Traded Goods
July 1973-March 1978                   20.0  Lei: US$1
Since March 1978                       18.0  Lei: USt1
Starting January 1981                  15.0  Lei: US$1
1/ Convertible currency as a percentage of total.
2/ Debt service payments for credits received only.
3/ Net of debt service payment receipts for export credits extended.
August 20, 1960
EMENA CPlD



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7 pages
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ROMANIA
Statement of Bank Loans
(As of October 31, 1980)
US $ Million
Loan      Fiscal                                                  Amount    (less cancellations)
Number     Year    Borrower             Purpose                    Bank    TW   IDA   Undisbursed
Five loans fully disbursed                                         280.0                    -
1083-RO    1975    BAFI a/                 Agricultural Credit    30.0                      1.5
1169-RO    1976    BAFI                    Flood Recovery           40.0                    1.6
1242-RO    1976    Investment Bank         Hydropower               50.0                    8.6
1247-RO    1976    BAFI                    Irrigation               60.0                   4.2
1368-RO    1977    BAFI                    Irrigation               60.0                  12.5
1436-RO    1977    Investment Bank         Bearings                 38.0                   7.1
1447-RO    1977    Investment Bank         Glass Fiber              18.1                    0.1
1448-RO    1977    Investment Bank         Polyester                50.0                  10.2
1479-RO    1978    BAFI                    Agricultural Credit    71.0                    26.7
1509-RO    1978    BAFI                    Irrigation               40.5                  21.1
1536-RO    1978    Investment Bank         Tire                     85.0                  50.8
1581-RO    1978    Investment Bank         Post Earthquake          60.0                  34.3
1634-RO    1979    Investment Bank         Chemicals                40.0                  27.0
1651-RO    1979    Investment Bank         Pipe                     40.0                  38.6
1652-RO    1979    Investment Bank         Thermal Power            70.0                  45.2
1669-RO    1979    BAFI                    Livestock                75.0                  46.5
1670-RO    1979    BAFI                    Irrigation               70.0                  70.0
1764-RO    1980    BAFI                    Livestock                85.0                  76.2
1794-RO    1980    Investment Bank         Canal                   100.0                  90.9
1795-RO    1980    BAFI                    Irrigation               90.0                  90.0
1876-RO    1980    BAFI                    Orchards                 50.0                  50.0
Total                                       1,502.6                  713.1
of which has been paid                         24.2
Total now outstanding                       1,478.4
Amount sold                 19.8
of which repaid             15.1                4.7
Total now paid by Bank_i/                   1,473.7
Total undisbursed                                                    713.1
a/ Bank for Agriculture and Food Industry.
b/ Excluding exchange adjustments.



- 26 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 7 pages
B. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION!!
Ln No. 1020      Bacau Fertilizer Project; US$60 Million Loan of June 28, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: December 31, 1974; Closing Date:
September 30, 1980
After initial delays due to changes in site and project scope, and
delays in design and construction, most plant units have been commissioned
during 1978/79 except for the urea plant. The urea plant is delayed due to
slow delivery of local equipment and is now expected to be commissioned in
late 1980. The final project cost is expected to be close to the appraisal
estimate. The loan is now fully disbursed.
Ln No. 1027      Otelinox Special Steel Project; US$70 Million Loan of July 10,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: April 3, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The Cold Mill is now operating and the Bar Mill is nearing the end of
its final construction. The Cold Mill start-up was 19 months behind the
appraisal schedule and the Bar Mill is 33 months behind that schedule. Risk
of additional delays in the Bar Mill should be monitored by the Bank. The
reasons for early project delays were mainly due to Romanians' lack of
familiarity with International Competitive Bidding procedures and the Bank's
Guidelines; and especially in the case of the Bar Mill - lack of interest and
competition among suppliers. More recently, additional delays have been
caused by late delivery of Romanian manufactured equipment, aggravated by low
quality of domestic equipment and the complexities of coordinating much local
supply into the Bar Mill foreign supply contract. Total project costs are
expected to be close to the original appraisal estimates. The loan is now
fully disbursed.
Ln. No. 1028    Turceni Thermal Power Project; US$60 Million Loan of July 10,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: November 6, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
Delays in construction due to late delivery of equipment and skilled
labor shortages are likely to result in a 15-month delay in commissioning of
generating units. Project execution is about 95% complete and otherwise
according to plan, but in connection with Turceni II some modifications in the
coal handling equipment mills are underway because the coal (lignite) was
found to be harder and of poorer quality than originally expected. Training
of future operational staff is in hand. The loan is now fully disbursed and
was closed June 30, 1979 without extensions.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1083        Sadova-Corabia Agricultural Credit Project; US$30 Million
Loan of February 6, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 29,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Progress continues to be satisfactory in implementing subprojects.
Construction of the pre-mix feed mill is satisfactory and final project
procurement has been carried out under contracts tendered internationally.
Ln. No. 1169        Flood Recovery Project (Agricultural Component); US$40
Million Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness:
December 2, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project execution is proceeding well except for the installation of
the flood warning equipment which has been slow. Equipment procured under
international competitive bidding has been delivered and only small quantities
of spare parts remain to be procured. Delivery of flood warning equipment is
expected to be completed in 1980 and installation will extend into 1981.
Ln. No. 1242        Riul Mare Retezat Hydropower Project; US$50 Million of
April 28, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 26, 1976;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
Due to shortage of manpower, tunneling works have been delayed; but
mechanized excavation has been underway since mid 1980. In addition, rains
and severe winters have delayed the construction of the earth dam core and
project execution is consequently about one year behind schedule. Civil works
for other parts of the dam and underground power station are well underway,
and 100 percent of the loan amount has been omitted.
Ln. No. 1247        Rasova-Vederoasa Irrigation and Agriculture Development
Project; US$60 Million Loan of April 28, 1976; Date of
Effectiveness: November 3, 1976; Closing date; June 30,
1981
Construction of pumping stations, canals, and other project works is
progressing satisfactorily. Out of 11 dairy farms, four farms are in
operation and seven are under construction. Procurement contracts for all
equipment have been awarded. The feedmill and silo in Negru Voda is completed
while the silo for 44,000 tons in Baneasa is 25% completed. Work on soil
erosion control has been 70% completed and the land levelling, 43% completed.
Ln. No. 1368        Ialomita-Calmatui Irrigation Project; US$60 Million Loan of
March 2, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Progress on all phases of work is satisfactory. An additional 35,000
ha. of irrigation facilities would be completed by end of 1980, amounting to a
total of 60,000 ha. or 40% of total. No major problems exist.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1436        Brasov Bearings Project; US$38 Million Loan of June 15,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Contracts on virtually all major packages except one, have now been
signed and implementation of the project is proceeding ahead of the original
schedule. Project costs are expected to be close to, or slightly over,
appraisal estimates. Overall economic aspects of the project look somewhat
more favorable than at appraisal due to the improved market outlook, improved
product mix, and changes in project design to achieve lower product costs.
Ln. No. 1447        Bucharest Glass Fiber Project; US$18.1 Million of June 15,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. The Bank has
reviewed the procurement of roving machines and has decided that procedures
undertaken by the Borrower were inconsistent with those required under the
Loan Agreement. Therefore the portion of the loan (US$197,080) that would
have otherwise been eligible for disbursement has been cancelled. Light up
and testing for Section I (Spinning) started July/August 1980. Final
acceptance is expected December 1980/January 1981, which is 12 months behind
appraisal estimates. This is mainly due to civil construction delays because
of severe winter conditions and also delays in imported equipment delivery and
erection. Commissioning and three-shift operation is targeted for June 1980.
Ln. No. 1448        Cimpulung-Muscel Polyester Project; US$50 Million Loan of
June 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: October 3, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
Most of the supply contract have been awarded and execution of the
project is proceeding satisfactorily. By the end of 1980, about 90% of the
Bank loan will be committed and 70% disbursed. No overrun in the foreign
equipment cost of the project is anticipated.
Ln. No. 1479        Pig Production and Processing Project; US$71 Million Loan
of July 15, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 28,
1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project represents the Bank's first participation in Romania in a
development plan on a nationwide basis. It provides for the development of a
large multiplier herd, establishment of testing and selection centers,
expansion of industrialized swine production, and provision of slaughtering
and processing facilities. Project implementation is proceeding
satisfactorily although Bank disbursements are lagging 28 percent behind
appraisal estimates. Construction materials and slaughterhouse equipment
procurement under ICB is almost complete.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1509        Viisoara Irrigation Project; US$40.5 Million Loan of
January 27, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 15, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project is progressing satisfactorily and progress has been almost
exactly on the government's Plan target although slightly behind appraisal
target. Almost all equipment contracts have been finalized.
Ln. No. 1536        Tires Project; US$85.0 Million Loan of March 31, 1978; Date
of Effectiveness: June 9, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1981
Construction of the Zalau plant (truck tires) is slightly behind
schedule with expected completion in the third quarter of 1980. The
Turnu-Severin plant (off-the-road tires) has been delayed 2 years mainly as a
result of difficulties in obtaining adequate responses from prospective
suppliers of the main technology and equipment package. The contract for this
package was signed in September 1980.
Ln. No. 1581         Post Earthquake Construction Assistance Project; US$60.0
Million Loan of June 12, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
September 5, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Procurement continues to progress satisfactorily except for two
subcategories: machinery for construction equipment and the earthquake
engineering center. Disbursement continues to lag significantly behind
appraisal estimates. A reallocation of funds between subcategories is likely
to expedite disbursement. The enterprises assisted under the loan generally
recorded substantial output growth in 1979.
Ln. No. 1634        Craiova Chemical Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of January
15, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: May 2, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Overall project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily with
project completion expected by the end of 1981. The start-up of 3 plants, for
which a 9-12 month delay has been anticipated, will be delayed further by
about 3 months because of late delivery of critical equipment. The final
project cost is expected to be close to the appraisal estimate.
Ln. No. 1651        Roman Seamless Pipe Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of
February 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: July 30, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
After an initial delay of nine months procurement is proceeding
satisfactorily. The contract for the main technology package was signed in
November 1979 and other packages have been prepared for international
bidding. Site clearing started in May 1980. The project is expected to start
commercial operation in the first quarter of 1983.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1652        Second Turceni Thermal Power Project; US$70.0 Million Loan
of February 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: June 29, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is expected to be delayed by about 15 months because of
delays in Turceni I and the necessary sequential arrangements for
implementation of both projects. Orders for the three Bank financed 330 MW
thermo-electric units have been placed and procurement is almost completed.
The project is about 20% completed.
Ln. No. 1669        Second Livestock Project; US$75.0 Million Loan of April 16,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: July 6, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Progress in project implementation is satisfactory and disbursements
are in line with appraisal forecasts. Contracts for procurement under ICB of
construction materials have been awarded and tender documents for
slaughterhouse equipment have been approved.
Ln. No. 1670        Mostistea and Calmatui Irrigation and Drainage Project;
US$70 Million Loan of April 16, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: July 16, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Initial preparatory works are proceeding satisfactorily. Bids for
procurement of equipment and material, under ICB, have been opened and most of
the bids have been evaluated and contracts made.
Ln. No. 1764        Third Livestock Project; US$85.0 Million Loan of December
17, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 15, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily and project
disbursements are far ahead of appraisal estimates. Tender documents for
procurement under ICB of construction materials and equipment have been
approved.
Ln. No. 1794        Danube-Black Sea Canal Project; US$100 Million Loan of
April 30, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 15,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The bidding process for both equipment and materials is proceeding on
schedule.
Ln. No. 1795        Covurlui Irrigation Project; US$90 Million Loan of April 8,
1980; Date of Effectiveness: July 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
Bids for procurement of equipment and materials have been opened and
are being evaluated by the Borrower. Initial execution of the project are
proceeding satisfactorily.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7 pages
Ln. No. 1876        Orchards Project; US$50 Million Loan of June 19, 1980; Date
of Effectiveness: September 16, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
This loan became effective only recently. No problems are expected
with the initial execution of the project.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
ROMANIA
FOURTH POWER PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to          6 months (July 1979-
prepare the project:                  January 1980)
(b)  Agency which has prepared             Ministry of Electric Energy
the project:
(c) Date of first presentation
to the Bank, and date of first
Bank mission to consider the
project:                              July 1979
(d) Date of departure of appraisal
mission:                              January 16, 1980
(e) Date of completion of
negotiations:                         November 4, 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:        April 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Review of initial bidding documents.
Section III: Special Conditions
(i) The Borrower would provide the Bank with information on the
results of the tariff studies undertaken or planned by MEE and the criteria
and methodology used in establishing the levels of tariffs. (para. 41).
(ii) The Borrower has agreed to furnish annually to the Bank a report
on emissions of SO2 and particulates at the project sites and in the
surrounding areas, and of specific actions taken or found to be necessary to
maintain emissions from thermal power and heat plants below Romanian
legislated standards. (para. 48)



I BRD 10830R1
24-                -.k-   CH,NO ?vY  2         rPo-JECT  EXIS1, x  NOVEMaEn 1EK
, VC                                                                    , 2d i  C,  L ,X ,  L ,iS, \'  i  \t    ,:    ,\    \  fE  u    AG    N  \\AT  t    * THERMAL WEBSTATfOHYTE NSION
*~v r  U ;     J   USS/   r  * T N MAL PQWE TR    STATION S
S   '#.,,,,,,fi,,=zZE,¢h_ . A = , 2 AL ;S s  jJ  KAt  \ S /94.\ / . >; ; 2 S a * * WrDU PGMMER R%ATIONS A~~~~~~~~~~Y04.PO.Ef. 971IO N
4aQlkV TFAANSMIS&IOlN LcNES
t   -     ~~~~~~~~~4DQRV IJMAANtMJSSIQUN LINES
OEfiATINGAT 22fkV
l10kV 'TANSMISSION LI NES
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r:                                          E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UROPEAN HVIGHWYS
MAJOR ATIONAL HIGHWAY'S
-x--+-- l--   RALOAVO
TIH.A                                         I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NTEVNAI1AP4AL VVVNVRARPES
i PRLVIrkfAL CAPITALS
0 MUNICIPAtITIFS
PA.                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R QM AN IA
TR NSMISSION 5YST
:7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V
:' 0 | 0 0 0 : * :S ; e y X ) <) ~~~~~~E 1<})t ;S_.MU GI4 IR: 
S A tf S 0 0:      : :4  f \    W  \        t       X        \         D      (AbLU040E' l     . . \A
L',09;4|:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4R  
u                                                                                      4,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m
T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



