Document of
The World Bank                   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot Ng. P-2945-NEP
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
January 14, 1981
This doumet b1 a reotcted disbirition  d may be aed by reipiets ony lo the peorme of
their eoliell do". Its  ents may net otherwise be discosed without Wold Bak auhrlaln.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Nepalese Rupee (NR)
Since March 20, 1978
US$1.00      -     NRs 12.00
NR 1,00      =     US$0.08
NRs 100      -     US$8.33
FINANCIAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AADO     -   Assistant Agricultural Development Officer
ADBN     -   Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
ADO      -   Agricultural Development Officer
AIC      -   Agricultural Inputs Corporation
CTC      -   Central Technical Committee
DDG      -   Deputy Director General
DG       -   Director General
DOA      -   Department of Agriculture
DTC      -   District Technical Committee
FAMSD    -   Food and Agricultural Marketing Services Department
HMGN     -   His Majesty's Government of Nepal
JT       -   Junior Technician
JTA      -   Junior Technical Assistant
MFA      -   Ministry of Food and Agriculture
PLAA     -   Panchayat Level Agricultural Assistant
RRC      -   Regional Research Coordinator
RRS      -   Regional Research Station
SMS      -   Subject Matter Specialist



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
AGRICULTURE EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Kingdom of Nepal
Amount:              SDR 13.8 million (US$17.5 million equivalent).
Terms:               Standard
Project
Description:       The objective of the proposed project is early and sus-
tained improvement in agricultural production, particu-
larly foodgrains, in eight of the twenty administrative
districts of the Nepal Terai. Improvements in production
would be brought about by the wide adoption of low cost,
labor intensive agricultural practices, improved varieties
of seeds and provision of fertilizer. The project would
comprise:
(a)  reorganization and strengthening of agricultural
extension services;
(b)  strengthening and reorientation of applied and
adaptive research;
(c)  strengthening the coordination between research
and extension services;
(d)  establishment of regular monitoring and evalua-
tion procedures;
(e)  local and overseas training of staff, studies
and provision of consultants;
(f)  establishment of regional training centers, and
offices and housing for field staff;
(g)  facilities, equipment and vehicles to support
extension and training programs; and
(h)  provision of fertilizer.
The project faces no special risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their, fficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost
of Project:                                           US$ Million Equivalent
Component                Local   Foreign   Total
Civil Works                      2.07       1.71    3.78
Vehicles                          -         0.35    0.35
Equipment and Furniture          0.22       0.84    1.06
Farm Development                 0.04       0.17    0.21
Technical Assistance              -         0.65    0.65
Monitoring and Evaluation        0.17        -       0.17
Incremental Staff Costs          0.55        -       0.55
Incremental Operating
Costs                         0.60        0.31    0.91
Fertilizer                       2.15       6.21    8.36
Base Cost                        5.80      10.24   16.04
Physical Contingencies           0.53       1.01    1.54
Price Contingencies              1.18       2.09    3.27
TOTAL PROJECT COST             7.51 1/  13.34   20.85
Financing Plan:                           US$ Million Equivalent
Local   Foreign   Total
IDA                 4.81     12.69    17.50
Government           2.70        -      2.70
UNDP                  -       0.65      0.65
7.51    13.34    20.85
Estimated                                          US$ Million Equivalent
Disbursements:       IDA FY            1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Annual               4.1    4.3    2.0    3.0    3.0    1.1
Cumulative          4.1    8.4   10.4   13.4   16.4   17.5
Rate of Return:       50%
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 3104-NEP, dated January 5, 1981.
1/   includes US$70,000 of duties and taxes.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Kingdom of Nepal for Special Drawing Rights (SDR)
13.8 million (US$17.5 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance
an Agricultural Extension and Research Project. UNDP has agreed in principle
to provide US$650,000 equivalent to finance technical assistance and studies
under the prcposed project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The most recent economic report entitled "Nepal-Development Perform-
ance and Prospects" (Report No. 2692-NEP) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on December 14, 1979. The principal findings of the Report and
recent developments are described below. Country data are shown in Annex I.
3.        Nepal is one of the least developed countries in the world.  Per
capita income is estimated at $120 (1978), and health and education standards
are well below the average of South Asia: life expectancy at birth is about
45 years, infant mortality 150 per thousand, and adult literacy 19%. The
population, growing at the rate of 2.6% a year, is estimated to be 13.6
million (1978). About 95% of the population live in rural areas.
4.        The economy of Nepal centers around agriculture.  It accounts for
more than 60% of GDP and 75% of merchandise exports, and provides a livelihood
to over 90% of the population. In addition, most of the industrial sector,
which comprises about 10% of GDP, processes agricultural raw materials. About
25% of total rural incomes are estimated to arise from non-agricultural
activities. Cottage industries are one of the most important of these,
engaging over 1 million people and comprising about 6% of GDP. They provide
basic consumer goods in the many small isolated markets where such goods would
otherwise not be available.
5.        As a small open economy, Nepal is highly susceptible to develop-
ments in India. The Terai, which lies along the Indian border, has close
and virtually free trading links with India, and accounts for about 60% of
the country's GDP, and about 40% of the population. The Kathmandu Valley,
the administrative and commercial center, is closely linked with the Terai,
but at significant transportation costs. The rest of the country, the Hills
1/   Part I of this Report is substantially the same as Part I of the Report
and Recommendation of the President to the Executive Directors on a
proposed credit to the Kingdom of Nepal for the Babai Irrigation Engi-
neering Project (Report No. P-2926-NEP of December 11, 1980).



and Mountains, is isolated by the nature of the terrain and consists of a
large number of fragmented markets.
6.         When Nepal adopted economic and social development as major gov-
ernment objectives in the early 1950s, there was virtually no economic or
administrative infrastructure. Initial development efforts were necessarily
concentrated on establishing a foundation for future development. During
these early stages, it was inevitable that growth would remain slow and that
there would be little if any increase in per capita income. However, the
Fifth Development Plan (1975/76-1979/80) was to be a turning point; it was
believed that the country was poised for more rapid growth on the order of 4-
5% annually. The level of investment was to increase substantially and its
focus to shift towards the more directly productive sectors and the social
services.
7.        Public investment performance has been excellent; development
expenditures have grown at over 15% annually in real terms and the Government
has been relatively successful in reorienting investment away from the trans-
port sector towards agriculture and the social services. However, few of the
other Fifth Plan objectives have been achieved. The GDP growth rate is likely
to average only 2.4% per year, mainly because of poor agricultural performance.
Little progress has been made in increasing agricultural productivity and
agricultural production increased at an annual rate of only 0.7% during the
first four years of the Fifth Plan. Growth in other sectors has been mixed,
with the poor agricultural performance limiting the growth of agro-related
industries. Production in several large industries including jute goods,
sugar, leather goods, and cement has increased but most Fifth Plan targets
will go unmet. In the services sector, tourism has been dynamic, but it
still only contributes about 1% of GDP.
8.        Economic developments during 1979/80 were characterized by declining
output, accelerating inflation, and a weakening in the trade and payments
position. Foodgrain production declined by 13% due to the poor monsoon in
1979, and to deal with this shortfall, the Government appealed for 110,000
tons of foodgrains assistance. Donors have made available about 60,000 tons
and together with local procurement from less seriously affected parts of
Nepal, this may be sufficient to maintain minimum food requirements. The
1980 monsoon is reported to have been satisfactory. Inflation accelerated
to about 12% in 1979/80, because of the deterioration in the domestic food
situation, higher import prices and the expansionary effects of the budget
deficit. Government activity slowed in 1979/80; real growth in total expen-
ditures was only 5% compared with 10% in 1978/79, while revenues declined by
3.5% in current terms. However, the economic prospects for 1980/81 are some-
what brighter in view of the improved weather as well as the planned accelera-
tion in government expenditures given in the 1980/81 Budget; GDP growth should
be positive in contrast to its 1% decline in 1979/80.
9.         The disappointing overall performance of the domestic economy during
the Fifth Plan period has been accompanied by a widening trade deficit.
Imports have grown under the impetus of the Government's development program
while the trend in export earnings has been sluggish due to declining rice
exports. The deterioration on the trade account has been partly covered by



- 3 -
increased tourism receipts and remittances from Gurkhas (soldiers from Nepal
serving in the British or Indian armies). Foreign assistance in the form of
grants and concessionary financing have generally ensured that the overall
balance remained in surplus. However, the shortfall in foodgrain production
coming at a time when Nepal's oil bill was rising has resulted in payments
deficit of US$8 million for the 12 months ending July 1980, and Nepal drew
SDR 10.5 million (US$13.8 million equivalent) from the IMF under the Compensa-
tory Financing Facility in September 1980. As of May 1980, foreign exchange
reserves were equivalent to six months of imports.
10.       On March 31, 1978, the authorities replaced a complex system of
multiple exchange rates and exchange and trade restrictions with a dual
exchange system. Transactions with India, which were virtually free from
restrictions, were unaffected by these changes. New treaties on trade and
transit with India were also concluded in March 1978. Under the dual exchange
rate system, Nepal maintains a basic rate of NRs 12.00 per dollar, with a
second, premium rate applying for all merchandise trade with third countries
except for imports of certain development goods. On February 21, 1980,
the premium rate was changed from NRs 16.00 per dollar to NRs 14.00 per dollar,
but the exemption was restricted to only imports of petrol and petroleum
products, cement and chemical fertilizers. These exchange rate adjustments
involved an appreciation of about 14% for exports to third countries and an
overall appreciation of about 2% for imports from them. But this was partly
offset by (i) withdrawing the 12% duty on exports of raw jute; and (ii)
raising import duties on a wide range of imports from third countries. How-
ever, with the exception of raw jute exports, earnings in domestic currency
from exports to third countries will decline, leading to a possible shift of
some exports to India. The overall trade balance is likely to be adversely
affected by the recent measures.
11.       The poor long-run performance of the economy is chiefly due to the
failure of agricultural production to keep pace with population growth. Over
the period 1967-77, foodgrain production grew at an average annual rate of
only 1.5%. Increases in the area under cultivation account for almost all of
this, since average yields rose by only 0.1% annually. Contribution of irri-
gation development has so far been limited. Only about 23% of the irrigable
area is provided with irrigation, and existing facilities are still poorly
utilized. In the past, insufficient attention has been paid to bringing water
down to the farm level and this has been compounded by inadequate support
services such as extension and research, timely supplies of improved seed and
fertilizer and other inputs, credit and farm-to-market roads. However, recent
major irrigation projects financed by IDA and the Asian Development Bank are
addressing these problems by taking more comprehensive and integrated approaches.
12.       In the Hills and Mountains, which contain only one-third of the
country's agricultural land and yet have nearly two-thirds of the population,
population pressures have pushed cultivation up steep hillsides and onto
marginal land; average yields have actually declined. Population density on
agricultural land in these areas is higher than in Bangladesh. Malnutrition
is acute; food production meets only two-thirds of minimum subsistence needs.
Because they have little to trade except their labor, one-third of the inhab-
itants of these Hill areas migrate seasonally to the Terai plains and northern
India for food and work. Since the early sixties, an estimated 400,000 have
migrated permanently, and there are signs that this exodus is accelerating.



J3.       The seriousness of the economic and social problems confronting
Nepal calls for a well focused development strategy that directly addresses
the difficult choices to be made. However, economic policy making, including
preparation for the Sixth Plan (1980/81-1984/85), has been delayed by the
political developments of the past two years. These activities culminated in
the May 1980 referendum which largely reaffirmed the existing political
system, but allowed for suitable reforms, including the possibility of direct
election of members of Parliament. The Sixth Plan is only now undergoing
final review. However, the chrust of the Plan, outlined in an earlier docu-
nient. was endorsed by members of the Nepal Aid Group at its January 31, 1980
meeting.  It places highest priority on developing agriculture, including
revitalization of Hill food production to meet local requirements since
significant agro-climatic specialization between the Hills and Terai is
feasible only in the longer run. At the same time, since land holdings in the
Hills are too small to generate much more than subsistence needs, programs
will be started to encourage diversification into other activities such as
small-scale and cottage industries to supplement Hill incomes. For the Terai,
the strategy is to continue efforts to realize the Terai's considerable
poLential for increasing production of foodgrains and cash crops. The
i- -adionl infrastiucture is to be more fully utilized and improvements L(.
extension services and associated inputs concentrated on those areas with
irrigation facilities. Reafforestation programs are given priority in order
to provide fuelwood and fodder as well as to reduce soil erosion.
14.       While these efforts in the directly productive sectors merit urgent
attentior., Nepal faces similar challenges in developing its human resources.
Although curbing population growth requires major actions, selective programs
in education and health can greatly assist population planning as well as
alleviate human suffering and lay the basis for future increases in productiv-
ity. The Government's strategy recognizes that the approach must be selective
since programs for meeting basic needs generally have only a long-term impact
on manpower development but divert resources away from activities more directly
and immediately related to production. Increasing foodgrains production will
meet the major need of improved nutrition. Better and more readily available
supplies of drinking water and fuelwood will meet other needs, while also
freeing labor currently spent in their collection. Basic health facilities
are to be expanded through integrated community health posts, while in educa-
tion, stress is placed on improving the quality of primary and adult vocational
education. Family planning programs are to be stepped up. The other basic
need to be met in rural areas is improved transport, and the Sixth Plan will
include programs to improve trails, tracks, and suspension bridges.
15.       For Nepal to achieve more rapid and sustained growth, the productive
capacity of its economy will need to be broadened and strengthened since the
present extreme dependence on agriculture limits the economy's overall growth
potential to about 4% per year. Tourism offers perhaps the best near-term
potential for increased foreign exchange earnings; however, efforts are needed
to reduce its capital intensity, strengthen linkages with other local indus-
tries and extend its benefits beyond the Kathmandu Valley. Hydropower also
offers some possibilities, but neither it nor tourism will ever be substantial
generators of employment. In the long run, Nepal must diversify and develop
its industrial sector. Obviously, efforts in this sector must be on a highly
selective basis, in view of the multiplicity and complexity of the constraints



-5-
to industrial development, including the lack of natural resources and a
skilled labor force, as well as Nepal's small domestic market and landlocked
position. Public enterprises need to operate more efficiently, village
and cottage industries should be promoted. Beyond this, joint ventures with
India, for example, as in cement production, may be attractive. In support of
these endeavors, the preconditions for industrialization will need to be
established in the near future. These include providing financial incentives
and technical and marketing services, and the upgrading of manpower skills in
the areas where Nepal may have a comparative advantage.
16.       Nepal has made significant progress in mobilizing domestic resources
to support its development efforts, considering the extreme poverty, low degree
of monetization, and fragmented nature of the economy. Revenue grew at 16% a
year in current terms between 1969/70 and 1978/79, increasing from 5% of GDP
to about 9% during this period. Over the same period, the Government was able
to maintain savings on current account in excess of 2% of GDP, a good achieve-
ment for a country in Nepal's economic position. However, this excellent
record is now in jeopardy. Political developments led to difficulties in
collecting income and land taxes in 1978/79, but this was more than offset
by increased collections from other sources. However, custom duties, which
generate about one-third of total revenues, were lowered in the 1979/80 budget
contributing to the 3.5% decline in overall revenues in that year. To reverse
the deterioration, the 1980/81 budget raised various taxes including import
duties, sales tax, income tax on private businesses, tourist taxes (hotel and
airport taxes, and visa fees), and fees for extraction of forest products.
These measures are expected to generate revenues equal to about 13% of total
1979/80 revenues which, together with better implementation of existing taxes,
should be sufficient for overall revenues to exceed 9% of GDP in 1980/81.
17.       Foreign assistance has been a decisive factor in Nepal's development.
During the Fifth Plan, foreign financing equalled about 45% of development
expenditures. In view of the limited prospects for increased domestic resource
mobilization, foreign financing requirements may be about 60% of planned Sixth
Plan development expenditures, which amount to about NRs 10 billion or over $800
million at 1979/80 prices. Aid commitments need to average about $225 million
annually during 1980-82 compared with $160 million during 1977-79. However,
even this level of foreign assistance would not provide the Government with
sufficient resources to meet increasing consumption demands. Additional aid,
either through financing a higher proportion of total project costs or in the
form of commodity assistance, could provide budgetary support to meet pressing
recurrent expenditure requirements, particularly in the social sectors. The
Nepal Aid Group was formed in 1976 to assist in the overall coordination of
financial and technical assistance efforts. The Group has met three times at
plenary meetings under the Chairmanship of the Bank to discuss overall external
assistance needs as well as at the local level in Kathmandu to discuss and
coordinate strategy. At the latest plenary meeting, which was held in Paris
on January 31, 1980, and was attended by representatives from eight countries
and six international organizations, Nepal received aid indications exceeding
US$200 million equivalent.
18.       Although foreign aid commitments and disbursements grew by over
25% annually during the Fifth Plan period, only 40% of disbursements included
in the Government's budget were from foreign borrowing, the remainder being



- 6 -
grants. As of December 31, 1979, official foreign debt outstanding was only
$125 million, of which $106 million was due to multilateral agencies. These
loans were obtained on a highly concessional basis and the grant element of
total aid remains in excess of 90%. As a result, debt service payments were
only US$3.1 million during 1978/79, equivalent to less than 2% of exports of
goods and services.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
19.       Bank Group operations in Nepal began in FY70 with an IDA credit
of US$1.7 million equivalent for a telecommunications project. Since then,
23 additional credits have been approved, and another for a Hill food produc-
tion project, scheduled for consideration by the Executive Directors on
February 3, 1981, bring total IDA assistance to Nepal to US$279.1 million
equivalent, net of cancellations. In view of Nepal's many development needs,
this assistance has been for projects in a wide variety of sectors. Six of
these sectors account for 81% of IDA credits by amount: irrigation ($78.5
million for 6 projects); water supply and sewerage ($46.8 million for 3
projects), power ($40.8 million for 1 project); telecommunications ($21.7
million for 3 projects); highways ($19.2 million for 2 projects); and rural
development ($19.0 million for 2 projects). The remaining $53.1 million of
IDA assistance is for one project in each of the areas of settlement, techni-
cal education, tourism, technical assistance, forestry, grain storage, indus-
trial development financing and Hill food production. The proposed credit
would be the fifth in FY81, bringing the total amount of IDA assistance to
Nepal to US$296.6 million equivalent, net of cancellations. No Bank loans
have been made to Nepal. IFC made its first investment in Nepal ($3.1 mil-
lion) in a hotel project in Kathmandu in FY75. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank Group operations as of October 31, 1980, and notes on the
execution of ongoing IDA projects. It shows certain delays in the implemen-
tation of these projects, particularly during the initial periods. These
delays have been largely due to Nepal's limited technical and managerial
capabilities. In order to assist Nepal in coping with this constraint,
considerable technical assistance is being given by Bank Group staff, includ-
ing our Resident Mission in Kathmandu. As a result, improvement in the rate
of disbursements is being realized. During FY80, US$22.6 million equivalent
were disbursed compared to US$42.8 million equivalent disbursed during the
entire previous nine years.
20.       Bank Group lending to Nepal has increased steadily, but still remains
at a modest level compared to the country's need for external assistance. The
international community has shown considerable interest in Nepal's economic
development and, to date, shortage of funds has not been a bottleneck. The
main constra,nt on the utilization of increased aid has been Nepal's limited
absorptive capacity, affecting the pace of project preparation and implementa-
tion. The Bank is assisting the Government in project preparation through the
Technical Assistance Credit (Credit No. 659-NEP) and by acting as Executing
Agency for a number of technical assistance projects financed by UNDP. The
Bank Group has also addressed the problem of absorptive capacity through its
role in organizing t.. Aid Group for Nepal (para 17).



- 7 -
21.       The Bank Group's current strategy places major emphasis upon the
directly-productive sectors (particularly agriculture) and the development
of complementary infrastructure, including feeder roads (particularly those
connecting the Hills to the Terai), communications and hydroelectric power.
Preparation of projects in irrigation, cottage industry, technical education
and power is under way.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
22.       Agriculture is the key sector for Nepal's economic development:
farm production and related activities contribute more than 60% of GDP, pro-
vide almost 90% of employment and about 75% of merchandise exports, mostly
foodgrains2 jute and oilseed. Only about one sixth of Nepal's gross area of
141,000 km is cultivable. Foodgrains account for about 90% of cropped area,
rice being the most important (50%), followed by maize, wheat, other cereals
and pulses. The rest of the cropped area is under oilseeds, jute, potato,
tobacco, sugarcane and horticultural crops. Growth of agricultural production
(average 1.1% per year 1970-77), which is largely determined by foodgrain
performance, has not kept up with population growth. Growth has primarily
come from area expansion since yields have largely stagnated (para 11).
23.       The Government has had to moderate its earlier approach to regional
specialization according to comparative advantage (foodgrains in Terai vs.
horticulture, tea and livestock in Hills) in view of the need for an adequate
foodbase in the Hills. The role of the Terai will continue to be the genera-
tion of domestic and exportable foodgrain surpluses as a resource for further
development. Since area expansion is limited in the Terai, emphasis will be
given to increasing yields, mainly by an expansion and upgrading of existing
irrigation infrastructure and inputs. Initial results from the IDA-assisted
Birganj Irrigation Project (Narayani Zone) indicate that substantial yield
improvements can be expected from improved irrigation water supply combined
with increased agricultural inputs and effective extension services.
24.       Agricultural Institutions.  Four major Ministries deal with agricul-
ture: the Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MFA); the Ministry of Forest; the
Ministry of Land Reform; and the Ministry of Water Resources. MFA includes
the Department of Agriculture (DOA) which is responsible for agricultural
extension, training and research. MFA also has overall responsibility for a
number of public sector corporations which include the Agricultural Inputs
Corporation, the Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal (ADBN) and the Nepal
Food Corporation. In general, like many other government agencies, agricul-
tural institutions suffer from lack of trained staff.
25.       Agricultural Extension.  The Director General of Agriculture (DG) is
assisted by a Deputy Director General (DDG), Extension and Training. In each
of the four development regions of Nepal (the Eastern, Central, Western and
Far Western Regions) a Regional Director of Agriculture supervises district
level development and extension programs which are directed at the district
level headed by a District Agricultural Development Officer/Assistant Agricul-
tural Development Officer (ADO/AADO). Each ADO/AADO is assisted by a number



- 8 -
of Junior Technicians (JT) and Junior Technical Assistants (JTA) each receiving
two years and one year training, respectively. A recent innovation has been
the employment of Agricultural Assistants (AA) at the village level, selected
from among progressive farmers and retired service men. AAs receive minimal
training and serve on a part-time basis.
26.       The DOA has a well established Farm Information and Communication
Unit at headquarters to produce pamphlets, posters, charts and training aids.
The Unit has developed a systematic program of farm radio broadcasts. kn
Information Officer is provided in each of the four Regional Directorates.
27.       Many factors contribute to the relatively low level of effectiveness
of the extension service. The JTs and JTAs are required to devote time to
tasks outside their technical field, including much reporting. Production
targets for various crops and for other activities, for example, fertilizer
use, are often rentrally determined and bear little relation to local condi-
tions, priorities or resources. Usually, work programs are more relevant to
a small number of farnnrs, who are often the more advanced and with larger
holdings.   uipervision and ttcthniical bi.ckstopping are not intensive   Ef.1--
tiveness of lxtension services is also constrained by undependakle -"sso
poorly deveioped irrigation systems, inadequate budgetary support and stdtf
training and lack of communication, transportation and housing facilities at
the village level. In addition, extension work in the field is not systemat-
ically carried out, and the linkage between research and extension needs to be
improved.
28.       As part of Bank-assisted irrigation projects in the Terai, 1/ the
Training and Visit System of Extension has been introduced in Sunsari, Morang,
Bara, Parsa, Rautahat, and Rupandehi districts and a part of Kanchanpur dis-
trict. Encouraging results have been obtained in Bara, Parsa, and Rautahat
districts, where work is advanced.
29.       Agricultural Research.  Agricultural research is the responsibility
of a second DDG of Agriculture. The research service operates a total of 52
establishments located throughout the country. These establishments consist
of (a) research stations, (b) research centers, and (c) research farms, mainlv
for seed multiplication. The research service is responsible for providing
information based on basic and applied agricultural research for development
of all the regions and climatic zones of Nepal. Considerable progress has
been made under the Integrated Cereals Project (ICP), which is assisted by
USAID. The program has shown the benefits of coordinated approach to rice,
wheat, and maize research and production but much more applied and adaptive
research is needed for increasing crop production. Major problems preventing
the research programs from operating efficiently are: (a) insufficient operat-
ing funds for materials, supplies and equipment; (b) inadequate facilities at
a number of research stations; and (c) shortage of research staff working in
different agroclimatic zones on location specific problems. Transportation
1/   Birganj (Narayani Zone) Irrigation Project Stages I & II (Credits 373 and
856), the Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project (Credit 654), the Sunsari-
Morang Irrigation and Drainage Development Project (Credit 856), and the
Mahakali (Stage I) Irrigation Project (Credit 1055).



- 9 -
and mobility are constraints not only to conducting research but also to field
testing.
30.        Education and Training.  The Institute of Agriculture and Animal
Science, Rampur, has responsibility for training JTAs (one year course) and
JTs (two year course). It also has a three year course for Diploma in Agri-
cultural Science (equivalent to B.Sc. Agriculture). About 180 persons have so
far been trained in the diploma course. In addition, a few selected candidates
are sent abroad for post graduate training in a range of agricultural sciences.
31.        Inservice training for all categories of staff is organized by the
Extension and Training wing of DOA. Each year, about 400 extension staff are
provided inservice training at the training centers, research stations, and
farms with the help of local trainers and crop specialists, but the training
program is handicapped by the shortage of suitable courses, training facili-
ties and trainers.
32.        Agricultural Credit.  The major source of institutional credit is
the Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal (ADBN), established in 1973. It
is expected to provide the overall credit requirements of agriculture and
agro-based industries, and ensure effective mobilization of rural savings.
The Sajha (cooperative) program provides short term production credit to its
members using funds made available by ADBN. More recently, commercial banks
have also become involved in rural credit.
33.        ADBN provides loans to individuals, companies, and institutions
engaged in agricultural production. More specifically, it provides: (a) short,
medium and long term credit to cooperatives and corporate bodies engaged in
agriculture; (b) loans directly to farmers for the purchase of seed, fertil-
izer, pesticides, farm machinery, and irrigation equipment; (c) investment in
small scale industries engaged in processing farm products and manufacturing
inputs required for agriculture; and (d) banking facilities in places where
commercial banks are not established. ADBN's standard terms are 18 months for
short term loans with a 14% interest rate per annum, 7 years for medium term
loans at 11% interest rate p.a., and 20 years for long term loans with an 8%
interest rate p.a. Rediscount facilities available to ADBN through the Rastra
(Central) Bank provide 6% spread, which is considered sufficient to cover
operating and administrative costs. Total lending operations of the ADBN have
increased substantially, rising from NRs 76 million in FY1973/74 to NRs 262
million in FY1977/78. Most farmers are still reluctant to approach institu-
tional agencies for credit, mainly due to lengthy and complicated procedures
for borrowing, and difficulties in establishing collateral for loans. Absence
of technical know-how in commercial banks is a factor restricting expansion of
their lending.
34.        Cooperatives.  The Sajha development program was introduced in early
1976 to revitalize the cooperative movement, mobilize local savings, and to
link economic development with decentralization at the local level. Sajhas
provide credit, agricultural inputs, marketing facilities, and some basic
consumer goods (diesel oil, kerosene, course cloth, salt, rice and sugar).
Each Sajha serves on average three to four panchayats.  Further, at the



- 10 -
village level, they also act as the local agent of the Agricultural Inputs
Corporation (AIC).
35.       Agricultural Inputs.  AIC, established in its present form in
1975/76 is responsible for the supply of inputs to farmers. Its functions
include: (a) importation and distribution of chemical fertilizers and main-
tenance of stock; (b) collection, processing, storage and distribution of
improved seeds and assistance to DOA in conducting seed multiplication pro-
grams through contract growers; (c) procurement and distribution of pesticides;
and (d) distribution of locally manufactured agricultural tools and implements
as well as importation and distribution of agricultural machinery. AIC's
sales of inputs in 1978 are estimated at 54,000 tons of fertilizer, 2,520 tons
of improved seeds, pesticides costing NRs 1.9 million and agricultural imple-
ments costing NRs 2.6 million.
36.       Nepal does not manufacture chemical fertilizer and depends entirely
on imports, which are either financed by bilateral aid (2/3 in 1979/80) or by
direct purchase (1/3). Fertilizer imports are generally delivered through
Calcutta Port (India) and transported by road and train to the Indian/Nepalese
bo-rder. Internal distribution is then either by road or, in the hills and
mountains, by mules and porters. The transportation costs to some of the more
remote areas exceed the actual cost of fertilizer. Quantities of fertilizer
supplied under bilateral aid fluctuated substantially in recent years (37,000
tons in 1977/78, 42,000 tons in 1978/79 and 25,000 tons in 1979/80). The
total national consumption of fertilizers in 1977/78 was about 54,000 tons
which is about 6 kgs of nutrients per cropped ha. This is one of the lowest
application rates in the world and compares with levels of consumption in
neighboring India of about 25-30 kgs nutrients per ha. HMGN would like to
promote a substantial increase in consumption over the next five years, but is
uncertain about the availability of fertilizer provided by bilateral agencies
in view of the substantial decline in such supplies in 1979/80 and uncertainty
about levels of future assistance.
37.        In keeping with other countries in the region, HMGN subsidizes the
cost of fertilizers to farmers. The amount of this subsidy depends on the
prevailing retail price in India, as any price differential would result in
flows of fertilizer across the border. As a matter of policy, the Government
adopts a uniform price throughout the country, regardless of transportation
costs. The present sale price of Urea to farmers is NRs 3,000 (US$250) per
ton which corresponds to the price prevailing in India. This covers roughly
2/3 of the average total cost of fertilizer c.i.f. retail sales points, and
results in an average subsidy to farmers of NRs 1,543 (US$129) per ton. This
subsidy amounts to some 34% of the current retail price of Urea and is lower
than subsidies in Bangladesh (40%) and Pakistan (35-40%) where transportation
costs are much lower. HMGN provides AIC with either the foreign exchange to
purchase the fertilizers or the fertilizer received under bilateral assistance.
AIC returns the net proceeds of its fertilizer sales to the government. AIC
is not usually involved in retailing except in some remote hill areas.
Fertilizer is sold mostly through cooperatives (Sajha) or private dealers
where cooperatives do not exist.



38.       Agricultural Marketing.  The main institutions involved in agricul-
tural marketing are: (a) The Nepal Food Corporation (NFC), whose main respon-
sibility is to distribute foodgrains to food deficit Hill districts; (b) MFA's
Food and Agricultural Marketing Services Department (FAMSD), whose role is to
collect socio-economic and price data, analyze trade patterns, and establish
marketing systems, particularly in the Hills; and (c) The Rice Export Com-
panies which are quasi' government agencies, purchasing paddy either directly
from farmers or through Sajha cooperatives. The Government has recently
liberalized the export of foodgrains, and plans to place control of public
sector domestic and export trading in NFC and strengthen it so that it may
be better able to promote Government foodgrain policies. The Grain Storage
Project (Credit No. 1062-NEP) is assisting the Government in this effort.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       The proposed project was prepared by the Agricultural Projects
Services Center (Nepal) financed under the Technical Assistance Credit (Credit
No. 659-NEP). The project was appraised in May/June 1980. Negotiations were
held in Washington, D.C., in December 1980. The Nepalese delegation was led
by Dr. T.N. Pant, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Food and Agriculture. A report
entitled "Nepal - Staff Appraisal Report - Agricultural Extension and Research
Project" (Report No. 3104-NEP, dated January 5, 1981) is being circulated to
the Executive Directors. A supplementary data sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives
40.       The proposed project aims to achieve early and sustained improvement
in agricultural production, particularly foodgrains, in eight of the twenty
districts of the Nepalese Terai. The project would reorganize and strengthen
the agricultural extension services along the lines of the Training and Visit
system and upgrade and develop adaptive research in the districts of Jhapa
(Eastern Region), Sarlahi, Dhanusha, Mahottari, Chitwan (Central Region),
Nawalparasi, Kapilavastu (Western Region) and Banke (Far Western Region).
These districts have been selected since they are adequately staffed in terms
of JTs and JTAs and are contiguous with the six districts already provided
with improved extension service (para 28 above). Improvements of production
would be brought about by the wide adoption of low cost, labor intensive agri-
cultural practices, improved varieties of seeds and provision of fertilizer.
Project Description
41.       The main components of the project are:
(a) Reorganization and Strengthening of Agricultural Extension
Services. Provision of additional staff, housing, offices,
equipment, transportation and staff training designed to
consolidate the reorganization;
(b) Strengthening and Reorientation of Applied and Adaptive
Research. Development and upgrading of four regional
research stations and one substation by farm development,



- 12 -
provision of staff, machinery, equipment, laboratory
facilities, and vehicles;
(c) Project Monitoring and Evaluation. Establishment of
regular monitoring and evaluation procedures;
(d) Technical Assistance. Overseas training of project staff,
studies and provision of consultants; and
(e) Fertilizer. Provision of fertilizer in the project
districts.
Organization and Implementation
42.       Project activities would be carried out over approximately five
years through the Government's line agencies. Overall responsibility for
project implementation would be with the DG of Agriculture. By April 30,
1981, MFA would appoint a Project Coordinator, reporting to the DG, to be
responsible for ensuring implementation and coordination of all project
activities (Section 3.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement (DCA)).
Since extension and research activities should be maintained after completion
of the proposed proj-rt, the Government would establish permanent positions as
needed to employ incremental staff in accordance with a schedul- agreed .pcn
with the Association (Section 3.06(b) of the draft DCA). In all, about 32
additional professional staff, including the Project Coordinator, would be
appointed over a three year period, to meet both extension and research needs.
The remaining staff would be selected from DOA's existing staff. The adequacy
of staff would be reviewed by December 31, 1982, and, if necessary additional
staff would be employed (Section 3.06(e) of the draft DCA). The existing
Coordination and Progress Review Committee would ensure coordination of all
project activities at the national level. The Committee is chaired by the
Secretary, MFA, and includes the DGs and DDGs of Agriculture and Livestock and
Animal Husbandry and representatives of credit, input and marketing organiza-
tions.
Agricultural Extension
43.       Agricultural staff would be reorganized into a single line of com-
mand from the DG of Agriculture to the Panchayat Level Agricultural Assistant
(PLAA) at the Panchayat (village) level. Under the supervision of the respec-
tive Regional Director of Agriculture, an Agricultural Development Officer
(ADO) and an Assistant ADO would be responsible for extension work in each
district, assisted by two Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) and an adequate
number of JTs and JTAs. Full time PLAAs, with about 8 years of schooling and
a farming background and residents of the villages where they have to work,
would be recruited to carry out extension work at the village level. PLAAs
would visit farmers regularly and systematically to give them advice on farm-
ing practices best suited to their specific conditions. PLAAs would select
some progressive farmers to serve as contacts within their areas of operation.
Intensive pre-service and in-service training would be provided to extension
staff, and training facilities would be provided, one at each of the four
Regions (at Jhumka, Janakpur, Bhairawa and Nepalganj). Establishment of
these Regional Training Centers is already underway with assistance from IDA



- 13 -
(Jhumka), Japan (Janakpur), USAID (Nepalganj) and German Volunteer Service
(Bhairawa).
44.       The intensive program of visits to farmers would require extension
staff to live close to their areas of work, and suitably modest housing would
be provided for them under the project. Forty-three training sub-centers
would also be provided, each with a small office for the JT/JTA and a training
hall. Additional buildings for a hostel, dormitory, and classrooms; furniture
and equipment, incremental staff and training at the Regional Training Centers
at Bhairawa and Nepalganj, would also be provided. By December 31, 1981, the
Government would have selected the sites for offices, laboritories and houses
to be constructed under the proposed project and informed the Association of
progress made (Section 3.07(a) of the draft DCA). Twenty Panchayat level
warehouses would be constructed to meet additional inputs storage needs.
Transportation would be provided at the district and subcenter level. Loans
and allowances would be made available to JTAs for the purchase and mainte-
nance of bicycles, to facilitate contact at all levels with farmers (Section
3.08 of the draft DCA).
Applied and Adaptive Research
45.       The project would strengthen applied and adaptive research to pro-
vide practical answers to farmers' problems. Efforts would focus on princi-
pal crops grown under different agroclimatic conditions in the project area,
and on developing improved cultivation practices with early maturing, high
yielding varieties acceptable to farmers. Special attention would be paid
to dryland farming techniques, soil and water management, pest and disease
control, improved farm implements, and farming systems and cropping patterns
designed to increase farmers' income. Research would be conducted on a
multidiciplinary team approach, with staff devoting full time to research.
46.       The research effort would be decentralized and carried out in the
existing Regional Research Stations (RRS), one for each of the four develop-
ment regions: Nepalganj (Far Western Region), Bhairawa (Western Region),
Parwanipur (Central Region), and Tarahara (Eastern Region). Each station
would have a lead responsibility for research on specific crops. In addition,
two substations would be developed (Sarlahi and Hardinath in Central Region)
to ensure coverage of all major agroclimatic variations. Only a modest
increase in professional and support staff would be required. Laboratories,
offices, staff quarters and dormitories would be provided at the four RRSs
and at one substation. Staff training would be provided locally and through
fellowships abroad. Vehicles and motorcycles would be provided to enable
research staff to spend adequate time in the field, and for the transporta-
tion of seeds and other inputs.
Coordination Between Research and Extension
47.       Strengthening the linkage between research and extension would
ensure the widespread testing of research recommendations on farmers' fields
and transfer of suitable technology to farmers. At the district level the
linkage between research and extension would be the responsibility of the
District Technical Committee (DTC), which would be established in each of the
eight project districts. Each DTC would be chaired by the District's ADO,



- 14 -
and include the Research Outreach Officer, the SMSs, research workers and
farmers' representatives (Section 3.05(a) of the draft DCA). Each DTC would
make recommendations on the research priorities and adaptive trial needs in
the district. Each RRS would be headed by a Regional Research Coordinator
(RRC). A Research Outreach Officer would be provided at each RRS to train
SMSs, organize field trials, and maintain close liaison with extension wor-
kers. The RRC would hold regional workshops for research workers, and
extension and agricultural staff in his region, at least twice a year, to
discuss the recommendations of the DTCs and develop appropriate programs for
research, adaptive trials and extension (Section 3.04 of the draft DCA).
A Central Technical Committee (CTC), chaired by the DG of Agriculture, would
be established to review and approve or modify recommendations of DTCs and the
regional workshops for future research programs and extension activities to be
carried out by DTCs (Section 3.05(b) of the draft DCA). The CTC and DTCs
would be established by May 31, 1981, and meet at lest twice a year (Section
3.05(c) of the draft DCA).
Strengthening Agricultural Engineering Division of DOA
48.       The Agricultural Engineering Division of DOA is responsible for
agricultural machinery research and development, post harvest technology, and
construction and maintenance of departmental buildings. The Division under-
takes its present responsibilities reasonably well. However, in order to
enable the Division to carry out its increased activities under the project,
the Government would provide it with an Assistant Engineer at headquarters,
an Overseer for each project district, necessary equipment and consulting
architects.
Fertilizer
49.       Present consumption level of fertilizer in Nepal and in the proj-
ect area is very low (para 36 above). Demand for fertilizer is expected to
increase during the Sixth Five Year Plan period with the development of irri-
gation and extension services. The present level of fertilizer consumption in
the eight project districts is about 10,000 tons (gross) annually, equivalent
to about 21 kgs per cropped ha, or 7 kgs of nutrient per ha. With more inten-
sive extension activity, consumption is expected to reach some 35 kgs per
cropped ha (12 kgs of nutrients per ha), thus increasing the annual gross level
to 17,500 tons.  This increased consumption would require additional foreign
exchange, which is substantial in relation to Nepal's limited ability to earn
foreign exchange, considering declining foodgrain exports and the increasing
cost of its imports of fuel, development goods and other essential items, and
would increas. AIC's operations substantially. In order to plan for these
developments, ,ith assistance of a consultant acceptable to the Association,
the Government would, by January 31, 1982, complete a study, with terms of
reference acceptable to the Association, of the operations and technical
assistance needs of AIC (Section 3.10(a) of the draft DCA). By July 31, 1982,
the Government would formulate and furnish to the Association, a national
fertilizer strategy for fertilizer procurement, pricing and distribution
(Section 3.10(b) of the draft DCA).
50.       Pending the preparation and execution of the national fertilizer
program, and to avoid a situation in which the needs of the project area are



- is -
met at the expense of other areas in Nepal, the project would help meet the
immediate fertilizer needs in the project districts by financing the foreign
exchange cost of fertilizer required by farmers for the first two project
years. This would amount to 22,100 tons (10,500 in first year and 11,600 in
second year), at an estimated cost of US$8.37 million. The Government would
ensure that the fertilizer financed under the project be utilized in the
project area (Section 3.09(a)). AIC would be responsible for the purchase
of the fertilizer required and its distribution to the farmers.  The proposed
fertilizer program would increase agricultural credit needs and make addi-
tional demands on ADBN. The Government would review annually with the Asso-
ciation the credit needs of farmers in the project area (Section 3.09(b) of
the draft DCA), and would provide adequate funds to ADBN to meet these needs
(Section 3.09(c) of the draft DCA). Technical assistance is provided under
the project to review the working of ADBN and make recommendations for meet-
ing its current and long term financial, managerial and technical assistance
needs. Technical assistance to ADBN is also expected to be provided by the
International Fund for Agricultural Development and by the Asian Development
Bank under recently approved projects (Small Farmers Development Project and
Fourth Agricultural Credit Project, respectively). Technical assistance under
the proposed project would be coordinated with work under these two projects.
Technical Assistance
51.       The Government would employ consultants to assist in strengthening
research (18 man-months) and extension (24 man-months) activities, to study
the working of AIC and formulate recommendations for its improvement, to
carry out the study for development of a national fertilizer strategy and
program (6 man-months) and to review the working of ADBN and its technical
assistance needs (5 man-months). The average cost would be about US$6,500
per man-month. In addition to local training, scholarships would be provided
for about 128 man-months and 258 man-months of overseas training for research
workers and for extension staff, respectively.
Monitoring and Evaluation
52.       The Evaluation and Program Analysis Division (EPAD) of MFA would
monitor and evaluate project activities and benefits. By May 31, 1981, EPAD
would complete a format satisfactory to the Association of a benchmark survey
of the project districts (Section 3.11(a) of the draft DCA). EPAD would also
establish a monitoring and evaluation system (Section 3.11(b) of the draft
DCA) and carry out the benchmark survey (Section 3.11(c) of the draft DCA).
The Government would prepare a Project Completion Report and provide it to
the Association within six months of the Closing Date (Section 3.12(c) of
the draft DCA).
Cost and Financing
53.       The total project cost is estimated at US$20.85 million equivalent,
including US$70,000 of duties and taxes. The foreign exchange component is
estimated at US$13.3 million equivalent, about 64% of total project cost.
The proposed credit of US$17.5 million would finance US$12.7 million of the
foreign exchange cost of the project plus US$4.8 million of local cost,
amounting to about 84% of total project cost net of duties and taxes. Local



- 16 -
cost financing is recommended in view of the country's very limited capacity
to generate resources (para 17 above). UNDP has agreed in principle to
provide US$650,000 to finance the technical assistance component, and the
Government would contribute the balance of US$2.7 million. Execution of the
project agreement between the Government and UNDP would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed credit (Section 6.01 of the draft DCA).
Procurement and Disbursement
54.       Procurement of equipment and vehicles involving contracts above
US$50,000 and all procurement of fertilizer would be on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines. Orders of
less than US$50,000 would be purchased through local procedures satisfactory
to the Association. Civil works (US$3.8 million) would be small and scattered
throughout the project area, would not attract foreign contractors and would,
therefore, be let on the basis of local procedures satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation.
55.       Disbursements would be made against:  (a) 92% of expenditures for
civil works; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for fertilizer; (c) 100% for
foreign expenditures for imported equipment, furniture and vehicles, 100%
local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally manufactured goods and 75% of
local expenditures for other goods procured locally; (d) 36% of expenditures
for project staff salaries and allowances (equivalent to 85% of incremental
cost); and (e) 95% of local expenditures for other operating costs.
Benefits and Risks
56.       The project would directly benefit about 360,000 farm families.
Attributing a precise level of benefits to this type of project is difficult
since it is not possible to determine what proportion of benefits are due to
extension alone and what are due to additional purchased inputs and other
factors. In practice, it is the combination of a number of factors, with
extension playing the role of catalyst, that brings the desired benefits.
It is also difficult to estimate acceptance rates of recommended practices.
However, since the project relies primarily on reorganization and strengthen-
ing of existing extension and research structure, the incremental cost is
low per hectare and per family. Thus, a small and slow production increase
in the project areas as a consequence of the project would generate a high
rate of return. The project would be able to generate about a 50% rate of
return if, by 1988, yields of foodgrains increase by only 12 kgs per ha. One
significant feature of the system is that the practices initially stressed
by the extension service would focus on improving cultural practices (timely
operations, good land preparation, proper seed rates, and weeding) to maintain
adequate and healthy plant population over the cultivated area. As these
operations usually involve more work and little cash outlay, they are partic-
ularly well suited to the needs of small farmers. The project faces no special
risk.



- 17 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of Nepal
and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
58.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. A special condition of effectiveness would be that the Government
would have executed the Project Agreement with UNDP for the employment of
consultants.
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
January 14, 1981



- 18 -                                              ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
NEPAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NEPAL                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WFIGHTED AIRACES
LAND IAl EA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                        -  HOST RECENT ESTIMATE        
TOTAL              140. 8                                 MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME             MIDDLE lINCOE
AGR CiTLTI'RAL     40. 1               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
CUP PER CAPITA (USS)                     50.0         70.0      130.0                212.4                 1114.7
ENERGY CONUIMPTION PER CAPITA
(KlLCCRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          5.0         15.0       11.0               166.0                  842.4
POPULAI.ON AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)         9.3         11.4       13.6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  3. 1            3.9        4.8                20.8                   39. 1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                           21.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            46.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2160
POPUJLATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 1041.                        66.0         81.0       97.0               193.2                  376.1
PER SQ. RN. AGRICULTURAL LAND    243.0           286.0     339.0                409.6                 2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            40.3         42.0       42.4                42.0                   40.4
15-64 YRS.                            57.0         55.0      54.6                 55.0                   56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      2. 7         3.0        3.0                 3.0                    3.4
POPULATION GRNWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 1.1          2.0        2.2                 2.2                    2.4
URBAb'                                6.5          4.3        5.0                 3.9                    4.1
CRUDE BIRTB RATE (PER THOUSAND)        46.0         45.0       45.0                37.4                   28.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        29.0         23.0       21.0                14.6                    7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.0          3.0        3.2                  2.6                    1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..         37.4      138.8
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             0. 7/c     4.3/c              15.6                   39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           106.0         101.0      91.0                101.4                  116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRE4ENTS)                     93.0         96.0       91.0                 92.4                  108.9
PROTEINS (GRANS PER DAY)            50.0          51.0      48.0                 49.8                   60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          9.0          9.0        9.0                 12.0                   18.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        35.0         27.0       23.0                17.9                    5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    36.0            41.0       43.0                50.8                   63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                ..        152.0/d       ..                  ..                   52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..          2.0        9.0                30.2                   42.4
URBAb                                  ..         53.0       81.0                66.0                   62.1
RURAL                                  ..          ..         5.0                20.0                   29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  *           1.0        1. 0               17. 7                  52.8
UREBAN                                 *          14.0       14.0                71.3                   71.1
RURAL                                  ..          ..         ..                   ..                   42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            72000.0     49770. Ole 35207. O/e            6322.7                 4120.1
POPUIATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..      68320.0/e 51222.0                9459.0                 2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             8060.0       6750.0    6289.0                1758.4                  819.4
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..          ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..        ..                   ..                   28.8
liOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE 0F HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..          5.5
URBA-N                                5.4          ..          .
RURAL                                  ..           ..
AVERP AG E PRUMBER OF PERSCNS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
TRBAN                                 2.0          ..
ARALh                                 ..           ..          .                    ..
UC'ESS .0 ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF TN;ELLlNG5)
TO';AL                                 ..           ..         .                    ..
URBAN                                30.2           ..
R'JRAL                                 ..           ..



- 19 -                                         ANEX I
Pave 2 of R pageg
TABLE 3A
NEPAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHCCT
NEPAL                        RICRECUCE C ROUFS plFICHTID AYtFS
LANi AEEA (THOUSAND SQ. KIM.j                                                  - ST ItEC ESTIMATEfl
TUTAL            140.8                                MOST RECT            LOW ITNCOE           NIDOLS 111001
AGRICULTURAL      40. 1             1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE lb       ASIA & PACIFIC       ASIA & PACIPIC
GNP PLR CAPITA tUS$)                  50.0        70.0     130.0              212.4               1114.7
ENERGY CONSIMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      5.0         15.0      11.0              166.0               862.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
PCPILATION, KID-YEAR (HILLIONS)     9.3         11.4      13.6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 3.1          3.9       4.8               20.6                39.1
POPCLATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      21.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        46.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2160
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      66.0         81.0      97.0              193.2               376.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    243.0       286.0    339.0               409.6               2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 Y9S.                         40.3        42.0      42.4               42.0                 40.4
tS-t4 YRS.                        57.0        55.0      54.6               55.0                 56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  2.7         3.0       3.0                3.0                  3.4
POPULATION CRCIWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1. 1        2.0       2.2                2.2                  2.4
URBAN                              6.5         4.3       5.0                3.9                  4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    46.0        *5.0       45.0               37.4                28.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    29.0         23.0      21.0               16.6                  7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.0         3.0       3.2                2.6                  1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..         37.4    13L.8
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOKEN)   ..          0.7kc    4.3j               15.6                39.t
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-lO)        106.0       101.0      91.0              101.4                116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  93.0        96.0      91.0               92.4                108.9
PROTEINS (GRANS PER DAY)          50.0        51.0      4.0               49.8                 60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       9.0          9.0       9.0               12.0               1.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     35.0       27.0      23.0               17.9                  5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   36.0        41.0      630                50.3                 63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            *-       152.0d       ..                 ..                 52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         2.0       9.0              30.2                 62.4
URBAN                              ..         53.0      81.0               66.0                62.1
RURAL                              ..          ..       5.0               20.0                 29.,7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
UF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         1.0       1.0               17. 7               52.3
URBAN                              ..         160       14.0               71.3                 71.1
RURAL                               ..         ..        ..                 ..                  2.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        72000.0    49770.0._j 35207.0/o           6322.7               4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        ..     68320.0O. 51222.0             9459.0               2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           8060.0      6750.0   6289.0              1758.4               3l9.4
URBAN                              ..
RURAL                              ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..        ..                 ..                 2L8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              *-          5.5
URBAN                              5.4
RURAL                              ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROCK
TOTAL                              ..
URBAN                              2.0
RURAL                              ..
AC,CESS T0 ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF D'ELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..
URBAN                             30.2
RUtRAL                             ..



- 20 -                                                    ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5 pages
LEtPEIT:105If O~SOCIAL INDICA~TORA
hoit.   Although the date are dreos  fro   ore   eeal  judged the sost .utho,itati-ve   n. rliable, it should alec be noio that they  ay cot he inter
nnoaly ounpa...hil  b-ocoe  of the laco    tndrded definition  eod .....epe usd bY diff s..ent o..oorise to cllec.ting the data.  The det Iar,   oe
thaises,  -efu1 so deso.nlb. orders 'f eagoicud. indicate cesoda, and oheroterise  -ertein majordferoa  betns...oo...trla..
The refrec    ,goPs are (I1 thees  cuty  ru  o   h  sub-teot -oorItry aed (2) aIonr  group.f ol   soewhatihigh-e arsegs iooom  thanoh   orr    n.
of oh  eujco   uos Iscp  for  'CapitlSrus l foI                      rr"grupohr  "Middle Bo... Notc  At  Iaad Mfiddls las' teobh.sen bacousIo  esrroc
nooto-oulcrol offlotima).   Inshe refeenos geoopdate the  vareges ae populIn is weighte iarith i,eic ..eans ror.each idicitor cd shows-olylwhet a
Isaac  bolt of the coun.tries in a group bee deco forc'hat indi-etr.  Sio.e tbn coeag   f Ic..soelee....g ohs irdicetor. dpsode on ch. ov-ilebillst  o
data en  i  not uniform, .. ouios, suet.be soescisd  Ir re1atlg  vsae  of oIe lodl-tor to soother.  Thea  ssrgs  arm only use ful in toepse log cbho..
ofoei.diceDa I      tim   mn  th. country sod referesos groups.
LAND AREA (thousan.d sqik.)                                                                    roeoeion Len Phvecca  -Popimto  ainlaso hp ta-b- IS prso.--gf p,-
Tonal - ToL1 surface are  oprsi~ land ares ad  .inlaoocesliasqmified tram a medical school at ut-rL.ty level.
Agri..lcur.1 - tE.lue  feriuralI area, ues  tespotaril                  p     .ly orprasty    Posl....on  per Surln  Pereco - PopulatIon divided by tasher utpao
for  -rpa, postures, narkn cud hitches gardens or to lie fallow; 1977 data,                 sale and female graduate   uss  practical  .or.ee  and asoct              oa
AspPE CI APITA (1119    GNTP por ..pit.  -sisan  atcrrrc  akst pricos. oat-                      ubn   o ,rural  di2      e   yterrsenr   obro   opclb
ouse Ly-at   cvrio. tschod Ie Word bobt Atla  (1970-79 Ass is); 19A0,                 soilabla in public and pritvan   genrl  n   pecielieed boepitcl aodi-
1970, aod  1979data.                                                                           habilitanti    eosrs   Hospital  ar -etblhisfa         tn  pe.mas..nly staffed
bye  -lan  n  physiian,.LtE.t.bliebhemne ps-iding principally  -uanadia1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - A onual ocsunption of  toece   ory(ca                             enc    o  incloded.  Ioe  hospitals..  -eee.iouehat   n   eia
"rIny   In kilogem o- f -oseqivuInt Par.c. pica:1981 .91,n   97                                nus. dife., etc.) which offer is-patien             t ao  bdyo I   od  provIde    t
data.                                                           liaised renos of sodlAal faoilities.   for statistical porposee orbas hospi-~~f.ilii.    r    ItLi  i..  P.L...Prb.'h.pi
tabs i lolde WHO. principai general sed sp.oilissd bhpitela, * ad rural
POPUL.ATION AtOD VITAL. STATISTICS                                                               hospitals 1-01 It coral  opitaa enmdical end maternity cnes
Tonal Populunio..  Mod-fea  (ei2lios ..     do of July 1; 1960, 1970, sod i97f              admissions Per Hopita 1d- Toalnahn  of admissions no or dis-h-ogr
dat,I                                                                                        from  hospitals dtnidsd by ohs otmber of bde.
Toban PpulatIo  (enecen  of total) -Rtacl  of urban to tonl pupolution;
diffrentdefiitios o      ..e asses may affect oomparobility of dens               HusN
usong . cutrie; 1980, 1970. end 19TH daco.                                                Asra... Sir! of House,hold lspre...  P.r h...,h,dl   total, urb.. aod era1-
t   I                                                  ~          ~~       ~    ~~~~~~~~~~AIhueod cnIst f a grou  of imd ividul  de hor iigqatr
Pocusoln I  rea  111 -Cuoren  population p-o)eotionsar  based on 1980                and     h.-i mansas        ore   rlde   a               my not"hoincuedg
totol Population by  gs sod Sen and thal  marnoi!ty and frtlinty rates..s .. boshnldf   statisticl1 purposes.
Poojantlon parasater  for sornliyraecoPrs  of thre  levls-                   sus        Aveoax  number ot  IerIm  ncr ro-toal, urban, end ruca1 - A-eregs mI.
ing life eaperstmoy an birth  iosio with coun try's par c.pit. income                     her of persons per roan1, lo alluban, and rural ecoopid coo.a-tiona.l
OralI, and f-1al  life  e-pecns...y stbilioieg an 7P0.5 psors.  The pare-                 dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings smlue  c-persaet stu   urend
manors f r fertnitinpets als  hove those 1-ml  asuin  decline in                           n uidprs
fertlity IccLodimg to Income leve  endpuc family plenaing prorace                       -uns  to.i Elecricty    acn   fdeligl-ttl   rb                       n   ua
aud frIlity trenda for projootint prposes.                                                of total, urban, and rurL1 dwollinges-p-tci-ly.
Sctiunur. ooc'ulntion -InoInantitary population theesto Lcc grown since
the birth role is n,u.I no the deanh rats  a-d also oh,sg    .cruocuer-               EDUCATION
maoontoo;t. hsi          lvdol  ater fIrtilicy  ra9:.tos  eoiost                    se       oolatPto
of semen rpI.oe. itself aoeotly.  The statoaypplto.csoeerimeto   l   gsa   h    rsc   a                                                        sPrnnaeofreeotc
Ieleted 0  the basis of ths projentd  hbrannerietics of ths population                      primaryschool-ag       puotheme poomay Incldeschtdre  .gad                   t.1
to oh  year 2000, med thean  oft decIne o-f fartility runeto rePlc-year  ho   dote   e    ifeetlogbdfpimr   dcain   o
'fear statnnar  nopulaction is menobd - The ysr when stationar y populaton                     sineson  pupi. Ite  retelo .0 shvenb   offiota dschoo   ag.,.
ela  heee  reahed                                                                   ysndr  school - netl. male and femal  - Cospotad as shots ; secoedury
Mldyoulacioo Dceeqirnklv                                                               re10  ht..     fdu...etionreqoirms an leas.t tour years of spyrnoed primary itastrutio
Pt e.t.1    -Hdya   ouato    e   qaeblmee   10bcae)o                                          provides gen.rLI, vocationl, or ne..nh.r training imetrunti.n. foe PUePi
PerP so. . asriculturel land - Computed as shov  for agicultarL.  lood                        us..nllyodad1.y..fg.    ..p. ..   .  ..   t                              - l
only.                                                              Icoa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t iona  esroi11et iseron o.   f ...coedery) - Oncatiomal icetitution
fpoclecio- Ass Struot.re Ireroe,t) - Children (0-lA years), worbieg-ego (15-                     inuetnonl    eunil   rote_rgeswihoeaeidpe
_Ayas,ad  taird (65yersed ove) as percen.tages of aid-year ppup-                        dandy or asdprtet   f  sodaylaitto
Faton  190  17,n  10  dana.t.1Pou1-tee..bhr ratio   eri_en  edenodorn-Tota  std-st  earelld in
year populaim   for 1 950-Hf,1960-PI, en  1971G-79.                                            oorrsposdi4  level.dry1       .diddbyu r                   f - r  ith
Pou =tioIrwt  Sn  leeroenl   urban - A-otl geowh runes of urbo p.pO-                    Adult licssvrt   nrsnI-   ieaeaut   aben,adedwie
lotions for 1950-hO, 1960-70, sod 1870-OH..I  . ..e.eecnnge of total adult populetion aged 15 yIc  andovr
Crudo Birtch Oats lpsr thonmod) - A--oI live births per thousnd of aid-year
popolation; 196 0, 1970, end 1978 data.                                                 CONSetfQTIcN
Crude co  hotsh R  (ceo, thouneed)l -BAosnal deaths per tho..a.d o f mid-peer                Pssnae  ar p-c thoasand populatiue  - P..... gar care  epis   eo
pouato;190, 1970, and197Hdata.                                                           Lase  in  less. tho- eigbn posns   nludes  abuls..o... heass-             n
loose hcoduon-o Sate -Average. ouber of daught.trseaosllha  inilitary vehicle.
her norma  roprod-ociv- pcriod if sheenprien...s preset  ge-pei'fi  tsr                   gai    nirc_er thousad eoeuloniorj - All typse of rciesfor mdi,
duty   ases;usualy fins-year aveage  ending in 1980, 1970. ad100.                      broadcasts no E gerol public per thouson.d of population; entludas osli-
faiyPoan     uceous   mouul (Lnuans  - Anual camber of ..c.eptore                     cesdircies  acortead    ysere ehon registrenian cf radio 
of blrch-oneneol dentoIsundr s   ines of notiona  famEily.planning program.                 ne inefo;  esfr recn-               er   a   c   e  oprbesaes
Pamly  laolng- lses(eacet of marriad nnn    - P etago of macoid                       coutries obu1ished licsosing.
wor   f child-beariag age(.15-A4 yearL.  oho use birch-contrl1 devices to             TVtRcias(o  thoe.d.              nneia)-TV rec..ivore for broadost cc
all married women in same agr group.                                genarol~~.  public per thoosand popnlation; anclude  uniond TO recever
PFWD ANtD fMIOTtTTlH                                                                             in countries and in years  h.. r-gina cla.fti           saswe  oefet
HNeencerL Cirtulation  (per theosen   porulatien) -iSbw  the avrg    ircl.-
Iodn of Pond Production pen C"Pic  (196h9-7i-Ot   -  nden of percaiouna                        tie  of I diy genral increst nwpp",dfie ah                    p o       Ica   pub-
pcodoctioo of allfod   -cIlnities         rndc        ..nulude  moo  andted nd.lotinddoedpimrlyt  rcrde   geaa  nesdni  ongse
isocaedr 7000 hasia.  Cooditieeoavsr primary goode (e.g. eugar-am c-h diy ttiit appears an leas t foue tImaawIeb.1,
nte   fIsgar)  hbich ore edible- end .cotain nutir-et  (e.g. coffee end              Cmaa  ona  Attondeno  mr Cpitna ear Ye-g-a-d  on the nuber of
ten aeeoudod).  Aggregate productIon of eac h country is base.d on
Ieolina  evraga peoduo.sr price omighte; 1961-A5, 1970,.and 1978 data..                      ndtbinsld duigteya,to.igemisosn   rv-nonia
Percaic  ecrv  f  alris  netIt of renuicemete  -Conpotd fro                         n  mbl  aie
ene rgy sqinalnnof_     s  foo IopLIos availble in cetr  per .a.pita.                  AP  oc
per day.  Available euplsscoprisa dometic pnoduction, import  sI                        Tosa1 Lehor Porte (thousands) -  o        ocly  cive pesn . lnludtng
_oon,ed changes in stoob.  HNI  supplies enlde onimal feed,osd,                      amdfrsanospoydhtecuigouvve, tdns.t.
qunI I Ie ue  tfodpcesn,mdlseindsrbin.Gqce                                               Dfiniin in  alo   onri           es ae nt cpa-ble; 19h0. 1970 end
setI were e    atl ed by PAC basd onphysiological.. neds for ara  moti-                  1978 dote.
viny ed health considering  evrnatltamperetuo. body weighte, age                         eee ocn)-Paslbrfre  spretg   fttllbrfre
sod see denribucio  of popouf ion, ad ellowOH  11 percot for wete 5t   Aninulture( -er 1as 1)- bLabor rorce pte tfrming, tr ta1ry, b    rtfn r en
,hoos..hold local  1961-65,190an  177 data,                                                 fishing am par...tage of total Isbhar forte; 1960. 19700sod 199dae
Pe  oe  pp ucly cf crutei  Caress pr doyl - Proteincon.tent of pef ..pit.           Indamtr  (cement) - Lahor fort  in miig  cnnunin  aefctr
net supply of fond Pen daY.  Net sopply of fond isdfie.d so  bhne   Re.n-lorot,wtredgsa   sretg   ftnllbrfre   90
quiremete for all coon tries setablisbhd by USDA pso-ide for minimt                       190  andr1978 dec.l  .   .   .pr..t9                     ..    ..    ..          90
allowenco o  60 gRea of  tota  proteio per day  nd 2  grII oH animal end                Parcicinatie   Oats icero...) - ntl, male, and deals - Participation  or
pleprotin, of whioh 10  rEa shud be animal protein,  These stand-                      annivty rates are nosutnd as ctel., sale, and femal  labor f.cro.a
arda use 1mv tAho thos.c  75 gaso   tona  protein and 23 gram  of-..rpt ly
as e  sorag  f n to wold  prpose  byPM   n to Tird   per tmnges of ntal., mal  sed femle popolation Of alm                 epciey
enteal protein                     d,pp ..d  y  A   i  t.  hid                  1960,1 190, end 1975 data,  Tasaeh           L'..cilalc  ae    efetn
Wonld Pond na-y; 1961-65, 1971  nd1977 data
Per  .polt. crotaim  surely from enia1 end roles -              Iroo sply of food de-        ag-sneno_efh  ppaio. a  long time trend   At fo-eti
riedfomatIl  and polees is, gram   poe day; 1961-65, 1900 and 1970 date.    tnoi  eaeen   at      a                      f  ooainadr1   n   5adoe
Child (sass 1-A)Mrtlt  Oas(a housand) - Annual deaths pertho-e  in                             c  ths total  Wmbar foro..
age gr.ap 1-4 years  so children in thla ege groop; f. or-e  devloping coo-
tries deto d-cived from  lIfe tables; 1960, 1900 end 1977 dat.r                         NgCOsen OuISoRBUTOs
Percentage of PrivLn Incm   (both in cash sad bid) - HR.eive  by rtobeen
HALEdO                                                                                           5 pec  n   tba   0pcet    ors   fp.-to , and 4pu pretA   peoIt
tf aEn-t...c tc 1mb vth        e               u vrg abec of ynars of life remining          of       t roahod.ht20pL t..o.t0
ebith; 1990  1900 and 1978 deca.d,
Infantg ItonnatLy Oats icopr thoond   A- -Ian   doatbe of infants coder  -5  Year    POVERTY TARGET GIROUPS
of agI prthusc   Iv  births.                                                              Es_Gtiagtd Absolote Povety   om  Level (US5 oc    e                 b)     rhe  and rural -
Access to Safo Water (rercet of  -ocletion) -tnl ura,ed rural - N.coepvet   noelee   sto  inom  level beoehcamiml
camber of P-PI,le otetl. urben, sorra)  itnh rc-s-nnabls  ccs  no mafe                           1t:Pl    .-od.   l.    ..  i1..fd-~r                              t   i 
water supp1y (includes trentd  orfca enters Hr ustreanad bunucotmiae                         nffnntdmllyeean   itpu   satalosHn,stfmnsi   o
water such as t-    fLro  protected borehol, springs  end eunitarysel)a                    Estimated Ralatins Povrty  LI-em  Lewdl (lOB  s    anne  - ormbAmsn  rural-
peroac.tge o.  f their respacltiv   ppuaics.I  an  rbus area a pbIc                                  eatv    oet  incom_ leve  is oL         -hrdo   sespinecaita
fone    r  Indct moaned not mars than 2c0  metres from  a house may he             R.   ..i-p c-                                           d:-f          t
coaiocd  s  etg within rIunbI   access...-at  rho  hous..  ln rura  ara               eenltcm    fsh   onr.Ihnlvlisdsrdf                                  h   ua
roaansleecesvmId imply thatthohooi a  rsnee  ftohusb                                    ee  wit  adutet.o.ie   cs   fliigi1rhmaes
do not here to spod a disproprori-ts Part of the day to fething  the                        aiotdPeuaio   ao  AbouePvrr eoeLvlicrat      r
Gf_Ily' sae   nes                                                                            and rural - Per to   oplto              Lubanadrrl  woe rasLon  cot.r
Ac....  to  noen  Dianneel ioercent of a.....late  -ttl.uba    o
dis.posal apecngsof their repective populations.  Etocrta die-E- Gonsd  end fonid  Bets Bivisine
p  -sa   ma   toclde the colstnmd disposl, with or sithon  teamet                                                  Ec...sit Analysis end ProJeotiom   Dspercssn
ofhua  serete and waste-acer by wtrbon   ystem   cr the nee of                                                                             October 1980
pin privies and similar lsmlno



- 21 -
ANNEX I
Pag- 6 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1978: US$120 a/
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1978                                ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH. 1965-78
(1, constant prices)
US$ Mln.      2
GDP at Market Prices                 1,633       100.0                   2.3
Gross Domestic Investment              147        9.0
Gross Domestic Saving                   33         2.0
Current Account Balance (axc.
grants)                              -47       -2.9
Exports of Goods, NFS                   82        5.0
Imports of Goods, NFS                  245       15.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1977
Value Added
Value Added              Labor Force b/          Per Worker
USS Mln.    S..A          USS Mln.      2               US$
Agriculture                            996       68.0            5.9       93.0             169
Industry                               132        9.0            0.1        2.0           1,320
Services                               337       23.0            0.3        5.0           1.123
Total/Average                   1.465      100.0            6.3      100.0             233
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
C2JTRAL GOVERNMENT
Rs. Mln.
Z of CDP
1976/77      1977/78       1978/79       1979/80       1978/79
Current Receipts                      1,302.2       1,559.3       1,811.9      1,747.6          8.4
Current Expenditures                    784.f         815.0      1,041.7      1l195.5           4.9
Current Surplus                         518.1         744.3         770.2        552.1          3.6
Capital Expenditure                   1,486.4       1.792.9      1,978.8       2,346.6          9.3
izternal Assistance (Not)               538.1        830.7         989.4       1,363.8          4.6
MDNEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
1976      1977       1978      1979       1980
(aid-April)
(Milliom  Rs outstanding mid-July)
Money and Quasi Money                     2.524      3,223     3.772      4,512      5.249
Bank Credit to Public Sector                480        750       966      1,129      1,336
Bank Credit to Public Enterprise            567        511       869      1,080      1,156
Bank Credit to Private Sector               716        864     1,072      1,332      1,849
Money and Quasi Money as Z of GDP          14.5       18.7       19.3      21.1
General Price Index (1973/74 - 100)       115.9      119.0     132.3      136.8      153.0
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                        -0.7        2.7       11.2       3.5       12.0 e/
Bank Credit to Government                  67.8       66.3      28.9       16.9       30.7 d/
Bank Credit to Public Enterprises          -0.4      -9.9       70.1       24.3       16.9 A/
Bank Credit to Private Sector              -8.6       20.7      24.1       24.3       35.3 d/
Note:  All conversions to US dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
a/ World Development Report 1980.
b/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
c/ Estimate.
d/ April 1980 vs. April 1979.
not available



- 22  -                                               ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                  MERCRANDISE EXPORTS 1978/79 a/
uS$ Mln. 
1976177    1977/78      1978/79
(Millions US$)
Exports, f.o.b. b/                        93.9        88.8        108.6             Agricultural products                     84.3        78.0
Imports, c.i.f. b/                       166.9       209.7       242.7              Manufactures                              23.8       20.0
Trade Balance                      -73.0        120.9      -134.1                  Total                                108.1      100.0
Services, net                             39.4        47.6         64.9
of which:  Tourism                      23.0        30.2        41.4              EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1979
US$ Mln.
Transfers, net                            30.8        25.1         29.9
of which:  Private Remit.               21.5        18.3        25.3              Public Debt, inc. guaranteed                125.3
Indian Excise Fund         30.8         25.1         3.0              Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Current Account Balance             -2.8        -48.2       -39.3              Total Outstanding & Disbursed               125.3
(exc. grants)
Official Grants                           18.5        23.9         42.6
Official Capital, net                     16.3        22.7         35.7
Private Capital, net                     -10.3       -10.4          9.6             DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1978/79 c/
Change in Reserves                 -21.7         12.0       *-48.6             Public Debt, ioc. guaranteed                1.4
(- Increase)
Grods Reserves (aid-July)                i45.3       135.1        178.3
Net Reserves                             137.8       126.1        149.5             IBRD/IDA LENDING, (August 1980)(Millions US$L
IBRD        IDA
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports of which:  Petroleum           17.6         17.5        16.7              Outstanding & Disbursed                               55.7
Exports of which:  Petroleum            --           --          --               Undisbursed                               ----       149.1
Outstanding, incl. undisbursed                      218.4
RATE OF EXCHANGE
From October 1975
Through October 1975            through March 20. 1978           Since March 20, 1978
US$1.00 - NRs 10.56             US$1.00 - NRs 12.5               US$1.00 = NRs 12.00
NR 1.00 - US$ 0.095             NR 1.00 - US$  0.08              NR 1.00 - US$ 0.083
a/   Customs basis.
b/   Payments basis.
c/   Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not applicable
South Asia Programs Department
November 1980



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
A.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of October 31, 1980) /a
US$ Millions
Amount (less
cancellations)
Credit                                                                      Undis-
No.      Year         Borrower                Purpose               IDA   bursed
Three credits fully disbursed                                         7.1
373         1973     Kingdom of Nepal    Irrigation                   6.0      0.4
397        1973      Kingdom of Nepal    Telecommunications II    5.5          1.5
470         1974     Kingdom of Nepal    Water Supply and
Sewerage                11.8       2.8
505         1974     Kingdom of Nepal    Settlement                   6.0      4.6
600         1976     Kingdom of Nepal    Kulekhani
Hydroelectric           40.8      16.3
617        1976      Kingdom of Nepal    Rural Development            8.0      5.6
654         1976     Kingdom of Nepal    Groundwater                  9.0      2.3
659        1976      Kingdom of Nepal    Technical Assistance         3.0      1.2
704        1977      Kingdom of Nepal    Second Water Supply
and Sewerage             8.0       6.6
705        1977      Kingdom of Nepal    Industrial Development
Corporation              4.0       3.4
730         1977     Kingdom of Nepal    Second Highway              17.0     10.6
772        1978      Kingdom of Nepal    Technical Education          5.7      5.6
799         1978     Kingdom of Nepal    Telecommunications III  14.5         14.5
812         1978     Kingdom of Nepal    Irrigation                  30.0     28.0
856         1978     Kingdom of Nepal    Irrigation                  14.0     13.6
939         1979     Kingdom of Nepal    Second Rural
Development            11.0      11.0
1008       1980      Kingdom of Nepal    Forestry                    17.0     17.0
1055       1980      Kingdom of Nepal    Mahakali Irrigation /b  16.0         16.0
1059       1980      Kingdom of Nepal    Third Water Supply /b   27.0         27.0
1062       1980      Kingdom of Nepal    Grain Storage /c            6.2       6.2
Total Outstanding /d                       267.6
Total Undisbursed                                   194.2
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of October 31, 1980)
Amount of US$ Millions
Year         Obligor        Type of Business                Loan   Equity   Total
1975     Soaltee Hotel          Hotel                       2.70   0.43      3.13
(Pvt) Ltd.
Total commitments now held by IFC               2.27   0.43      2.70
/a   No Bank loans have been made to Nepal.
tb   Not yet effective.
7T   Approved on August 26, 1980; not yet signed.
7-7  Prior to exchange adjustments, net of cancellations.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
C.   Projects in Execution I/
Credit No. 373 - Birganj Irrigation Project US$6.0 million Credit of
April 18, 1973; Effective Date: July 9, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project has nearly been completed. The main remaining item is
the restoration of eight tubewells. Crop yields achieved in irrigated areas
are promising. Water charges are now being levied in a limited area, and
farmers' acceptance is satisfactory.
Credit No. 397 - Telecommunications Project II US$5.5 million Credit of
June 20, 1973; Effective Date: September 11, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Due to organizational problems, lack of continuity in senior manage-
ment, and delay in obtaining expert assistance, there have been delays in
procurement and the project is about two years behind schedule. Good progress
is now being made with the assistance of experts and consultants provided by
the United Kingdom and a new General Manager has been appointed. The project
is now proceeding satisfactorily and present estimates are for completion by
the end of 1981.
Credit No. 470 - Water Supply and Sewerage Project US$11.8 million Credit of
May 8, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978; Revised Closing Date: July 31, 1981
All major contracts have been let. Project implementation is over
two years behind the original schedule, primarily due to delays in letting the
contracts. A management team provided by the United Kingdom is assisting the
Water Supply and Sewerage Board. Work is now progressing satisfactorily. An
EEC Special Action Credit was approved in July 1979, to cover some of the
Governments share of the local costs of the project. During the negotiations
for the EEC Special Action Credit, the implementation schedule and dated
covenants were revised, and the closing date amended to July 31, 1981. All
major contracts are expected to be completed by December, 1980.
Credit No. 505 - Settlement Project US$6.0 million Credit of August 14, 1974;
Effective Date: February 20, 1975; Closing Date: July 15,
1982
Project implementation, though still about two years behind schedule,
has improved slightly over the last months and 1,550 families have been settled.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the projects in execution and, in particular, to report any problems
which are being encountered and the action being taken. They should
be used in this sense on the understanding that they do not purport
to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Forestry clearing remains a bottleneck and technical assistance is being
provided to speed up the operation. Stress has also been laid on the need
for employment of adequate and experienced staff and better management and
planning of operations. Because of doubts about land use policy, we are
discussing with the Government reduction of project area to be newly settled
from 17,600 ha to 11,100 ha.
Credit No. 600 - Kulekhani Hydroelectric Project US$40.8 million Credit of
January 9, 1976; Effective Date: May 18, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
All civil works contracts have been awarded and construction work
started in December 1977. The revised estimate of project costs, excluding
taxes and duties, is now US$109 million which is some 60% higher than the
estimate of US$68 million at the time of appraisal. The increases in costs
are due to a number of factors, principally design changes as a result of
further geological investigations and the risk factors inherent in a major
project which is remotely located. These are reflected in higher prices and
implementation delays which are adding to costs. In addition, the apprec-
iation of the Japanese yen, in which substantial part of the costs of equipment
and engineering services are being paid, has increased the US dollar cost of
the project. Cofinanciers are providing additional funds to cover the foreign
exchange cost overrun. An IDA supplemental credit of US$14.8 million and an
EEC Special Action Credit of US$3.0 million equivalent were approved by the
Executive Directors on May 10, 1979. Progress is satisfactory.
Credit No. 617 - Rural Development Project US$8.0 million Credit of
April 30, 1976; Effective Date: July 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress continues to be satisfactory, with almost all planned project
actions being implemented ahead of schedule. Disbursements had been lagging
due to delay of project authority in submitting disbursement applications.
Interministerial cooperation is good, and at the district level, sound and
practical development plans have been produced which are fully supported and
understood by project farmers. Adequate financing to carry out project pro-
posals has been made available in the budget by the Government and sites and
plans for most district construction projects have been completed and construc-
tion started. Training of weavers and issuance of improved looms under a
credit scheme is proceeding well. Shortage of middle-level staff in the project
area for construction supervision and agricultural extension may hinder project
implementation. However, arrangements have been made for more efficient deploy-
ment of existing staff and for special training of farmers as part-time agri-
cultural assistants. Under the associated Bank-executed UNDP technical
assistance project, the assistant to the Project Coordinator and the Irrigation
Advisor have completed their assignments.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit No. 654 - Bhairawa - Lumbini Groundwater Project US$9.0 million
Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 16, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Drilling of tubewells is in progress. Forty-one production wells
have been constructed. Progress of civil works is very slow due to the weak-
ness of local contractors. Project implementation is over two years behind
schedule. Completion of the 11 kV transmission lines is far behind schedule.
Consequently, pumps and motors cannot be installed in the completed tubewells.
Credit No. 659 - Technical Assistance Project US$3.0 million Credit of
September 16, 1976; Effective Date: November 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980; Revised Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Studies for a national agricultural extension project (the proposed
project), a silica-lime brick factory, an airborne magnetometer survey, cottage
industries and the grain storage project have been completed, while studies
are in progress for river control for the Sunsari-Morang Irrigation Project,
an agricultural manpower survey and the upgrading of mechanical workshops for
irrigation projects.
Credit No. 704 - Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project US$8.0 million
Credit of May 27, 1977; Effective Date:
February 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Engineering consultants have begun work, and feasibility studies,
master plan updating, and final designs have been completed. A tariff
specialist has been recruited, and the first contract for water meters has
been awarded. Evaluation of the bids for major contracts is underway. An
EEC Special Action Credit was approved in July 1979 to assist in financing
a portion of the Government's share of the local cost of the project.
Credit No. 705 - Nepal Industrial Development Corporation Project US$4.0
million Credit of May 27, 1977; Effective Date:
February 17, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The UNDP-financed policy advisor completed his assignment and the
accounting and information systems advisor took up his post in February 1980.
To date, subprojects for about $1.7 M have been approved by IDA. Progress in
implementation of the credit has deteriorated due to shortages of complementary
local currency resources. Accordingly disbursement have continued to lag.
Credit No. 730 - Second Highway Project US$17.0 million Credit of
October 19, 1977; Effective Date: December 23, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project implementation is nearly two years behind schedule due
to delays in the award of contracts and the appointment of consultants.
Consultants (financed by CIDA) arrived in March to provide maintenance



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
technical assistance. The pre-feasibility study for the Bombasa-Kohalpur
Road was completed in July 1978, and a proposal for the Mechanics' Training
Program is under review by the Government and the Association. Seven of ten
contracts have been awarded for the construction of the Tulsipur Road and
three contracts have been awarded for the earthworks on the Thankot-Naubise
Road. Arrangements for consulting services for supervision of construction
have been finalized.
Credit No. 772 - Technical Education Project US$5.7 million Credit of
April 14, 1978; Effective Date: July 11, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Good progress towards implementation has been made. Contracts have
been signed for all civil works packages, except external works, for which the
bids are being evaluated; however, equipment tendering is behind schedule.
The first batch of fellowship students have completed their programs and a
second batch have started their programs. A team of educational experts,
financed by ODA, have begun work in the field and a program of cooperation
with Paisley College of Technology, Scotland, is progressing satisfactorily.
Credit No. 799 - Third Telecommunications Project US$14.5 million Credit
of August 22, 1978; Effective Date: February 27, 1979
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
ODA is financing the telex equipment and the satellite earth
station. Project consultants have been appointed. Procurement actions have
been initiated.
Credit No. 812 - Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Drainage Development Project
US$30.0 million Credit of July 7, 1978; Effective Date:
November 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
In July 1980, a landslide in the catchment area caused a major flood
in the Kosi river, causing considerable erosion and endangering the Chatra
Main Canal. Emergency flood protection works were carried out. As a result
of this event it was agreed that river training works are not viable. The
sediment control studies are expected to be completed by mid-1981. Rehabili-
tation work on the Chatra Main Canal and procurement of construction equipment
are on-going. Local consultants are completing designs for the first 13,000
ha of the irrigation system and international tenders will be invited to
submit bids for construction. An EEC Special Action Credit of about US$4.0
million equivalent was approved in June 1979 to help finance a portion of the
Government's share of the local cost.
Credit No. 856 - Narayani Zone Irrigation Development - Stage II Project
US$14.0 million Credit of November 27, 1978; Effective
Date: January 8, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation is proceeding steadily, although slower than
anticipated. The major constraint is the weakness of local contractors.
Construction is now on-going in five of the six irrigation blocks. Procure-
ment of construction and O&M equipment is underway.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit No. 939 - Second Rural Development Project - Mahakali Hills
US$11.0 million Credit of August 9, 1979; Effective Date:
January 15, 1980; Closing Date: February 28, 1985
The Project Coordinator has been appointed, but project activities
are approximately one year behind schedule. An earthquake hit the project area
in July 1980. Efforts are being made to accelerate the infrastructure work
under the project. This will contribute to reconstruction efforts.
Credit No. 1008 - Community Forestry Development and Training Project
US$17.0 million of May 22, 1980; Effective Date:
September 19, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The Community Forestry and Afforestation Division has been established.
Eight of the 10 division nurseries, 15 of the 20 range nurseries, and 46 of the
50 Panchayat nurseries of the first year work program have been started. Train-
ing of forest assistants is underway and 31 forest officers have been sent on
foreign study tours. Fourteen associate experts and volunteers, plus the sil-
viculturalist and socio-economist have taken up their posts under the technical
assistance component.
Credit No. 1055 - Mahakali Irrigation Project (Stage 1) US$16.0 Million
Credit of September 29, 1980; Effective Date: March 31,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Credit not yet effective.
Credit No. 1059 - Third Water Supply and Sewerage Project US$27.0 Million
Credit of September 29, 1980; Effective Date: January 30,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Credit not yet effective.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page I
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the project
24 months
(b)  The agency which has prepared the project
Ministry of Food and Agriculture, with the assistance
of the Agricultural Projects Services Center.
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank and date
of the first mission to consider the project
March 1977
July 1979
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission
May 12, 1980
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations
December 5, 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness
April 30, 1981
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Actions
None



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III:   Special Conditions
Condition of Effectiveness
Execution of the UNDP Project Agreement for the employment
of consultants (para 53).
Other Conditions
(a) Establishment of permanent positions for incremental
extension and research staff (para 42);
(b) Loans and allowances would be made available to JTAs
for the purchase and maintenance of bicycles (para 44);
(c) District and Central Technical Committees would be
established to coordinate between research and
extension activities (para 47);
(d) By January 31, 1982 a study would be completed of
AIC's operations and its technical assistance needs
(para 49);
(e) By July 31, 1982, the Government would formulate and
furnish to the Association a national fertilizer
strategy and program (para 49); and
(f) In addition to local training, scholarships would be
provided for about 400 man-months for overseas training
(para 51).



\                               e20                                                             8.to                                                              go                                                               8805 A'  8
'Q   )\                                                                                                                                                                            NEA
/  .J   <.                                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N E P A L
7   'X< t                                          .AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
~~~~ <                      H~~~~~~~-umla                                                                           L
/ Daeclsula                   K>                                                                                                                                                        j |(    * PHASING OF DISTRICTS:
AlT  -   B31han9  ,(   R  d t   Mugu  <   .                                                                                               ONGOING PROJECTS
|ajua                                    -                                /.                      I.                                                7          PROJECT YEAR 1
-Jaitadi4                                                       t /\_7gX   BaJura   (t   f                                                                                                      PROJECT  YEAR 3
" ' N t   .  9   9  T ibrik ot  {  j   .   >R                                                          E S E A R C H   A N D   T R A IN IN G   F A C IL IT IE S
/  Dolpa  \  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 'I  ~       ~          ~          ~          ~         j ~       KHUMALTAR RESEARCH STATION
Dadeldh            Doti                        Jumia                                                                                                                                               REGIONAL RESEARCH STATIONS
*         <         ,J /     t ( Achham   >2_                                     a -/} 8 +  4                                                                                            0         RESEARCH SUB-STATIONS
(     <                 5                       s           9 - T / G 9  Mustang                                                                               R REGIONAL TRAINING CENTERS
'KncU                                                               '-'7k>                   4        G                                                                                              BOUNDARIES
aKanct pert  r;                            -.  Gaine (    Jaearknt                               A      <-  _R II                                                                           __-_/ __     DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
< sl          KallallK                                                                                             Manang-                      V.-           A-                                 ZONAL BOUNDARIES
sucIs ts  K       a    ilali SnIp:_<^.(                            . Manani  PbatD    A         K  .                                               -     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
/)    Surkhet                   Rolpa~       ?            adi     \ 
R A- R;-P  T I                                 G
B~~~~ ~   ~     ~,,,, I r s '   <5                                                    ml-  } / 9Ua |al  . .i/-u  XgS
7                        ~k                                         Gsrkh.aJ        RasUWa      .-".
2B'                 Re~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ke ~~~~~~~~Sayanja                                                                   Nu-wakut     hid        *            ,                                                  '
Dunge ookhhri                                                  Tnau                       AG   MA   T  I \. Dolaha                                     ? -4e-
ER NA                                                L    jj   M  ~~  Pulpa                                             Katmanu                                    \\                  Snlb  o 
SPfg     0 >4.f);orcoss55l    'CHINA                               \--                                                                   C                               khitan  >7'   -t Sbhap                                               Taplelucg
cp   7        >            BHUTANittes. \tnv/tiltymentot theigtiststusobarytemonrvrKapilbastu                         8f "  aapri                 Makwanp               _abhre        a     a                              _aa
O                 '9&-               K                                                           'at       ~ ~       -~gt>                               A    N >                             (OkhaIht(h
INDIA                                                                                                                                                                    S.                          .    op r
MEES0    20    40    60    BC   100  120   140         /%
KILOMIETES                                                                    PT]                                                                                               Dhankuta            la
MLS0        20       40        60        &0       100                                0.                                                              Udaipur 
5                                     0's~~~~~~~~~~~~T, m-p has been prepard by the World Banks staff eolstyfor the co--nenc                                                                                                              Jhapaa 
BIBIA                                            f th-eder of the-rport to whic,h,, 51 atahed. The d---,-etn used-ad the                                      /F 'ISatati                                                                                          c
c 3                                                oun..da,es shnws on tho -np do notsp/y -0 the part ot the Wodd Bank and-t
t.n   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ iaffs_et aspypsdg-on on ode legalv-ar, of-ay trrrsrsry -rayodorseet o
A                      K  --       acceptance o~~f suh b-ud-ne
82'                                                              B4                                                                                                                                       23



