Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONAYl             COPY
Report No. 3104-NEP
NEPAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF THE
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
January 5, 1981
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division E
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1 = Nepalese Rupee 12.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15
ABBREVIATIONS
AADO      -    Assistant Agricultural Development Officer
ADBN      -    Agricultural Development Bank, Nepal
ADO       -    Agricultural Development Officer
AIC       -    Agricultural Input Corporation
CTC       -    Central Technical Committee
DDG       -    Deputy Director General
DG        -    Director General
DOA       -    Department of Agriculture
DTC       -    District Technical Committee
FAMSD     -    Food and Agricultural Marketing Services Department
HMGN      -    His Majesty's Government of Nepal
JT        -    Junior Technician
JTA       -    Junior Technical Assistant
MFA       -    Ministry of Food and Agriculture
PC        -    Project Coordinator
PLAA      -    Panchayat Level Agricultural Assistant
ROO       -    Research Outreach Officer
RRC       -    Regional Research Coordinator
RRS       -    Regional Research Station
RTC       -    Regional Training Center
SMS       -    Subject Matter Specialist
T&V       -    Training and Visit System



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND         .........................1.......................... 
A. Introduction ..............................................                    1
B. The Country  ...............................................                   1
The Panchayat System ....................................                  2
C. The Development Scene .....................................                    2
D. Agriculture in Nepal ......................................                    3
Agricultural Institutions  ...............................                 4
E. The Project Area ..........................................                    9
The Terai Region ........................................                  9
Other IDA Assisted Projects  .............................   10
The Project Districts  ...................................    11
II. THE PROJECT .12
A. General Description .......................................    12
B. Detailed Features  .........................................    12
Agricultural Extension ..................................   12
Applied and Adaptive Research ...........................   18
Monitoring and Evaluation ...............................   21
Strengthening Agricultural Engineering Division
of DOA ................................................   22
Fertilizer Import and Storage ...........................   22
Agricultural Development Bank ...........................   24
Technical Assistance ....................................   24
III. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING                 ..25
A. Cost Estimates .25
B. Proposed Financing .26
C. Procurement .26
D. Disbursements and Audit .26
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .27
Project Implementation .27
National Level Coordination .28
Linkages Between Extension and Research .28
Training .30
V. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS .30
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS .31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
1. Cost Tables
Table 1       Summary of Project Costs
Table 2       Summary of Extension Costs
Table 3       Extension:  Civil Works
Table 4       Extension:  Vehicles and Equipment
Table 5       Extension:  Incremental Staff Salaries
Table 6       Extension:  Incremental Operating Costs
Table 7       Requirement and Availability of Extension Staff
Table 8       Requirement of Extension Staff by Year
Table 9(a)    Regional Training Centers:  Capital Costs
(b)    Regional Training Centers:  Staff, Operating and
Training Costs
Table 10      Summary of Research Costs
Table 11      Research:  Summary of Capital Costs
Table 12      Research:  Location of Civil Works
Table 13(a),
(b) and (c) Research:  Details of Vehicles and Equipment
Table 14      Research:  Incremental Staff Salaries
Table 15      Research:  Incremental Operating Costs
Table 16
(a) to (f)  Research:  Incremental Staff Needs
Table 17      Monitoring and Evaluation
Table 18      Strengthening of Agricultural Engineering Unit
Table 19      Loan for Purchase of Fertilizer
Table 20      Overseas Training and Technical Assistance
Chart         21898
Chart         21899
2. Training
3.  Table 1         Implementation Schedule
Table 2        Estimated IDA Disbursements
4.  Consultants:   Terms of Reference
MAP
IBRD 15167



NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01      Under the proposed project, His Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMGN)
would reorganize its agricultural extension service and upgrade adaptive
research facilities in eight districts of the Terai, to provide farmers, on
a regular and systematic basis, with up to date advice on farming practices
best suited to their specific conditions and capable of having an immediate
impact on production and income. This would be achieved by strictly programmed
visits from regularly trained field staff, supported by professional advice
from extension and research staff of the Department of Agriculture. 1/ This
report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of Messrs.
R.V. Ramakrishna and A.J. Pritchard (IDA) and Shyam Khadka (Consultant) which
visited Nepal in May-June 1980.
B. The Country
1.02      Nepal is landlocked between China and India.  It is divided into
three parallel ecological zones running east-west: the Terai Plain, an
extension of the Gangetic Plain of India; the Hills, actually the foothills of
the Himalayas, ranging from 500 m to 4,000 m in elevation; and the Himalayan
Mountains to the north. These three zones account for 17%, 68% and 15% of
the total area (140,800 sq km), respectively. Rivers and streams, running
north-south, cut the Hills into isolated areas and varying microclimatic
conditions provide a range of environments for plant growth, depending on
elevation, aspect, cloud cover, slope, etc.
1.03      Nepal's population is currently estimated at 13.4 M and is increas-
ing at 2.6% annually with about 65% of the population living in the Mountains
and Hills.  Population pressure and the lack of employment opportunities in
the Hills forces 10% to 50% of male family members to migrate, either season-
ally or permanently, to the Terai, Kathmandu or elsewhere in order to find
employment and supplement incomes. Annual per capita income, at about
US$110-120, is one of the lowest in the world.
1.04      Administratively, Nepal is divided into four Development Regions.
Each of these comprises a section of the country, running north to south,
containing Mountain, Hill and Terai districts. Each Development Region is
1/   The main principles of the proposed extension reform are described in
Agricultural Extension: The Training and Visit System (World Bank, 1977).



- 2 -
divided into Development Zones, varying from three to five in number, which
are further divided into districts.
The Panchayat System
1.05      The panchayat system, which encompasses both political and develop-
mental organizations, has three tiers. The lowest political level is the
village followed next by the district panchayat and the national panchayat
acting as the central legislative body. A village panchayat with a popula-
tion of about 800 families is generally comprised of nine administrative
wards (the smallest socieconomic unit), each containing about two hamlets.
1.06      The working of the panchayat system and responsibility for law and
order rest with the Ministry of Home Panchayat (MOHP).
1.07      District Administration.  The Chief District Officer (CDO), belong-
ing to MOHP, besides being responsible for law and order is also the admin-
istrative head of all functionaries of government line ministries operating
at the district level. These officers operate a District Secretariat and
which also functions as the Secretariat to the District Panchayat. A Pan-
chayat Development Officer, subordinate to CDO, is responsible for implementa-
tion of district development plans.
1.08      Line ministries retain technical supervision of staff at district
level, while delegating responsibility to CDO for day-to-day management of
their activities.  Popular participation in development at this level is
through a number of coordinating committees, chaired by the district panchayat
chairman and comprising CDO, representatives of line ministries, and individ-
uals chosen by district panchayats from among their elected members.
1.09      Proposals for village level development are put forward and dis-
cussed at village meetings and submitted to the district panchyat for approval,
technical clearance, and financial assistance. Each year, village panchayat
plans with estimated costs and the contribution the village panchayats can make
(including funds, labor and materials), are consolidated by the district
panchayat into a draft district plan. The district panchayat then assigns
priorities to projects submitted by village panchayats and government line
officers examine these proposals, assess their technical feasibility, and
relate them to the implementation capacity of the line department and to funds
and other resources available. After further discussions, the final district
plan, approved by the district assembly, is submitted to MOHP for its approval
and release of funds.
C. The Development Scene
1.10      Nepal embarked on social and economic development in the early 1950s.
Considerable progress has been made since then within the constraints imposed
by its landlocked position, low resource base, inaccessibility of many of its
regions, rapidly growing population, and a shortage of trained manpower.
Furthermore, a lack of communication between administrative zones impedes
economic integration of the country and efficient use of comparative regional
advantages.



1.11      Nepal's economic performance during the Fifth Five-Year Plan (1975-80)
has not been encouraging (less than 2.4% GDP growth annually) in spite of real
increases in the levels of investment. This performance is mainly due to
little increases in agricultural production. The critical stage that agricul-
tural development has now reached is highlighted by the fact that Nepal's most
important export, rice, has declined from a high annual level of about 500,000
tons in the mid-1960s to about 100-200,000 tons in the early 1970s, 300,000
tons in 1977/78, and in 1979/80, a year of low rainfall, Nepal became a net
importer of rice. The trade gap has widened steadily, but has so far been
covered by increased earnings from tourism and foreign aid disbursements.
Investment, however, still only amounts to 10% of GDP. The Sixth Five-Year
Plan (1980-85), currently under preparation, calls for a 4% growth in GDP and
increased investment outlays. The plan focuses more sharply on the issues
facing Nepal, while recognizing the limited financial and human resources
available for development. The main plan objectives are to increase produc-
tion in agriculture and cottage and small scale industry, improve opportuni-
ties for productive employment, to meet certain basic human needs, and to
slow down the population growth rate (currently estimated at 2.6% annually).
D. Agriculture in Nepal
1.12      Agriculture continues to dominate the economy, providing a liveli-
hood to over 90% of the population and generating about two-thirds of GDP.
Food crops (mainly paddy, maize, wheat, millet, barley and potatoes) are
grown on some 2.0 M ha or about 90% of the total cropped area. Paddy, cul-
tivated on 1.3 M ha is the dominant crop with maize (445,000 ha) wheat,
millet and barley (348,000, 121,000 and 24,000 ha, respectively) being of
lesser importance. Oilseeds, jute, potato, sugarcane and tobacco are Nepal's
main cash crops. About 10% of total cultivated area is under these crops,
most of which is found in the Terai.
1.13      During the period 1970/71 to 1977/78, the trend in production of
major foodgrains and potatoes has been disappointing, except for wheat.
Production grew at about 1.1% annually largely due to expansion in acreage,
while yields, again with the exception of wheat (increased at 9%), fell at
a rate of about 0.9% per year. Erratic rainfall and higher cost of fertil-
izers partly account for the decline but inadequate agricultural advice and
other supporting services, and inappropriate pricing policies have also
contributed to the decline. Cash crops, however, fared better due to more
favorable international prices.
1.14      Agricultural Strategy.  Declining production of foodgrains and
ever increasing population have caused Government to moderate its earlier
approach to a policy of regional agricultural specialization (foodgrains
in the Terai and horticulture, tea, and livestock in the Hills). The shift
in policy is brought about by the need to increase food production in the
Hills and the generation of domestic and exportable foodgrain surpluses in
the Terai. Since area expansion in the Terai is limited, emphasis will be
on increasing crop yields under rainfed and irrigated conditions.



Agricultural Institutions
1.15      Agricultural development programs and policies are the concern of
four ministries: the Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MFA), the Ministry of
Forests, the Ministry of Water Resources, and the Ministry of Land Reform.
MFA includes the Department of Agriculture (DOA) which is responsible for
promoting production through extension, training and research. MFA has also
overall responsibility for a number of institutions such as the Agricultural
Development Bank of Nepal (ADBN), the Agricultural Inputs Corporation (AIC),
and the Nepal Food Corporation (NFC).
1.16      Agricultural Extension.  The Director General of Agriculture (DG)
is assisted by a Deputy Director General (DDG), Extension and Training. The
extension wing is represented at the region by a Regional Director of Agri-
culture who supervises district level extension programs headed by an Agri-
cultural Development Officer/Assistant Agricultural Development Officer
(ADO/AADO). Each ADO/AADO is assisted by a number of Junior Technicians
(JT) and Junior Technical Assistants (JTA) each receiving two years and one
year training respectively. A recent innovation has been the employment of
Agricultural Assistants (AA) at the village level, who are selected from
among progressive farmers and retired servicemen. AAs receive minimal train-
ing and serve on a part-time basis in areas adjacent to their homes for which
they are paid an allowance of NRs 50 per month. The extension wing of DOA
employs about 151 graduate workers and 1,007 other staff (JT and JTA).
1.17      The DOA has a well established Farm Information and Communication
Unit located at headquarters and which produces pamphlets, posters, charts,
and training aids. The Unit has developed a systematic program of farm radio
broadcasts. An Information Officer is located at each of the four Regional
Directorates.
1.18      Presently, there is no organized system of extension and several
factors contribute to the relatively low level of effectiveness of the exten-
sion service in increasing agricultural productivity. The JT and JTA are
required to perform varied tasks and devote much time and effort to coordi-
nating input supply and farmer credit needs, and to data collection for
statistical and regulatory purposes. They also have much reporting to do.
Targets on various work areas are imposed, some of which are conflicting
and generally related to fertilizer uptake and increasing areas grown under
certain crops and varieties. These targets are often centrally determined
and bear little relation to local conditions and priorities. Usually, these
work programs are more relevant to a small number of farmers, often the more
advanced and larger ones. Supervision and technical backstopping are lacking
and insufficient attention is given to the in-service training of extension
personnel.
1.19      The concentration of research workers and policy makers on a high
cost and sophisticated technology is also an important factor limiting the
effectiveness of extension. The goal of high production and income is supposed
to be achieved by the farmer instantly, through the adoption of an entire tech-
nology package, rather than progressing, step by step, from present production
levels. Thus, given the present level of resource and knowledge constraints,
a majority of farmers have few relevant messages delivered to them.



1.20      Compounding these shortcomings, are factors inherent to Nepal:
poor communications; heavy dependency on a short and erratic monsoon season;
poorly developed irrigation; and areas having special cultivation problems.
In addition, DOA operates with insufficient budgetary support, inadequate
transportation, and housing facilities for staff living in rural areas are
virtually non existent. All these factors place a heavy strain on staff and
act as disincentives to effective work.
121      As part of IDA assisted irrigation projects in the Terai, 1/ the
Training and Visit System of Extension has been introduced in Sunsari, Morang,
Bara, Parsa, Rautahat, Rupandehi districts and a part of Kanchanpur district.
Encouraging results have been obtained in Bara, Parsa, and Rautahat districts,
but in other districts the system is only now being introduced.
1.22      Agricultural Research.  Agricultural Research is the responsibility
of DOA and is administered by a Deputy Director General (DDG). The research
service operates a total of 52 centers located throughout the country: 7 in
Eastern Region, 25 in Central Region, 10 in Western Region and 10 in Far
Western Region. These consist of (a) research stations; (b) research centers;
and (c) research farms, the latter being mainly engaged in seed multiplication.
The research service is charged with the responsibility for providing suitable
agricultural technology for development of all the regions and climatic zones
of Nepal.  Considerable progress has been made under the Integrated Cereals
Project (ICP), assisted by USAID.  The programme has shown the benefits of a
coordinated approach to rice, wheat, and maize research and production.
1.23      However, more applied and adaptive research is needed to increase
crop production in Nepal, but there are major problems preventing the research
programs from operating efficiently. They are, (a) insufficient operating
funds for materials, supplies and equipment in research establishments;
(b) lack of adequate facilities at a number of research stations; and
(c) shortage of research staff working in different agroclimatic zones on
location specific problems. Transportation and mobility are constraints not
only to conducting research but also to field testing of research findings.
1.24      Education and Training.  The Institute of Agriculture and Animal
Science, Rampur has responsibility for training JTA (one year course) and
JT (two year course). It also offers a three year course leading to a Diploma
in Agricultural Science (equivalent to B.Sc. Agriculture). About 180 persons
have so far been awarded the diploma. In addition, a few selected candidates
are sent abroad for post graduate training in a range of agricultural sciences.
1.25      Inservice training for extension staff is organized by the Extension
and Training wing of DOA. Each year, about 400 extension workers receive such
inservice training. These training courses are organized at training centers,
research stations and on farms with the help of local trainers and crop
1/   Birganj (Narayani) Irrigation Project Stages I & II (Credits 373 and
856), the Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project (Credit 654), the
Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Drainage Development Project (Credia 856),
and the Mahakali Stage I Irrigation Project (Credit 1055).



- 6 -
specialists, but the training program is handicapped by the absence of suitable
teaching material, adequate facilities and well trained staff.
1.26      Agricultural Credit.  The single major source of institutional
credit is the Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal (ADBN), established in
1973.  It is expected to provide the overall credit requirements of agricul-
ture and agro-based industries, and ensure effective mobilization of rural
savings. The Sajha (cooperative) program provides short term production
credit with funds made available from ADBN for onlending to its members. More
recently, commercial banks have also become involved in agricultural credit.
1.27      ADBN is authorized to provide loans to individuals, companies, and
institutions engaged in agricultural production. More specifically, its func-
tions are: (a) to provide short, medium and long term credit to cooperatives
and corporate bodies engaged in agriculture development; (b) to provide loans
directly to farmers for the purchase of seed, fertilizer, pesticides, farm
machinery, and irrigation equipment; (c) to invest in small scale industries
engaged in processing farm products and manufacturing inputs required for
agriculture; and (d) to provide banking facilities in places where commercial
banks are not established. The standard terms and conditions of lending by
ADBN are 18 months duration for short term loans with a 14% annual interest
rate, 7 years for medium loans at 11% annual interest rate, and 20 years for
long term loans with an 8% interest rate. Rediscount facilities available to
ADBN through the Rashtra Central Bank provide about 6% spread which is con-
sidered satisfactory to cover operating and administrative charges.
1.28      Lending operations of the ADBN have increased substantially as shown
below:
ADBN LOANS AND ADVANCES
(Rs '000)
1973/74   1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78
I.  TERM-WISE
Short Term                 43,888    142,347    80,906   142,260   160,712
Medium Term                 28,053     30,834    27,310    68,072    89,501
Long Term                    4,434      8,599      6,099    11,735    11,325
Total                   76,375    181,780   114,315   222,067   261,538
II. PURPOSE-WISE
Cereal and Cash
Crop Production          24,498      37,082    42,011    49,920    87,523
Farm Mechanization
and Irrigation           22,469      17,574    22,453    36,658    58,500
Livestock, Poultry,
and Fisheries             3,975       6,201      9,636    20,011    27,870
Agro-Industry,
Marketing and
Warehousing               23,261    116,589    34,166   107,296    77,040
Horticulture                   805       1,103     1,804      4,737      6,842
Tea                          1,367       3,231     4,245      3,445      3,763
Total                 76,375    181,780   114,315   222,067   261,538



1.29      Most farmers are still reluctant to approach ADBN and Sajha for
credit, mainly due to lengthy and complicated procedures for borrowing and
difficulties in establishing collateral for loans. Absence of technical
knowhow in commercial banks is a factor restricting expansion of lending by
these organizations. Loan recovery is poor and has been around 40 to 50%.
1.30      Cooperatives.  The Sajha development program was introduced in early
1976 to revitalize the cooperative movement, mobilize local savings, and to
link economic development with political decentralization at the local level.
The objectives of the Sajhas are to provide credit, agricultural inputs and
marketing facilities, as well as to sell consumer goods (salt, kerosene,
course cloth, diesel oil, rice and sugar). At present, one Sajha serves on an
average, three to four panchayats. Further, at the village panchayat level,
they act as the local agent of the Agricultural Inputs Corporation. There are
1,170 registered societies.
1.31      Agricultural Inputs.  The Agricultural Input Corporation (AIC), is
the sole government agency responsible for supply of inputs and was established
in its present form in 1975/76. Its functions include: (a) importation and
digtribution of chemical fertilizers and maintenance of a buffer stock suffi-
cient for at least one cropping season; (b) collection, processing, storage
and distribution of improved seeds and assistance to DOA in conducting seed
multiplication programs; (c) procurement and distribution of agricultural
chemicals for plant protection and grain storage; and (d) distribution of
locally manufactured agricultural tools and implements as well as importation
and distribution of agricultural machinery.
1.32      AIC multiplies improved seed through contract growers.  In addition,
all seed produced on government farms is distributed through the Corporation.
1.33      Nepal does not manufacture chemical fertilizer and depends entirely
on imports which are either financed by bilateral aid (two-thirds) or by
direct purchase (one-third). International procurement, by nature of Nepal's
isolation and landlocked position, is not easy as all purchases have to pass
through India. Procurement is so arranged that stocks arrive in Nepal before
the advent of the monsoon and again before the winter planting season begins
in November. Fertilizer imports are generally delivered through Calcutta
Port (India) and transported by road and train to the Indian/Nepalese border.
Internal distribution is then either by road or in the hills and mountains
by mules and porters. The transportation costs to some of the more remote
interior areas amount to more than the actual cost of fertilizer.
1.34      Official figures of fertilizer imported during the last three years
are as follows:
1977/78   1978/79   1979/80
Bilateral aid (tons)    37,000    42,000         25,000
HMGN purchases (tons)    9,000        5,000      13,000
46,000    47,000       38,000



-8-
Over the next five years HMGN is expecting a substantial increase in consump-
tion but is uncertain about the availability of fertilizer provided by bilateral
agencies as contributions from these sources declined quite substantially in
1979/80 and levels of future assistance cannot be assured.
1.35      The total national consumption of fertilizers in 1977/78 was about
54,000 tons (including carryover stocks and fresh imports) which is about 6 kg
of nutrients per cropped ha. This is one of the lowest application rates in
the world. Consumption in neighboring India is about 25-30 kg nutrients per
ha.
1.36      As Nepal depends on the international market for the purchase of
fertilizer, inflationary trends in international prices have a marked influence
on domestic prices. However, in keeping with other countries in the region,
HMGN subsidizes the cost of fertilizers to farmers. The amount of this
subsidy is dependent on the prevailing retail price in India as any price
differential would ensure flows of fertilizer either one way or the other
across the border and which would be detrimental to both governments.
1.37      HMGN has, as a matter of policy, adopted a uniform price structure
throughout the country, regardless of transportation costs. The present sale
price of Urea to farmers is about Rs 3,000 (US$250) per ton which corresponds
to the price prevailing in India. This covers roughly two-thirds of the aver-
age total cost of fertilizer c.i.f. retail sales point. At this price, HMGN
provides an average subsidy to farmers of Rs 1,543 (US$129) per ton. The
subsidy to farmers amounts to some 34% of the current retail price of urea and
is somewhat lower than subsidies in Bangladesh (40%) and Pakistan (35-40%)
where transportation costs are much lower. HMGN provides AIC with either the
foreign exchange to purchase the fertilizers or the fertilizer received under
the bilateral assistance program. After the fertilizer is sold, AIC returns
the rupee equivalent of the sales price to government. AIC lost some Rs 46 M
on its fertilizer sales between 1972 and 1976.
1.38      AIC is not usually involved in retailing except in some remote hill
areas. Fertilizer is sold mostly through Sajha or private dealers where
cooperatives do not exist. There are about 1,170 cooperatives and 260 private
dealers in Nepal. AIC has its own countrywide network for distribution of
inputs consisting of three regional offices, 16 branch offices, 18 sub
branches, and 23 sales depots.
1.39      AIC makes available fertilizer to District Cooperative Unions (DCU)
who act as wholesalers both to Sajha and private dealers. Dealers operate
on a commission basis and irrespective of the type of fertilizer, AIC allows
a 6% commission to DCU who retain 1% and pass on 5% to individual Sajha.
Private dealers are allowed 4-1/2% commission and in this case DCU retain
1-1/2%. In addition, a 3-1/2% additional commission is allowed to Sajha as an
incentive to lift fertilizer from district storage well ahead of the planting
season.
1.40      The estimated sales of inputs by AIC in 1978 were:  54,000 tons of
fertilizer, 2,520 tons of improved seeds, pesticides costing Rs 1.9 M, and
agricultural implements valued at Rs 2.6 M.



- 9 -
1.41      Agricultural Marketing.  The main institutions involved in agricul-
tural marketing are: (a) The Nepal Food Corporation (NFC), whose main respon-
sibility is to distribute foodgrains to food deficit hill districts; (b) The
Food and Agricultural Marketing Services Department (FAMSD), whose role is to
collect price data, analyze trade patterns, and establish marketing systems,
particularly in the Hills; and (c) The Rice Export Companies (RECs) which are
quasi' government agencies, purchasing paddy either directly from farmers or
through Sajha cooperatives. RECs public procurement and export functions are
being taken over by NFC.
E. The Project Area
The Terai Region
1.42      The Terai lies below the southern foothills of the Siwalik range and
stretches westwards as part of the Indo-Gangetic Plain. The region extends
800 km in an east-west direction and 220 km in the north south direction. The
elevation of the region varies from 100 meters a.s.l. near the Indian border
to 500 meters a.s.l. near the hills. There are 20 administrative districts in
the Terai region, all having a common border with India.
1.43      Climate.  The average annual temperature is 24 C.  Temperatures are
high between March and October when the mean monthly range is between 21 and
30 C. November to February are cold winter months with mean monthly tempera-
tures between 14 and 23 0C. The average rainfall is 1,600 mm per year. There
is considerable annual variation in the duration of the rainy season, and in
the total amount of rainfall. The average number of rainy days is 81. The
peak season is from June to September when 80% of rainfall occurs.
1.44      Soils.  The Terai plain forms the piedmont in the northern part of
the Indo-Gangetic depression which has been filled by recent alluvial material
derived from the Himalayas. Soils vary from sandy and silty with thick gravel
fans in the northern part.  The soil pattern changes from north to south and
also from east to west depending upon nearness to sources. The texture of
soil varies from coarse sandy to gravelly on foot hill slopes to medium sandy
and silty in the middle of the Terai, and to somewhat clayey near the Nepal-
India border.
1.45      Land Use.  Over 60% of the land area in the Eastern Region is under
cultivation. In the Central Region, the percentage of cultivated area ranges
from 64% (67,740 ha) in Mahottari district to 19% (48,945 ha) in Chitaun
district. In the Western region, the area cultivated ranges from 18% (26,415
ha) in Nawalparasi to 45% (80,391 ha) in Kapilavastu district, but is lowest
in Far-Western Region with 15% (49,287 ha) in Kailali district.
1.46      Irrigation.  According to current estimates, about 250,000 ha
receive some form of irrigation. Out of this, about 150,000 ha are irrigated
from private water sources and the remainder from government schemes which are
concentrated mostly in Eastern and Central Regions.



- 10 -
1.47      Crops and Production.  Paddy is the most important crop of the Terai,
followed by maize, wheat, oilseeds, and pulses. The Terai accounts for about
64% of the area under foodgrains and 62% of total production. It also accounts
for 60% of the area under cash crops and 61% of total production. Overall
foodgrain production has declined over the last few years accompanied by a
steep fall in yields (see table below).
Foodgrains Production in the Terai (all crops)
1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78
Production (M tons)        2.47       2.60       2.38         2.26
Area (M ha)                1.41       1.47       1.48         1.43
Yield (kg/ha)          1,775      1,772      1,612       1,580
1.48      Agricultural Research.  There are six agricultural research stations
in the Terai at Nepalganj (Banke district), Maize Research Station, Rampur
(Chitaun district), Wheat Research Station, Bhairawa (Rupandehi district),
Rice Research Station, Parwanipur (Bara district), Oilseeds Research Station,
Nawalpur (Sarlahi district), Janakpur Research Center, Janakpur (Dhanusha
district), and Tarahara Research Station (Sunsari district). The coordinated
research program on rice, wheat and maize has made good progress, but the
overall research effort is inadequate to satisfy the needs of the Terai.
Increase in agricultural production in the Terai requires new technology,
skills and information, which demand an increase of research in problem areas.
These include:
(a)  Location Specific Research.  Research is needed on varietal
and fertilizer needs, and agronomic practices as related to
particular soils, cropping patterns, and climatic conditions.
Information not only on optimum fertilizer rates, but also
on the use of fertilizer under conditions where both supply
and choice are restricted. Certain areas of the Terai face
specific constraints to production which require attention
from research workers. These include trace element defi-
ciencies (particularly zinc), hail damage, and sterility
in wheat.
(b)  Improved Varieties.  New crops are being introduced into the
rice-based farming system, so that in addition to breeding
varieties with specific traits (rust resistance in wheat, grain
quality and straw production in HYV rice), it is now necessary
to adapt varieties to the evolving cropping systems. More
attention is needed to crop duration and maturity date,
which must be appropriate to the cropping sequence.
(c)  Agronomic Practices for New Crops.  Wheat, maize, and summer
pulse are relatively new crops in the Terai and farmers have
attempted to grow them by applying traditional practices.
Research is now needed to provide the specific agronomic
practices needed to grow these crops efficiently.



- 11 -
(d) Agricultural Machinery. Present sowing methods of wheat
are inadequate and a program is needed for testing improved
bullock drawn seed drills.
(e)  Water Management.  In irrigated areas appropriate water man-
agement techniques need to be evolved.
Other IDA Assisted Projects
1.49      IDA is currently financing four irrigation projects in the Terai-
Birganj (Narayani) Irrigation Project Stages I and II (Credit 373 and 856-NEP,
1973 and 1979), Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project (Credit 654-NEP, 1976),
Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Drainage Development Project (Credit 856-NEP,
1978) and Mahakali Stage I Irrigation Project (Credit 1055-NEP, 1980). In
order to make best possible use of irrigation developed under these projects,
intensive agricultural extension was initially introduced in Bara and Parsa
districts of Narayani Zone. The results were encouraging. In view of this,
it was decided to reorganize extension services in Rupandehi district
(Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project), Rautahat district (Narayani Project),
and Sunsari and Morang districts (Sunsari-Morang Irrigation Project). Thus,
six districts are already involved in the Training and Visit System of exten-
sion covering about 240,000 farm families. In Kanchanpur district (Mahakali
Project), 2,400 farm families would be covered by the system.
1.50      In Bara and Parsa districts, in addition to the provision of an
improved extension service, irrigation facilities have also been developed
over a limited area. Studies carried out by HMGN on a districtwide basis in
these two districts show an average increase in yields of early paddy from
1.3 to 1.9 tons per ha. and main crop paddy from 2.2 to 2.9 tons per ha.
Additionally a summer pulse crop has been introduced in irrigated areas. The
average yield increases in the districts are largely as a result of better
extension activity, under rainfed and irrigated conditions, established under
the same staffing intensities and methodology as envisaged under the proposed
project.
The Project Districts
1.51      Of 20 districts in the Terai, 6 are already covered by the Training
and Visit System of extension and eight more districts would be covered under
the proposed project. The districts are Jhapa (Eastern Region), Sarlahi,
Dhanusha, Mahottari, and Chitaun (Central Region), Nawalparasi and Kapilavastu
(Western Region), and Banke (Far-Western Region). These districts were
selected as they are adequately staffed in terms of JTA and JT and are con-
tiguous with the six districts already provided with improved extension
service.
1.52      The eight districts cover an area of 13,824 km  (40% of the gross
area of the Terai). The total cultivated area is 478,800 ha. The population
is 1.74 million (1971 census) with 362,741 farm families. The average size of
holdings is 1.3 ha.



- 12 -
1.53      Project districts follow the same general agricultural pattern
as elsewhere in the Terai (paras 1.42 to 1.48), but other important crops
grown are jute (Jhapa); tobacco (Dhanusha and Mahohari); maize and oilseeds
Chitaun); and wheat and sugarcane (Nawalparasi and Kapilavastu).
II. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
2.01      The project would reorganize and strengthen the agricultural exten-
sion service and upgrade and develop adaptive research in eight administrative
districts of the Nepal Terai with the objective of achieving early and sus-
tained improvement in agricultural production, particularly of foodgrains.
These improvements in production would largely be brought about by the wide
adoption of low cost, labor intensive agricultural practices, and use of
appropriate levels of fertilizer. The five year project would comprise:
(a) Reorganization and Strengthening of Agricultural Extension
Services. Provision of additional staff, housing, offices,
equipment, transportation and staff training designed to
consolidate the reorganization;
(b) Strengthening and Reorientation of Applied and Adaptive
Research. Development and upgrading of four regional
research stations, and one substation by farm development;
and provision of staff, machinery, equipment, laboratory
facilities, and vehicles;
(c) Project Monitoring and Evaluation. Establishment of
regular monitoring and evaluation procedures;
(d) Technical Assistance. Overseas training of project staff
and provision of consultants; and
(e) 22,100 tons of Fertilizer. Provision of fertilizer to be
used in project districts.
B. Detailed Features
Agricultural Extension
2.02      Under the project agricultural extension would be reorganized and
intensified in 8 of the 20 administrative districts of the Nepal Terai. The
districts would be Jhapa (Eastern Region), Sarlahi, Dhanusha, Mahottari, and
Chitaun (Central Region), Nawalparasi and Kapilavastu (Western Region), and
Banke (Far Western Region). Extension coverage of the eight districts would
be phased over a period of three years with two districts in the first year,
Jhapa and Nawalparasi; and three each in the second and third years: ''ahottari,



- 13 -
Dhanusha, and Banke; and Sarlahi, Kapilvastu, and Chitaun, respectively (see
Map and Implementation Schedule at Annex 3, Table 1).
2.03      The project would provide for:
(a)  Reorganization of extension staff into a single line of
command from the Director General of Agriculture to the
Panchayat Level Agricultural Assistants (PLAA) who would
be employed as full time extension workers at the panchayat
level; one ADO, one AADO and two Subject Matter Specialists
(SMS) who would support operations at the district level;
(b)  Introduction of regular and systematic farm and village
visits to provide farmers with advice on farming practices
best suited to their specific conditions;
(c)  Frequent training of all staff;
(d)  Establishment of Regional Training Centers for pre-
service and inservice training;
(e)  Facilities and equipment to support extension and training
programs;
(f)  Vehicles and travel allowances to ensure greater mobility
of all staff;
(g)  Offices and housing for field staff; and
(h)  Coordination between research and extension services to
enable effective development and transfer of proven and
suitably adapted technology.
2.04      The project would provide farmers, on a regular and systematic basis,
with demonstrations and up to date advice on farming practices best suited to
their specific conditions and capable of having an immediate impact on produc-
tion and income. This would be achieved by programmed visits from regularly
trained field staff, supported by professional advice from within the Depart-
ment of Agriculture. At the village level, the Panchayat Level Agricultural
Assistant (PLAA) would be the extension worker and would have completed about
eight years of schooling and come from a farming background. PLAA would be
residents of the panchayat in which they would work and would be mainly
selected from among existing Agricultural Assistants (AA) who have the
requisite background and qualification. Unlike AA, they would be full time
extension workers and would earn Rs 150 pm compared with Rs 50 pm earned by
AA. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that PLAA of requisite
qualifications and experience would be recruited. This would be ensured by
proper screening of existing Agricultural Assistants and new entrants.
2.05      Administratively all districts are sub-divided into Panchayats.
In the project districts, there are 375 Panchayats and about 363,000 farm
families and the number of farm families per Panchayat ranges between about
530 and 1,330.  Each Panchayat is divided into nine wards.  Initiallv. one



- 14 -
PLAA would be posted to each Panchayat, but in some PanchayaLs where popula-
tion is sparse or in irrigated areas, more than one PLAA would be required.
In the first case because of long distances to be travelled and secondly
because of intensity of coverage. Provision has been made for 125 addi-
tional PLAAs to meet the needs of more intensive coverage. Overall require-
ment of additional staff would be reviewed during project implementation.
An assurance was obtained during negotiations that HIMGN and IDA would review
by December 31, 1982, the adequacy of staff, especially of PLAA, and ensure
that adequate numbers are employed for the implementation of the project.
2.06      The Extension Methodology.  Under the proposed agricultural exten-
sion system, an intensive scheduled program of farm visits would be introduced.
Each ward would be visited by the PLAA, on a fixed day of the week, once
every two weeks. Thus, the PLAA would cover five wards in one week and four
wards in the next week. In some panchayats, where additional PLAAs are pro-
vided, the number of farm families covered by one PLAA would not exceed 700.
During daily visits, PLAA would spend the full day in the scheduled ward,
would visit fields during morning hours, and in the afternoon, either hold
meetings in the village at a pre-determined time or hold discussions with
fatmers or meet farmers in their homes. One of the three remaining working
days each fortnight would be devoted to in-service training, where PLAA would
discuss and learn recommended practices to be given to farmers during the
following fortnight and also bring farmer's problems to the attention of
trainers. Thus, every two weeks the PLAA would spend nine days in visiting
each of his nine wards and one day in training. During the two remaining
days, PLAA would visit field trials, arrange special extension activities,
make up visits missed because of illness or holidays, and do occasional but
limited office work. All PLAAs would maintain a chart showing days for
visiting each ward as well as time and place of group meetings.
2.07       It would not be possible for the PLAA to reach all farmers in the
wards during field visits. Thus, under the guidance of supervisors and in
consultation with the Panchayat and farmers themselves, PLAA would select
contact farmers from each ward. Contact farmers could be from all levels of
village society, and would be selected for their potential influence and
willingness to collaborate with the extension service in following recommen-
dations. Changes in contact farmers would be made, especially between seasons,
if they are shown to be ineffective or if they wish to give up. PLAAs, during
their field visits, would make special efforts to reach at least all contact
farmers' fields, and they, in turn, would share the responsibility of organiz-
ing and attending afternoon meetings or any other village group activity.
PLAA would also invite neighboring farmers while meeting contact farmers in
their fields, and visit other farmers' fields while moving from one contact
farmer to another. In due course of time most farmers in a ward would be
aware of the visit day of PLAA.
2.08      Within their area of operation, PLAA would concentrate on the most
important crops, focussing on practices which bring the best economic results.
Initially concentration would be on improving agricultural practices and would
include better land and seed bed preparation, improved nursery maintenance, use
of good seed, seed treatment, timely operation (such as right time of sowing),
proper spacing, weedings, etc., followed by use of appropriate quantities of
fertilizer. in adopting better practices farmers face little risks, but will



- 15 -
be required to work harder. Since most small farmers have surplus labour but
little cash, this fits their financial status well.
2.09      Organization and Technical Support.  PLAAs would receive technical
support from Junior Technical Assistants (JTAs) and one JTA would guide and
supervise the work of 3-5 PLAAs working in three Panchayats. One Junior
Technician (JT) would guide and supervise the work of three JTAs. To
strengthen technical back up, the project would provide two Subject Matter
Specialists in each district, one each in agronomy and crop protection.
2.10      Each JTA would spend at least nine days in the fortnight visiting
PLA.A in the fie3d,  He would also help the PLAA in carrying out demonstrations
and simple trials. He would attend meetings organized by PLAA and meet each
of his PLAAs on a fixed day of the fortnight. This close ongoing relationship
between PJAA and JTA would relieve the former of the need for formal reporting.
PLAA and JTPA would, however, maintain a daily diary of activities. The JT
would supervise the work of PLAA and JTA and ensure effectiveness of extension
operationg. He would spend at least four days in the week meeting his PLAA
and JTA in the field. During his visits, he would be able to find out whether
visits are being made as planned, inquire from farmers about visit days in
their villages, messages learned, etc. Experience of work in Bara, Parsa, and
Rautahat districts has shown that once farmers become aware of visit schedules,
they themselves become effective monitors by complaining if visits are not
made regularly and in a satisfactory manner.
2.11      At the district level, there would be an Agricultural Development
Officer (ADO) to supervise all extension activities. Provision has also been
made for additional support staff such as an accountant and an additional
clerk to assist ADO. To free ADO from routine activities and to allow fre-
quent field visits so necessary to review extension operations, one Assistant
Agricultural Development Officer would be provided. AADO would take over
responsibility for reporting, attending coordination meetings at district
level, and input supply arrangements.
2.12      At the national level, project activities would be coordinated by
a full time Project Coordinator.
2.13      To ensure a continuous flow of timely, locally proven and adapted
farm recommendations, and adequate back-stopping and training of PLAA, JTA
and JT, it would be necessary to strengthen the technical support staff at
district level. Two Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) would be provided in
each district (one each for Agronomy and Crop Protection). SMS would spend
one-third of their time in training groups of PLAA, JTA and JT, one-third of
their time in field visits providing technical support and guidance to PLAA
and JTA, and one-third of their time in building their own stock of knowledge
through a regular dialogue with research workers, carrying out simple field
trials in farmers' fields, and attending short training courses.
2.14      Staffing and Incentives.  Much of the professional staff required
under the project is presently working in DOA. Details are summarized below
and in Annex 1, Table 8.



- 16 -
Project Staff Requirements
Additional No.
Post       Total No. Required    No Existing              Needed
PLAA            500                     -  /a              500
JTA             125                    125                  -
JT               43                     43                  -
SMS              16                      6                  10
AADO              8                      8                  -
ADO               8                      4                   4
Project
Coordinator      1                                          1
/a  About 20% of existing AA may be suitable for selection as
PLAA.
There is urgent need for training existing staff, and for selection, recruit-
ment and training of additional staff needed, especially of SMS who would have
a key role in training and supporting other field staff. At the time of
appraisal, HMGN indicated that six suitably qualified staff would be made
available for the posts of SMS from among existing persontiel.  Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that all project staff, in particular SMS appointed
from existing staff in DOA, would work exclusively on the project and would
have no other responsibilities. Assurances were also obtained that permanent
positions would be created as needed to employ all incremental staff in
accordance with the agreed schedule at Annex 1, Table 8.
2.15      Extension work in project districts would be carried out under
difficult conditions. Experience in similar projects elsewhere has shown that
the staff work harder than in the past. Provision of housing, motorcycles and
bicycles (paras 2.22 and 2.23) would provide an incentive to staff. In
addition, as has been done in the past by HMGN, some exceptionally capable JTA
would be promoted to JT and, similarly, JT would be promoted to AADO after
special training.
2.16      In each project district, a number of extension sub-centers would be
established and which would be the headquarters of JT. Each sub-center would
cover about nine Panchayats and would be used for fortnightly training of
extension staff. There would be 43 sub-centers in the project districts.
2.17      Training.  The project would strengthen training programs for
extension workers and other administrative staff. The keynote would be the
continuous fortnightly training of PLAA, JTA and JT by SMS who are conver-
sant with the latest research results, active in the identification of local
problems, and who participate in local verification trials. The entire
training effort would be focussed on making these fortnightly sessions as
effective as possible. Training would be practical and concentrate on the
few specific recommendations relevant to farming operations in the coming
fortnight. Ample time would be provided for PLAA and JTA to study the recom-
mendations and practice how they would convince farmers to adopt them. They
would also have an oppJrtunity to raise and discuss problems encountered in
the past two weeks. On alternate weeks PLAA would meet with JTA to review



- 17 -
progress. Other in-service training courses for PLAA, JTA and JT would
include a pre-season workshop/training session for each major season and one
or two special short courses per year on a specific technical topic.
2.18      All PLAA would receive an intensive pre-service training course (35
days). Higher level staff would require a range of training programs as well.
Before pre-season training of PLAA, similar sessions would be held for JTA and
JT. Also before each season there would be a workshop at the Regional Research
Station attended by ADO, SMS, Research Outreach Officer (ROO) and research
workers. During the session, research workers and extension staff would
review the previous season's research results, specify recommendations and
plan the coming season's research and field trial programs (paras 4.05-4.11).
2.19      Improving the knowledge of SMS is crucial to the success of the
project. For this, there would be a training session held once in two months
at the Regional Research Station of each region. The training would be
attended by all SMS in the region, ADO, ROO and other research staff. The
main objective would be to review results achieved, modify recommendations as
necessary to suit prevailing field conditions, review findings and progress of
field trials and develop suggestions for future research topics and field
trials.
2.20      Training facilities would be provided at four Regional Training
Centers (RTC): Jhumka (Eastern Region), Janakpur (Central Region), Bhairawa
(Western Region), and Nepalganj (Far Western Region). The RTC at Jhumka is
being financed by the IDA assisted Naranyani Zone Irrigation Project (Cr. No.
856). The RTC at Janakpur is already functioning as part of the Janakpur
Agricultural Development Project funded by the Japanese Government. The West
German Volunteer Service (WGVS) and USAID are assisting HMGN in the establish-
ment of small training centers at Bhairawa and Nepalganj. The project would
supplement these efforts at Bhairawa and Nepalganj by providing additional
buildings for hostel, dormitory and classrooms; furniture and equipment,
incremental staff, and training costs. As the RTC would be located near the
Regional Research Station, research workers would help in the training of
extension staff. As such, limited, incremental staff is provided--one Training
Officer and support staff for the project's training component. Details are
at Annex 1, Table 9(a) and 9(b).
2.21      Each RTC would have capacity for 60 trainees and provide preservice
training to PLAA and inservice training to all extension staff. Training
programs are outlined in Annex 2.
2.22      Housing, Offices and Training Center Buildings.  Under the reorgan-
ized extension service, extension staff would be required to make regular and
frequent visits to their wards. Consequently, it is necessary for them to
live in or near their areas of work. Provision has been made for modest
housing (Rs 21.77 M) for 125 JTA, 35 JT, 4 AADO, 5 ADO, 16 SMS, and 24 support
staff. As PLAA would be locally recruited, residential accommodation has not
been provided. The unit cost of housing would be Rs 67,500 (JTA, JT, support
staff), Rs 144,000 (AADO and SMS), and Rs 162,000 (ADO). Provision also has
been made for construction of 43 sub-centers, each with a small office for JT
and a training hall. Furthermore, office, classroom, hostel, and housing
facilities have been provided at two Regional Training Centers (Nepalganj and



- 18 -
Bhairawa). Details are at Annex 1, Tables 3 and 9a. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that HMGN would furnish to IDA, by December 31, 1981,
information on location of sites for all civil works to be financed under the
project.
2.23      Transport.  The operation of an extension system depends on a high
degree of personal contact between all levels of the extension hierarchy and
with farmers. Mobility is essential to ensure this and thus funds would be
made available for loans to JTA for purchase of bicycles. The project would
also provide a small monthly allowance (Rs 30) to ensure maintenance of these
bicycles. Assurances were obtained during negotiations from HMGN that bicycle
loan terms and maintenance allowances would be sufficient to ensure their
purchase and use. JT would be provided with motorcycles (43), SMS with
motorcycles (16), and four 4-wheel drive vehicles would be provided to
districts which do not already have a vehicle. Details are given in Annex 1,
Table 4.
2.24      Training Equipment.  The project would provide simple audio visual
e:quipment to support training sessions and enhance field operations. Emphasis
would be on low cost simple aids such as charts and flipcharts which exten-
sion staff can design themselves and modify to fit local conditions. The Farm
Information and Communication Unit of DOA would be provided with an offset
printer, dupl-cator, and silk screen unit, to enable it to support the exten-
sion service with additional material. Details are given in Annex 1, Table 4.
Applied and Adaptive Research
2.25      The project would strengthen applied and adaptive research to pro-
vide practical answers to farmers' problems so that agricultural productivity
may be increased throughout the project area. Efforts would focus on princi-
pal crops grown under the different agroclimatic conditions prevailing in the
project area, and concentrate on developing improved cultivation practices with
early maturing, high yielding varieties acceptable to farmers. Special atten-
tion would be paid to dryland farming techniques, soil and water management,
improved farm implements, and farming systems and cropping patterns designed to
increase farmers' income. Research would be conducted on a multidisciplinary
team approach, with staff devoting full time to research.
2.26       The research effort would be decentralized by designating four of
the existing research stations as Regional Research Stations (RRS), one for
each of the four regions of the project area: Nepalganj (Far Western Region),
Bhairawa (Western Region), Parwanipur (Central Region), and Tarahara (Eastern
Region). Each station would also have a lead responsibility for research on
specific crops. In addition, two substations would be developed (Sarlahi and
Hardinath in Central Region) to ensure coverage of all major agroclimatic
variations found in the eight new project districts and the six ongoing
extension districts.
2.27      Adaptive field trials would be conducted on the regional research
stations, substations, and farmers' fields.
2.28       The project would strengthen coordination between extension and
research at local, regional, and national levels.



- 19 -
2.29      Program Components.  In order to achieve the goals outlined above,
the project would provide:
(a) buildings, at four regional research stations and one
substation, which will include laboratories; offices,
staff quarters, and dormitory;
(b) farm development at all research stations;
(c) modest increases in professional and support staff;
(d)  training fellowships and technical assistance; and
(e) incremental operating costs over the five year project
period.
2.30      Regional and Substations.  Each regional research station would have
prime responsibility for research on a specific commodity. The substation at
Nawalparasi (Sarlahi district) would continue its main responsibility for oil-
seeds. In addition to commodity research, the project would support research
on mixed cropping, dryland farming, and farm implements. Major areas of
research would be:
(a) Cultivation Practices: Techniques which improve crop pro-
ductivity would be emphasized. These would include land
preparation, time of planting in relation to rainfall patterns,
soil amendments (organic and inorganic) especially to relate
fertilizer use to site requirements, spacing, alternative
farming and cropping patterns, and use of pesticides. Im-
proved water management practices and more effective utiliza-
tion of rainfed areas would also be high priority areas for
research. Mixed farming practices which involve fisheries
and livestock would be evaluated to determine means of
increasing farmer incomes.
(b)  Varietal Improvement:  Plant breeding, screening, identifica-
tion and selection of varieties of all major crops useful to
farmers would be continued and strengthened. Varieties would
be sought for factors relevant to seasons, rainfall patterns,
and soil types of different agro-climatic zones, and resistance
to the prevalent pests and diseases.
(c) Pest and Disease Control: Studies on pest and disease control
of the main crops of the Terai would be strengthened. The epide-
miology, prophylactic measures of control, chemical control where
required, and screening for varietal resistance and tolerance
would be undertaken in joint programs involving entomologists,
plant pathologists, and plant breeders.
(d)  Farming Implements:  Testing and modification of farm implements
available in the area and in neighboring districts of India,
and development of improved implements would be an important
activity.



- 20 -
(e)  Cropping and Farming Systems:  The ROO located at each regional
research station would evaluate cultivation practices, alterna-
tive farming and cropping systems developed as a result of the
program outlined, and adjust the new technology according to
the agroclimatic conditions and requirements of farmers.
2.31      Staffing.  At full development, the staff at the four regional
research stations and two substations would comprise 86 professionals of which
10 would be additional staff (no additional staff is proposed for Hardinath
substation in Dhanusha district). Each regional research station would be
headed by a Regional Research Coordinator (RRC) responsible for formulating
research and field trial programs and for ensuring close contact with exten-
sion. There is provision for a ROO in each regional research station for
organizing and carrying out adaptive trials on farmers' fields. He would
work closely with subject matter specialists, extension staff, farmers, and
research workers and form an important link between research and extension.
He would also have an active role in training subject matter specialists.
2.31      The total project requirements of professional staff, number of
existing staff, and additional staff that need to be recruited is summarized
below:
Project Staff Requirements
Post          Total Required          Available       Additional Needed
Class I             4                      3                   1
Class II           13                     12                   1
Class III          69                     61                  8
In addition to the above, four ROO (Class II) would be provided.  Support
staff would also be strengthened. Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that permanent positions would be created as needed to employ all
incremental staff in accordance with an agreed schedule at Annex 1, Table
16(a) to (f).
2.33      Civil Works, Vehicles and Equipment.  Provision has been made for
basic minimum laboratory and farm buildings at all RRS and one substation
(Nawalpur). Adequate facilities exist at Hardinath substation. The RRC and
substations are located in difficult and often inaccessible areas. Research
work is expected to be highly intensive with long hours spent in the field.
Modest housing has been provided, as an incentive to staff, to supplement
existing facilities (Annex 1, Table 12).
2.34      The RRS at Bhairawa and Parwanipur are fairly well equipped.  How-
ever, these present facilities would be supplemented under the project. In
case of the RRS at Nepalganj and Tarahara, provision has been made to equip
them to the level of other two stations. This would enable all RRS to carry
out research work to meet the needs of the Terai districts. Existing facili-
ties at Nawalpur substation are inadequate even though it is classified as a
Commodity Station for oilseeds. Additional facilities are, therefore, pro-
vided under the project (Annex 1, Tables 13a to 13c).



- 21 -
2.35      Research staff, especially the ROO, would be expected to spend
condiderable time in the field. Transportation is thus crucial for estab-
lishing proper linkages with extension and is at present not available in
all stations. The project would, therefore, provide for six diesel, 4-wheel
drive vehicles and six motorcycles for use of staff, and two pick-up vans
for transport of seed and other inputs (Annex 1, Table 13a).
2.36      Incremental Operating Costs.  Operating and maintenance costs
for vehicles are provided under the project. Other incremental operating
costs included are: (a) cost of additional trials at research stations;
(b) research farm development and maintenance; and (c) adaptive trials on
farmers' fields (Annex 1, Table 15).
Monitoring and Evaluation
2.37      A monitoring and evaluation system would be established to generate
data with which to measure output, effects, and impact of project actions,
thus providing management guidance to those responsible for project implementa-
tion and permit in-depth studies enabling an evaluation to be made of longer
term effects brought about by the project. Monitoring would consist of the
continuous gathering of information on project inputs and activities (timely
provision of staff, vehicles, equipment, and buildings) and objectives (train-
ing of extension and research staff, development of appropriate agricultural
recommendations). This information would alert project management and policy
makers to problems of implementation requiring corrective action and provide
part of the data necessary for evaluation. Project evaluation would analyze
project output (the activities of trained extension and research workers),
effects (increased production and consequent increase in income), and general
developmental impact.
2.38      Monitoring and Evaluation would be the responsibility of the
Evaluation and Program Analysis Division of the Ministry of Food and Agricul-
ture. The responsibilities of this unit would be to:
(a)  Carry out a benchmark study establishing data on the
present agricultural conditions of farmers living in
the project districts, the practices they use presently,
current use of inputs and credit, and present yields.
(b)  Obtain, collate, and compile on an annual basis, relevant
data on areas under different crops, yields, and total pro-
duction with the help of existing staff of the Food and
Marketing Services Department (FAMSD) at headquarters and
those posted in each district (one JTA and five to seven
enumerators).
(c)  Carry out short term management oriented studies for deter-
mining (i) the extent to which organizational innovations
and improvements envisaged under the T&V system are being
followed, and (ii) the adequacy and suitability of
recommendations being propagated by the extension service.



- 22 -
2.39      Funds would be provided for carrying out the benchmark study and
the management oriented studies. MOA would commission such studies by organi-
zations existing in Nepal. The project would also provide funds for training
field staff of FAMSD in methods of data collection, crop area surveys, and
crop cutting surveys (Annex 1, Table 17). Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that HMGN would: (a) finalize, by May 31, 1981, a format accept-
able to IDA for the benchmark survey; and (b) undertake monitoring and evalua-
tion in a form acceptable to IDA and forward results to the Association once
a year.
Strengthening Agricultural Engineering Division of DOA
2.40      The Agricultural Engineering Division of the DOA has responsibility
for agricultural machinery research and development, post harvest technology,
and construction of departmental buildings. The construction unit is expected
to design, supervise construction, and maintain departmental buildings at head-
quarters, research stations, and on farms. The Division is headed by the Chief,
Agricultural Engineering who is assisted by two Engineers (graduates), eight
Overseers (diploma), five supervisors, three draftsmen, and four field staff
(located in the regions). The Division hires consulting architects to design
and supervise bigger construction activities.
2.41      The project would assist in a modest strengthening of the Division
by providing one Assistant Engineer at headquarters, an Overseer for each
project district, funds for purchase of equipment, and fees for consulting
architects. Details are in Annex 1, Table 18.
Fertilizer Import and Storage
2.42      Fertilizer Import.  During the Sixth Plan period, HMGN expects to
increase fertilizer consumption substantially. There is, however, no indica-
tion that bilateral assistance, which declined in 1979/80, will increase during
the next few years. Any continued shortage or decline in the amount of fer-
tilizer available would have serious consequences on agricultural production
in the country and on the success of the proposed project.
2.43      The present level (1978/79) of fertilizer consumption in the eight
project districts is about 10,000 tons (gross) annually and which is equiva-
lent to a dressing of 21 kg per cropped ha or 7 kg per ha of nutrients. By
the end of the five year project period, as a result of more intensive exten-
sion activity, consumption is expected to reach some 35 kg per cropped ha.
(12 kg per ha of nutrients), thus increasing the annual gross level of con-
sumption to 17,500 tons. To reach this level, AIC would need to purchase an
additional 18,200 tons of fertilizer over the project period and which would
require considerable amounts of foreign exchange. Currently, HMGN is exper-
iencing difficulty in increasing foreign exchange earnings to finance essen-
tial imports. This has been brought about by declining exports and substantial
increases in the cost of petroleum products and other essential items.
2.44      Estimated annual fertilizer consumption in the project area and
actual incremental requirement each year, over the base year, are as follows:



- 23 -
Incremental over
Year           Total Requirement           Base Year
(tons)                  (tons)
Base year               10,000
First                   10,500                    500
Second                  11,600                  1,600
Third                   13,300                  3,300
Fourth                  15,300                  5,300
Fifth                   17,500                  7,500
18,200
2.45      If Nepal is to increase its agricultural production significantly,
a major effort is required to ensure adequate supplies of fertilizer and
improved institutional arrangements for handling the increased quantities that
will be needed. Thus, AIC requires the strengthening of its management,
organization and financial structure. Consequently, the project would fund
a study (para 2.53) and provide assistance to HMGN to prepare within the
next two years a suitable national fertilizer strategy and program, and make
recommendations on appropriate institutional arrangements to carry out such a
program. It is likely the study would formulate recommendations for improve-
ments in the working of AIC, its procurement pricing and financial policies,
and its storage and distribution system.
2.46       Pending the preparation and execution of the National program, and
to avoid a situation in which the base needs of the project area are met at
the expense of other areas, the project would help meet the immediate fertil-
izer needs in project districts by financing the total cost (both foreign
and local) of all fertilizer required by farmers for the first two project
years. This would amount to 22,100 tons (10,500 in first year and 11,600 in
second year), at a cost of Rs 100.40 M (US$8.37 M). Details are at Annex 1,
Table 19.
2.47      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that HMGN would:
(a) ensure that fertilizer financed out of the proceeds of the credit would
be sold and used exclusively in the project area; (b) review annually with
the Association the credit needs of farmers in the project area; (c) provide
adequate funds to ADBN for the purpose of making loans to satisfy the needs
of farmers in the project area; (d) by not later than January 31, 1982, pre-
pare a study of the working of AIC; and (e) formulate a national fertilizer
strategy and program for procurement, storage, pricing, and distribution and
furnish the report to the Association by July 31, 1982.
2.48      Storage.  Input storage capacity in project districts is about
20,000 tons, of which 11,000 tons are operated by AIC and 9,000 tons by coop-
eratives. The available storage capacity is concentrated in three districts.
Jhapa (9,500 tons), Janakpur (4,900 tons), and Nepalganj (2,500 tons). Within
individual districts, however, the distribution of available storage capacity
is uneven. As such, advance storage of inputs before the monsoon is a press-
ing problem.



- 24 -
2.49      Intensified extension activity in the project would generate addi--
tional demand for inputs and escalate the storage problem. The Janakpur
Agricultural Development Project is constructing 11 new warehouses in Dhanusha,
Mahottari, and Sarlahi districts. To supplement this effort, the project
would provide for the construction of 20 Panchayat level warehouses (each of
50 MT capacity), in Jhapa, Chitaun, Nawalparasi, Kapilavastu and Banke dis-
tricts. These warehouses would be managed by cooperatives. Details are at
Annex 1, Table 3.
Agricultural Development Bank
2.50      ADBN is responsible for meeting the credit requirements of farmers
in the project area and will have a larger future role as the demand for
fertilizer increases. Thus, technical assistance has been included in the
project to enable a review of the working of ADBN and to make recommendations
on its long term financial and managerial needs. Technical assistance in the
event of management and accounting is also expected to be provided under the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) assisted Small Farmers
Development Project and the Asian Development Bank (ADB) assisted Fourth
Agricultural Credit Project.
Technical Assistance
2.51      UNDP has agreed in principle to provide US$0.65 M to meet the
cost of training project staff outside Nepal and short term consultancies
designed to improve project implementation.
2.52      Overseas training would build up capabilities and expertise in HMGN
officers working in the fields of extension, research, and training. The
overseas training effort would be directed to building up multidisciplinary
teams of research staff, upgrading SMS who have to provide leadership in
training, and strengthening extension capability of field staff. The project
would finance, over a five-year period, 128 man-months of overseas training for
research workers and 258 man-months of overseas training for extension staff.
2.53      To further assist HMGN in strengthening research and extension
activities, and to study the working of AIC and ADBN and to formulate recom-
mendations for their improvement, the project would finance 53 man-months
(average cost of Rs 78,000 per man-month) of consultants, in the following
disciplines:
(a)   6 man-months  -  Agricultural Research;
(b)  12 man-months  -  Farm Development;
(c)  15 man-months  -  Extension Management;
(d)   9 man-months  -  Extension Communications
(e)   6 man-months  -  Management advice to AIC; and
(f)  5 man-months   -  Management advice to ADBN.
Most of the consultants would be selected from within the Region.



- 25 -
2.54       Cost estimates for overseas training and consultants are at Annex 1,
Table 20. A condition of credit effectiveness would be that the UNDP Project
Agreement for the employment of the technical experts required would have been
signed.
III. COSr ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
3.01      Total project costs over the five year period (1981-86) are esti-
mated at US$20.85 M equivalent. The foreign exchange component is estimated
at US$13.34 M (about 64% of total project cost). Duties and taxes included
in total costs are estimated at US$70,000 equivalent. Physical contingencies
of 10% are included. Price contingencies have been applied in accordance with
current Bank estimates of expected inflation rates (1981: 9%; 1982; 8%;
1983-85: 7%) and compounded accordingly. Estimated project costs detailed in
Annex 1, Table 1 are summarized below:
Summary of Project Costs by Expenditure
NRs Million                 US$ Million
Category                Local  Foreign  Total    Local   Foreign   Total
Civil Works                  24.91   20.39   45.30        2.07      1.71      3.78
Vehicles                        -      4.28    4.28        -        0.35      0.35
Equipment and Furniture        2.68   10.11   12.79       0.22      0.84      1.06
Farm Development              0.47    2.09    2.56        0.04      0.17      0.21
Technical Assistance            -      7.80    7.80         -       0.65      0.65
Monitoring and Evaluation   2.04         -      2.04      0.17       -        0.17
Incremental Staff Costs       6.58      -       6.58      0.55       -        0.55
Incremental Operating Costs 7.16    3.73   10.89          0.60      0.31      0.91
Fertilizer Import            25.88   74.52  100.40        2.15      6.21      8.36
Total Base Cost              69.72  122.92  192.64        5.80    10.24    16.04
Physical Contingencies        6.31   12.23   18.54        0.53      1.01      1.54
Price Contingencies          14.26   25.16   39.42        1.18      2.09      3.27
TOTAL PROJECT COST        90.29  160.31  250.60        7.51    13.34    20.85
Summary of Project Costs by Components
NRs Million                 US$ Million
Category                Local  Foreign  Total    Local   Foreign   Total
Extension                    21.04   18.04   39.08        1.75      1.50      3.25
Training                       5.52    2.65    8.17       0.46      0.22      0.68
Research                     14.32   19.85   34.17        1.20      1.65      2.85
Monitoring & Evaluation        2.04      -      2.04      0.17       -        0.17
Technical Assistance            -      7.80    7.80        -        0.65      0.65
Engineering                   0.92    0.06    0.98        0.07      0.01      0.08
Fertilizer Import            25.88   74.52  100.40        2.15      6.21      8.36
Total Base Cost              69.72  122.92  192.64        5.80    10.24    16.04
Physical Contingencies        6.31   12.23   18.54        0.53      1.01      1.54
Price Contingencies          14.26   25.16   39.42        1.18      2.09      3.27
TOTAL PROJECT COST        90.29  160.31  250.60        7.51    13.34    20.85



- 26 -
B. Proposed Financing
3.02      Financing to cover total project costs of NRs 250.60 M (US$20.85 M),
including contingencies, would be provided as follows:
Technical       Other Development
Assistance             Costs            Total       Percentage
(US$ M)
IDA           -                  17.50              17.50          84
HMGN          -                   2.70               2.70          13
UNDP         0.65                                    0.65           3
TOTAL        0.65                20.20              20.85         100
The proposed IDA Credit of US$17.5 M would be to HMGN on standard terms and
conditions and would finance about 84% of project costs, including all foreign
exchange costs. An assurance was obtained during negotiations that HMGN would
make adequate budgetary provision each year for the operation of the project.
C. Procurement
3.03      The main items to be financed under the project are:  motor vehicles,
cycles, and motorcycles; civil works; equipment, machinery and furniture;
training; project monitoring; incremental staff and operating costs; and
fertilizer import.
3.04      Civil Works.  Most buildings (US$3.78 M) would be unsuitable for ICB
because they would be small, low cost and scattered throughout the project area.
Accordingly, construction of buildings would be awarded to local contractors
following local competitive bidding procedures and supervised by the Agricul-
tural Engineering Division of DOA and in accordance with procedures already
agreed with IDA.
3.05      Fertilizers (US$6.21), motor vehicles, motorcycles and cycles
(US$0.35 M) and equipment (US$1.06) would be procured through ICB procedures
and orders would be bulked wherever possible. Where orders are valued at
less than US$50,000, items would be purchased in accordance with HMGN's
procurement procedures which are satisfactory to the Association.
3.06      Assurances were obtained during negotiations with HMGN that procure-
ment procedures set out above would be followed.
D. Disbursements and Audit
3.07      Disbursement under the Credit would extend over five years and would
be against:



- 27 -
(a) 92% of expenditures for civil works;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment,
furniture, and vehicles and 100% of ex factory cost for
locally manufactured goods, and 75% of local expenditure for
other goods procured locally;
(c) 36% of total expenditure on staff salaries and allowances
equal to 85% of incremental staff salaries and allowances;
(d) 95% of total incremental operating costs; and
(e) 100% of the total foreign exchange cost of fertilizer
imported under the project.
3.08      Disbursements against items (c) and (d) would be made against
HMGN statements of expenditures, the documentation for which would not be
submitted to IDA for review but would be retained by HMGN. These documents
would be available for inspection by IDA during the course of project review
missions. Disbursements against other items would be fully documented. An
estimated disbursement schedule is presented in Annex 3, Table 2.
3.09      The project would be subject to normal government financial control
and audit procedures which are satisfactory. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that HMGN, within the framework of its own financial system:
(a) record all project expenditures under a separate head of account in
accordance with sound accounting practices; (b) furnish to the Association as
soon as available but not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal
year certified copies of financial statements for the year and the report of
such audit; (c) cause the records and accounts to be audited, in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association.
3.10      Under current practices financial statements are prepared by the
Financial Controller of MFA (who is a first class gazetted officer seconded
by the Accountant General's office). Financial statements are reconciled
quarterly and are the basis of an internal audit carried out by the Accountant
General's office, which then forwards these statements to the Auditor General
for purposes of external audit. An audit report is then prepared by the
Auditor General and after approval by the National Panchayat will be made
available to the Association.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Implementation
4.01      Overall responsibility for implementation of the project would be
with the Director General of Agriculture who would be assisted at head-
quarters by the two Deputy Directors General, one each responsible for Exten-
sion and Research. At the Regional level, the Regional Director of Agricul-
ture would be responsible for supervision of all district extension activities.



- 28 -
4.02      As the Deputy Directors General would not be able to devote all
their time to project activities, a Project Coordinator, working under the
Director General of Agriculture, would be responsible for ensuring iinplemen-
tation and coordination of all project actions. Working through the Regional
Directors, he would provide necessary guidance to field operations and coor-
dinate timely recruitment and training of staff, budgeting, construction,
procurement, disbursement of funds, and submission of periodic progress
reports in a form acceptable to IDA and which were agreed to at the time of
negotiations. He would visit the field frequently and report to the DDGs
Research and Extension at headquarters, and Regional Directors in the field on
actions required to be taken to ensure that project implementation progresses
as scheduled. The Project Coordinator would be assisted by a small administra-
tive unit to help maintain records of project expenditures, prepare progress
reports, etc. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that a suitably
qualified officer would be appointed as Project Coordinator, by not later than
April 30, 1981, with full time responsibility for implementing the project.
4.03      As neither extension nor research can function effectively without
close cooperation, the relationship between the two services, already good,
would be formalized through regular meetings at national and regional levels
(paras 4.07 and 4.09) and through close working relations at district level
(para 4.08).
National Level Coordination
4.04      Coordination at the national level between extension, research and
allied agencies would be ensured through the existing Coordination and Pro-
gress Review Committee chaired by the Secretary, Ministry of Food and Agricul-
ture. The Committee, which meets monthly, consists of the Directors Generals
of Agriculture and Livestock and Animal Husbandry, the Deputy Directors
Generals, and representatives of credit, input, and marketing organizations.
Linkages Between Extension and Research
4.05      As neither research nor extension can function efficiently without
close cooperation, it would be necessary to formalize the responsibilities of
both agencies. The research wing of DOA would assume full responsibility for
the development of suitable new technology, while the extension service would
have responsibility for the transfer of technology to farmers, including
widespread testing of research recommendations on farmers' fields. The research
organization would continue to identify and select improved varieties of
important crops, and also identify economically appropriate practices directed
to substantially increasing crop production and, at the same time, lowering
farmers' risk. Selected varieties and production practices would then be
tested at regional research stations, farms, and on farmers' fields. Research
staff would work closely with extension staff, especially SMS, as much of
the work at regional stations would be in reponse to the needs of local
extension staff and farmers. The extension staff would work with research
workers in carrying out a program of field trials and analyzing and interpret-
ing the results. ROO and research workers would take responsibility for SMS
training at regional level once every two months in order to prepare them for
the fortnightly training of PLAA, JTA, and JT.



- 29 -
4.06      Strengthening of arrangements for close coordination between
research and extension would also be promoted through Central and District
level committees, and regional workshops (paras 4.07-4.09).
4.07      Central Technical Committee (CTC).  This committee would comprise
of the Deputy Directors Generals of Research and Extension and Training,
Project Coordinator, Regional Research Coordinators and senior research
staff. The DDG (Research) would be the secretary. CTC would meet twice a
year and provide a formal mechanism for review of research and field trials,
and for review of future research programs and extension recommendations made
by District Technical Committees and at Regional Workshops.
4.08      District Technical Committee (DTC).  Each Committee would be chaired
by the Agricultural Development Officer of the district and comprise district
field staff, SMS, Research Outreach Officer, research workers and farmers
representatives. The DTC would meet twice a year to review and suggest
recommendations for agricultural practices, including the identification of
research priorities and adaptive trial needs, for discussion at the Regional
Workshops.
4.09      Regional Workshops.  Twice a year, regional workshoDs would be
organized at each Regional Research Station by the Regional Research Coordi-
nator, well in advance of the summer and winter crop seasons. The workshops
would include research workers, Regional Director of Agriculture, and extension
staff, and would discuss the implications of recommendations of DTC on exten-
sion activities, adaptive trails, and research priorities, and finalize these
after considering research data and field experience.
4.10      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that CTC and DTC
would be established by not later than May 31, 1981, and meet at least twice
every year.
4.11      The evolution of extension recommendations would be as under:
District Technical Committee       Reviews adaptive research and trials
ADO/SMS/RDO/Farmers/Research       to propose recommendations and
suggests field trial program.
Regional Workshop                  Assembles proposed recommendations
Research and Extension             from DTC.  Frames recommendations
Staff of Region                    after consideration of research data
and economic constraints.
Central Technical Committee        Reviews proposed recommendations
DC/DGG/RRC/Senior Research         developed by regional workshops.
Staff                              Approves or suggests modifications
before returning to DTC/RRS for
implementation.
District Technical Committee       Considers suggestions of CTC and
ADO/SMS/ROO/Farmers/Research       finalizes recommendations.  Formu-
lates specific fortnightly recom-
mendations. These will form the



- 30 -
basis of fortnightly training
sessions after suitable modifications
by SMS at regional training.
Regional Training                  Zonal Regional Training will modify
SMS/ROO/Research Staff/            recommendations made at preseason
ADO (once in 2 months)             training to suit local conditions,
review findings of field trials and
training techniques, and prepare
lesson plans for fortnightly training.
Fortnightly Training               Discuss and finalize recommendations
PLAA/JTA/JT/SMS                    for next fortnight.
Training
4.12      Continuous practical training of PLAA, JTA and JT is crucial to
project success (Annex 2). The keynote is the training of SMS, who have to
be conversant with the latest research results, be active in the identifi-
cation of local problems, and participate in local verification trials.
Research workers would assist in the training of SMS in which ADO would also
participate.
V. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
5.01      Economic Benefits.  Attributing a precise level of benefits to this
type of project is difficult since it is not possible to determine what pro-
portion of benefits are due to extension alone and what are due to additional
purchased inputs and other factors. In practice, it is the combination
of a number of factors, with extension playing the role of catalyst, that
brings the desired benefits. It is also difficult to estimate acceptance
rates of recommended practices. However, since the project relies primarily
on reorganization and strenghtening of an existing extension and research
organization, the incremental cost is low per hectare and per family. Thus, a
small production increase as a consequence of the project would generate a
high rate of return. The project would be able to generate a 50% rate of
return if, by 1988, yields of foodgrains increase by only 12 kg ha. One
significant feature of the system is that the practices initially stressed by
the extension service would largely focus on improving cultural practices
(timely operations, good land preparation, proper seed rates, and weeding).
As these operations usually involve more work and little cash outlay, they are
particularly well suited to the needs of small farmers.
5.02      Project Risks.  Risks are minimal.  Experience in those areas where
the T&V system of agricultural extension has been introduced shows that
farmers' responsiveness to recommendations has been good wherever visits by
extension workers are made systematically and where PLAA and JTA have gained
confidence in their own professional ability to introduce innovations.
Furthermore, the ability of the extension service to develop and disseminate
recommendations leading to yield increases well above the level needed for a
50% rate of return has been demonstrated adequately. Initially, in most



- 31 -
situations, availability of a suitable technology for different conditions has
not been a constraint as there is a backlog of research findings as yet not
adopted. The best farmers in the project area have already obtained nearly
twice current average yields. Major yield increases are, therefore, possible
even in the process of bringing the production level of average farmers up to
that of the best farmers.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS
6.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained on the following
matters:
(a)  HMGN would ensure that PLAA of requisite qualifications
and experience would be recruited (para 2.04);
(b)  HMGN and IDA would jointly review progress by December 31,
1982, the adequacy of staff, especially PLAA, and ensure
that adequate numbers are employed for implementation of
the project (para 2.05);
(c)  HMGN would ensure that all project staff, especially the
six SMS positions filled from among existing personnel,
would be used exclusively for extension work (para 2.14);
(d)  HMGN would create permanent positions as needed to employ all
incremental staff substantially in accordance with the schedules
shown in Annex 1, Tables 8 and 14, (paras 2.14 and 2.32);
(e)  HMGN would furnish to the association by December 31, 1981,
all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the progress in locating sites for offices,
laboratories, and houses to be financed out of the proceeds
of the project (paras 2.22 and 2.33);
(f)  HMGN would ensure that credit and cycle allowances would be
made available to JTA on such terms and conditions to create
incentives for the purchase and use of bicycles (para 2.23);
(g)  HMGN would finalize, by May 31, 1981, a format acceptable
to IDA for the benchmark survey and undertake monitoring and
evaluation of the project in a form to be agreed on. Further,
HMGN would forward to IDA a yearly summary of results in a
form acceptable to IDA (paras 2.39 and 4.02);
(h)  HMGN would (i) ensure that fertilizer financed out of the
proceeds of the credit would be sold and used exclusively in
the project area; (ii) review annually with the Association
the credit needs of farmers in the project area; (iii) pro-
vide adequate funds to ADBN for the purpose of making loans
to satisfy the needs of farmers in the project area; (iv) by



- 32 -
not later than January 31, 1982, prepare a study of the work-
ing of AIC; and (v) formulate a national fertilizer strategy
and program for procurement, storage, pricing, and distribu-
tion and furnish the report thereof to the Association by
July 31, 1982 (para 2.47);
(i)  HMGN would make adequate budgetary provision each year for
the operation of the project (para 3.02);
(j)  HMGN would prepare and present to IDA, administrative and
financial data regarding progress of project, including
procurement of goods and services, civil works, expenditures,
audit and requests for disbursements in accordance with the
time schedule agreed to at negotiations (para 3.06);
(k)  HMGN would maintain separate accounts of the proiect and
follow the prescribed procedure agreed to at negotiations
(para 3.09);
(1)  HMGN would ensure that a suitably qualified officer is
appointed as Project Coordinator by not later than April 30,
1981, with full time exclusive responsibility for implemen-
tation of the project (para 4.02); and
(m)  HMGN would establish a Central Technical Committee and
District Technical Committees. These Committees would
be established by not later than May 31, 1981, and meet
at least twice every year (para 4.10).
6.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be that the UNDP Project
Agreement, for the employment of technical experts required, would have been
signed (para 2.54).
6.03      With these conditions and assurances, the project would be suitable
for a Credit of US$17.5 M to HMGN on standard IDA terms.



- 33 -                                                   NE  
Teble I
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARChi PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
(R   000 -
Foreign
Year I       Year 2       Year 3         Year 4        Year 5        Total        Eachan e
OXILNSION
Capital Costs
Civil Works                                -      2,396.7      11,983.5       9,586.8             -       23,967.0      10,785.0
Vehicles                               849.0        941.0         905.0             -             _        2,695.0       2,695.0
Equipment                           1,258.0       1,590.0       1,502.0          10.0           5.0        4,365.0       2,607.0
Operating Costs
Incremental Staff                      245.2        617.4       1,019.5       1,109.5       1,154.5        4,146.1
Operating Costs                        281.3        633.8         986.7       1,001.7       1,009.2        3,912.7       1t955.7
Total Extension                   2,633.5      6,178.9      16,396.7       11,708.0       2,168.7       39,085.8      18,042.7
AGRICULTURAL TRAINING
Civil Works                            300.0     1,500.0        1,800.0             -             -        3,600.0       1,620.0
equipment                              180.0        450.0         270.0             -                        900.0         720.0
Operating Costs
Incremental Staff                     109.2        109.2          109.2         109.2         109.2          546.0             -
Training Center                         35.0         70.0          70.0          70.0          70.0          315.0          31.5
Training Costs                         274.8        672.8         736.8         734.8         384.8        2,804.0         280.4
Total Agricultural Training         899.0      2,802.0       2,986.0          914.0         564.0        8,165.0       2,651,9
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
Capital Costs
Civil Works                         1,645.0      8,294.0        7,796.5              -            -       17,735.5       7,980.0
Vehicles                            1,040.0         550.0             -              -            -        1,590o0       1,590.0
oquipment and Machinery                747.0     3,736.0        2,241.0          749.0            -        7,473.0       6,726.0
Farm Development                    1,030.0      1,365.0          113.0           50.0            -        2,558,0       2,092.0
COerating Costs
Incremental Staff                      162.4        317.7         362.0          362.0        362.0        1,566.1             -
Station Expenses                       347.0        610.0         763.0          763.0        763.0        3,246.0       1,463.1
Total Agricultural Research       4,971.4    14,872.7       11,275.5         1,924.0      1,125.0       34,168.6      19,851.1
MONITORING AND EVALUATION               203.0        507.0         611.0          311.0        411.0        2,043.0 
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                 2,167,2      2,092,2       1,885,2         1,021.2        637.2        7,803,0       7,803,0
STRENGTHENING OF AGRI.
ENGINEERING UNIT
Capital Costs
Equipment                               56.0            -             -              -            -           56.0          56.0
Op2eratng Costs
Incremental Staff                       34.7         69.7          69.7           69.7         69.7          313.5             -
Operating Expenses                     130.0        160.0         160.0          110.0         50.0          610.0             -
Total Engineering Unit               220.7       229.7          229.7          179.7        119.7          979.5          56.0
FERTILIZER IMPORT                   47,701.5    52,698.8             -              -            -        100,400.3      74,521.2
TOTAL (without contingencies)   58,796.3    79,381.3         33,384.1       16,057.9      5,025,6      192,645,2    122,925,9
Physical Contingencies               5,775.2      7,817.7       3,175.7         1,441.3        332.4       18,542.3      12,227.7
Price Contingencies                  5,767.1    15,679.6        9,488.3         6,126.8     2,354.8        39,416.6      25,155.7
Sub-Total Contingencies           11,542.3    23,497.3       12,664.0        7,568.1      2,687.2       57>958.9      37,383.4
TOTAL PROJECT COST                  70,338.6   102,878.6       46,048.1       23,626.0       7,712.8      250,604.1    160,309,3



ANNEX 1
Table 2
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION ANn RESEARCH PROJECT
SUMMARY OF EXTENSION COSTS
(Rs. '000)
Year 1      Year 2       Year 3         Year 4       Year 5                     Foreign
Cost        Cost         Cost           Cost         Cost         Total        Exchange
I. CAPITAL COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
Housing                            -    2,176.7       10,883.5       8,706.8                    21,767.0
Sub Center Training Units          -      120.0          600.0         480.0             -       1,200.0
Input Storage                      -      100.0          500.0         400.0             -       1,000.0
Sub total                        -    2,396.7       11,983.5        9,586.8             -      23,967.0      10,785.0
B. VEHICLES                       849.0       941.0         905.0              -            -       2,695.0        2,695.0        l
C. OFFICE EQUIPMENT AND                                                                                                          w
FURNITURE                    699.0    1,150.0         1,086.0          10.0           5.0       2,950.0       1,475.0
D. AUDIO VISUAL AIDS              559.0       440.0         416.0              -            -       1,415.0        1,132.0
Total Capital Costs         2,107.0    4,927.7        14,390.5       9,596.8           5.0      31,027.0      16,087.0
II. OPERATING COSTS
A. Incremental Staff Costs        245.2       617.4       1,019.5       1,109.5       1,154.5       4,146.1
B. Operating expenses and
Extension Material            87.7       232.8          369.7         384.7         392.2       1,467.1          146.7
C. Incremental Travelling
and Other Expenses            33.6        66.0          112.0         112.0         112.0         435.6              -
D. Vehicle Operating Costs        160.0       335.0         505.0          505.0        505.0       2,010.0        1,809.0
Total Operating Costs         526.5    1,251.2         2,006.2       2,111.2      2,163.7        8,058.8        1,955.7
GRAND TOTAL:  EXTENSION   2,633.5    6,178.9          16,396.7      11,708.0      2,168.7       39,085.8      18,042.7



NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
EXTENSION: CIVIL WORKS
(Rs. '000)
Description                      Cost is. fj2         Area  .2      Unit Cost        Year E        Year 2        Year 3       Year 4        Year 5        Total       Total        F.E.          PE
Rs. '000                      -Cost          Cost          Cost _       Cost         Units        Cost
Housing
Agricultural Development Officer (class IE) a)                  1.80              90           162.0            -              81.0        405.0        324.0         -              5          810.0
Assistant Development Officer (Class III)   b)                  1.80              80           144.0                           72.0        360.0        288.0         -              5          720.0
Subject Matter Specialists (Class III)           c)             1.80              80           144.0            -             230.4       1152.0        921.6         -            I6          2304.0
Junior Technician                                d)             1.50             150           225.0            -             787.5       3937.5       3150.0         -             35         7875.0
Junior Technical Assistant                       e)             1.50              45            67.5            _             843.8       6219.0       3375.2         -            125         8438.0
Support Staff                                    f)             1.50              45            67.5            _162.0                     810.0        648.0         -             24         1620.0
Sub-Total                                                                                                       _          2,176.7    10,883.5        8,706.8                                21,767.0
Sub Center Training Units                        g)
Training halls                                                  1.50             100           150.0            -             120.0        600.0        480.0         _              8        1,200 0
LIput Storage                                    h)
Panchayat level warehouse                        i)       Rs..1000/T          5OMT              50.0            -             100.0        500.0        400.0         _             20        1,000.0
TO'AT.                                                                                                                      2,396.7     11,983.5      9,586.8          -                     23,967.0      10,785.0    457.
a) To be located in Mahottari, Sarlalii, Kapilavastu, Banke and Jhapa at district head,uarters
b) To be located in Dhanusha, Sarlahi, Nawalparasi, Banke and .Jhapa at district headquarters.
c) Two in each project district
d) One at each sub Center: office cum residence for JT, small store, training hall for
fortnightly training. Only 35 units are provided as 8 JTA residences are provided by
Janakpur Agriculture Development Project it, Sarlahi, Dhanusha and Mahottari.
e) At panchayat level
f) 3 in each district
g) At 8 locations in Dhaousha, Mahottari, and Sarlahi where JT quarrer are not provided.                                                                           x
h) 50 Kr capacity input storage capacity will be provided to sajhb units in 5 districts
(Jhapa, Chitaun, Nawalparasi, Kapilavastu and Banke).



NE PA L
All1 IEPLIIaAL ExErI.NS1GEN AND IIESEXCCI> PROEAP
EXTENSION;   VCEICLEX   5> A I ,t lINI
VEIITCT.EX                                              Pio         ~       m51<           UIt  CostI          NtIs        Cot          't.          Cs           ;s.         Cost F          .       Cs                        ot          cs
>lsotiqsariers  at              ~~~~~~~~4 Eli-Diese                            200.ii           I  2il     .tOXl                                                                        -                                     200.0O
lilt lies                        "~~~~~~~~~~~ lili)-li-oso  Nit)               2 0l;;         lii          200.0       21 X(i.;;                  I I        200.1         -                                                   Dii .I
tooto  (C-ol,            lAs'90. 0                            41          1 20. 0     it           Igo (I0.     CII         lOlO          -                       --                          .01
SoIb  Peste   Ot                            tiie I     ets            3                     30.0           lOt        3011.11      iii         tilt5 0          . t  l>   ,>0          -                                                  290I
tiAIMP  iT-sl-l     - 
Assiia-tt                                      er                    22                      1. (          29>         _29.0       (57           511         42 4115.0                                                                    12N.01
ItUll  ,IAT                                                                             ~~~       ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~49. 0  94> .lt         1105.0                                                         2 ,.t150i          C0                I2
N Idt I    -<Al                                                        IM                                               1F                                                                                                                  0
FF11:  E 'Ii 101 >121.        >                                                                               )          5>li3s 7I PItliP                                                                                                   00.
I'TAA                                                               50 il                   0. 2         >1'?>         17. 4        17231       NE  t        >051         3 3.1       511'        1 0.0        259         5.0           I00. 0          _ ______
SBul  111AT1                                                                                                           .99. 0                1.1(.1 W>                >,0,e. 0                     0).0                    5.0         2 950.0           4,7t.X              50
AUDIO1 VISUlAL. AIDS
>loadqsaoioos  kt                                                      I                  300.2 O           I         300. 0         -           -            -            --                      --                                     300. 0
T)iser 1Iol       I>                                                   0                    15.0          12            30. 0      Id>           45.0I       31           1,5.0        -           -2-                      -                00
tslt) Po-te       tl43                                                                     20.0          0II.(           f          17)        340l.0       tItti        320l.0        -                       --                          eO, 
It IA                                                               12 5                    0.4            29>           I.       > 511         20.0        .441           S0.0        -                                                    C
PIA0              .1                                                  OO12                                107Y)         1 7.4      >17 3>       N34.'       lIttA         33.0         -           -( -                                          - '.   ____          ____
11>1 kI. PIN>>                                                                                 liOlil                   2 >21.11                 2.4112.0                    111.11                   5.11.       >01o.0 -11 'IC 1112.-11. - -1111-   F"t,  """d
o'l     f ofo-   prit-r    a-d  d,tit   coo           dOt  silk  scee   sole
t;a-ko  ant  rn1tltIoes           ,,i ssloI.>   P-t to>  -d  'latE  bards   silk  -cenoirI .sd  r..eer   rape
ciitt c.   osE   Iso  oE  "ttlt>rc   Mlalir   sorcio1 n. 2  orPA,          tI>
nlFlsose   aed  lt-akbo,dsl            kate    illees  preser-Li-  boxe   with
plassie  bilders    -od  small  librar
it  F             -oinead  oflio-  eqnloip,n-  i,tt  Pro  sI Po-tcdbn->oi aodboitol-
sealf>  i-hltd-sOt  d.Pt i-0 1-a   Foldiseg flassel a-d  bla-k   -ltor                                                                                            asd  plastie    ilee
it  itfio   tt -pNoA.t  Ott  t;toI.    t.t    <41    tr    t.lttt                      lt



NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT'
EXTENSION:  INCREMENTAL STAFF SALARIES
(Re.'000)
INCREMENTAL EXTENSION STAFF                              Annual
Unit Cost    Year 1           Year ,          Year 3          Year 4          Year 5         Total      Total
Rs'000      (No)   Cost   (No)   Cost   (No)   Cost   (No)   Cost   (No)   Cost   Number    Cost
Headquarters:  Project Coordinator                         1'.1      (1)    18.7   (2)    18.7   (1)         18.7   (1)      18.7   (1)      18.7        1          93.5
Class I
District     :  ADO Class II                               13.7      (1)     13.7   (2)    27.4   (4)    54.8   (4)    54.F   (4)    54.F                4         205.5
SMS Class III                              10.2     (3)     30.6   (5)    51.0   (10)  102.0   (10)  102.0   (10)  102.0               10         387.6
Field Level :  PLAA                                         1.8      (R7)  156.6   (240) 432.0   (375) 675.0   (375) 675.0   (375) 675.0               375      2,613.6
Additional PLAA                             1.8               _      (20)   36.0   (50)   90.0   (100) 180.0   (125) 225.0            125         531.0
Sub-Total                                                        219.6           565.1          940.5         1,030.5         1,075.5                3,831.2
INCREMENTAL SUPPORT STAFF
Headquarters:  Agricultural Officer (Class 1II)            10.2      (I)     10.2   (1)    10.2   (1)        10.2   (1)      10.2   (1)      10.2        1          51.0
Accountant                                  5.3      (1)      5.3   (1)       5.3   (1)      5.3   (1)       5.3   (1)       5.3         1         26.5
Typist/Clerk                                3.6      (1)      3.6   (1)       3.6   (1)      3.6   (1)       3.6   (1)       3.6         1         18.0
Driver cum mechanic                         2.9      (1)      2.9   (1)       2.9   (1)      2.9   (1)       2.9   (1)       2.9         1         14.5
District     : Accountants   a/                             5.3                -    (3)    15.9   (6)    31.8   (6)    31.8   (6)            31.8        6         111.3
Clerks  b/                                  3.6      (1)      3.6   (4)    14.4   (7)       25.2   (7)      25.2   (7)      25.2         7         93.6
Sub-Total                                                         25.6            52.3            79.0            79.0            79.0                  314.9
TOTAL INCREMENTAL STAFF                                                     245.2           617.4         1,019.5        1,109.5         1,154.5                4,146.1
a/    For Dhanusha, Mahottari, Sarlahi, Chitaun, Kapilavartu and Banke districts
b/    For Dhanusha, Mahottari, Sarlahi, Jhapa, Chitaun, Kapilavartu and Banke districts



NEi AL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
EXTENSION: INCREMENTAL OFERATING COSTS
(Rs '000)
Annual            Year 1               Year 2                 Year 3              Year 4               Year S                Total
Unit Cost         No.   Cost           No.    Cost           No.    Cost           No.   Cost          No.    Cost             Cost          F.E           %.F.E.
OPERATING EXPENSES AND
EXTENSION MATERIALS
PLAA a)                                     0.3          (X7)    25.1         (260)      75.0      (425)    127.5        (472)   142.5        (500)    150. 1            5^64.1
JTA/JT a)                                   0.4          (39)    15.6         (IC7)     42.8        (16F)     67. ?      (166)      67.2      (16. )     67.2            260.0
Othier Staff b)                             1 0            (4)     4.0         (10)      10.0        (16)      16.0        (I6)     16.0       (15'      16.0             -S,.0
Other Expenses c)                           3.0          (12)    36.0          (32)      96.0        (51)    153.0         (51)    153.0       (51)    153.C             591.0
Headquarters d)                             6.0            (1)    6.0           (1) 6.0               (I)       6.0         (L)         0       11)       6.1)            30.0               _
Slh-total                                                    87.7                  73?."                369.7                314.7                 392.2         1,467.1         146.7           1()
INCREMENTAL TRAVELLING
AND OTHER EXPENSES
JTA: Cycle Allowance e)                     0.4          (29)    11.6          (P0)      32.0       (1?5)     50.0       (125)      5C.0      (123)      30.0            193.6
Agric. Dev. Officers f)                     4.0            (1)     4.0          (2)       F.1         (4)      16.0         (r,)    16.0        (4)      16.0             60.0
Sub. Matter Specialists g)                  4.0            (3)   17.0           (5)      20.0        (10)     40.0         (1lo)    40.0       (10)      40.0            152.1'                                                  m
Headquarters h)                             6.0            (1)     6.0          (1)       6.1         (1)       6.0         31)      6.0        (1)       6.0             3C.0
Sub-total                                                    33.6                   66.0                112.0                 112.0                117.1            435.6           -
VE,lICLE OPERATING COSTS
Heqtrs. (4 WD-diesel) i)                   40.0            (1)   40.0           (1)      40.0         (1)     40.0          (1)     40.11       (1)      4(3.0           200.0
District (4 WD-diesel  j)                  30.0            (1)    30.0          (23      60.0         (3)     90.0          (3)     90.0        (3)      90.0            360.1)
Motorcycles k)                           10.0           (4)   40.0           (1()    11(3.0       (16)    160.0         (16)    160.0        (If)    160.(3            620.0
Sub-center Motorcycles (.JT) 1)             5.0          (10)    50.0          (27)    135.0         (43)    215.0         (43)    215.0       (43)    215.0             830.0
Sub-total                                                   160.0                  335.0                S05.0                 505.0                S05.0          2,010.0       1 ,09 .1         90
TOTAL                                                       281.3                  633.f                966. 7              1,001.7                               3,912.7        1,955.7         50
a) Includes printing of diaries, 1ostc-  paper and paint for preparing  sir;ple visual aids, and *,f ple  instru.ctional
materIals .
6) Calculatedl at As 1,000 for subh ject matter specialists to prepare training materials and other aids.
c) CalcsdlAted at Rs 3,000 per each district and sub-center for 3d  p,ri ng fortnightly  lI ssons and other materials.                                                     r
dl) Calculated at Rs 6,000 for headquarter set-up.
e) CaIculated  at Rs 30 per month per JTA
f) Calculated at Rs 4,000 per year as travelling allowances and daily allowance per ADO.
g) Calculated  at Rs 4,000 per year as travelling allowances and daily allowance for ^,MS.
Ih) Calculated at Rs 6,000 per year for project coordinator and his staff.
i) 15,000 km/yr.
j) 12,000 km/yr.
k) About 30 km/day at Rs 1.50/kr,.
1) About 15 km/day at Rs 1.50/km.



NIl AL
AGRICULTURAL LETEN1O0N  ,ND RISLiL..CHIiSLCT
RgqUIREMENT  ,ND AVAILu,aILIT'Y (F 2{TLNSI6N ST,FF
FLAA       New FLA.Ma    JTA c/        JTA p-ste       JT d!          JT posts       AUDc _ /    .AuD  post-      SLlo r!      SlS p.osts ./ New SiS posts  ADO  i/   ADC posts           New ADO pOFtS i
DlTRICTS           asnchapata     1eqsrrd       Required      Reostred A.vaIlably          Renirr--      AVailable        viij-b                     Ressi-!    Avilable           Revuired h/ Re_qir-d         Available      Required
First Year
ihappa                      36              36          36              12              15          14               9             1             1              2                      1                    1              1
Nawalparasi                 DL              51          51              17             21            6              U R                        -1               2              _                2          __1
SoSh-Iota1               87               87         87               29             36           10             17             2             2              4              1                 3           2             1                  1
Second Year
Mahl cttari                 55              5S         55               18             13            6               5             1             1              2             2                             1                                1
Dha--shs                    69              69         69               23             26             5              6             1             1              2             2                             1              1
R..ke                      29               29        29                1N             I 1           3              5             1              1              2            _                  2           1             I
Sob-ilota1              153             153        153                5i             NO           17             16             3             3               6             4                 2           3             2                  1
Third Year
S-rlahi                     (1               61       61                20             I4            7              4              1             I              ?                               2           1                                 1
gapilovastc                 42               42       42                14             12             5              6             1             1              2                               2           1                                 1
ChirasL-                    32               32        32               II             25            4               5             1             1              2              1                 1L        _L_             1
S6b-Total               135               135      135                45             51           16             15             3              3              6             1                 5           3             1                  2
GRAiD TOTAL                 37i              375      375 b/            125            137           43             48              8             8             16              6                10           8             4                  4
a) one PIAA per panchayat.  Adjost-ests will be n-ade (after first vaear  based a- e-pe-ierics gained d-lieg execution of protect, to increase the somber of PLAA rn two In
some pan-hayats.  Additional provision  for 125 pests of PLAA has been made  -ider increie. tal staff costs.
b) Thb existing agri-til ura' assistants will be seleeted for e-pl--venit as PLAA only after proper -rresolog.
c) One JTA  ti aside and s.ep-ej-  three  LAAn'.
.' See JT for 9 piilih.a.ats to guide and super-ise wobk of 9 PLA/JTA.                                                                                                                                  i-iT-
e) One Assistan,t Agric-lt-De Developme-t Officer tuADO) per district                                                                                                                                    nx
f) TSv smahOert matter sp-cialist (SIMS) pee dlistrit.
g) One post to be deployed from  'ankal farm  Jhapa, 4 posts to be deplanefd fe  Dh-nhb  ed Mabota   fr    ts-kp-                                 pose  to     depladrom  Agricnltn-e Station
Raspor to work in Chitaun districL
h) Addit-ooal pnsts.
i) ne Agei-llt-ral Development Officer per district.
j) Additional posts.



- 40 -
NEPAL                            ANNEX 1
Table 8
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
REQUIREMENT OF EXTENSION STAFF BY YEAR
Year 1      Year 2      Year 3   Year 4    Year 5
PLAA
NEW
- at one PLAA per       yearly             87          153        135
panchayat
- additional PLAA       yearly                          20         30        50         25
cumulative        87          260        425       475        500
JTA
Existing                 yearly             29           51         45
cumulative                     80         125      125        125
JT
Existing                 yearly             10           17         16        --
cumulative                     27          43       43         43
AADO
Existing                 yearly              2           3            3       -          -
cumulative                     5            8        8          8
SMS
Existing                 yearly             1            4            1       -          -
cumulative                     5            6        6          6
New                      yearly             3            2            5
cumulative                     5           10       10         10
ADO
Existing                 yearly             1            2            1       -          -
cumulative                     3            4         4         4
New                      yearly             1            1            2
cumulative                     2            4         4         4
PROJECT COORDINATOR
(HQ)
New                      yearly             1            -            -        -
cumulative        -            1            1         1          1
TRAINING OFFICERS
New                      yearly             2            2            2         2          2



NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
REGIONAL TRAINING CENTERS
CIVIL WORKS, EQUIPNENT AND FURNITURE COSTS
(Rs '000)
Area   Unit Cost    Year 1        Year 2      Year 3    Year 4       Year 5    Total
(M )   (Rs '000)      Cost        Cost        Cost       Cost         Cost      Cost        F.F      ' F.E
CAPITAL COSTS
A. Civil Works
(i)    Training and Hostel a)
- Nepalganj                            400       800.0        80.0        320.0       400.0          -           -     800.0
- Bhairawa                             500    1,000.0        100.0        400.0       500.0          -           -   1,000.0
(ii)   Fencing b/                                       200.0         20.0         80.0       100.0         -           -      200.0
(iii)  Electricity and Water Supply c/                  600.0            -        200.0       400.0         -           -      600.0                                      4
(iv)   Housing d/
- Nepalganj                            315       500.0        50.0        250.0       200.0          -           -      500.0
- Bhairawa                             315       500.0        50.0        250.0       200.0          -           -      500.0
Sub total                                                    300.0      1,500.0    1,800.0           -           -   3,600.0   1,620.0         45
B. Equipment and Furniture e/
- Nepalganj                                             450.0         90.0        225.0       135.0         -            -     450.0
- Bhairawa                                              450.0         90.0        225.0       135.0         -           -      450.0
Sub total                                                    180.0        450.0       270.0                      -      900.0      720.0       80
Total:  Capital Costs                                                480.0      1,950.0    2,070.0          -            -   4,500.0   2,340.0         52
a/  Includes cost of additional hostel and classroom facilities; office and library facilities.
b/  Fencing at Rs. 100,000 per Center.                                                                                   x
c/  Electricity and water supply at Rs. 300,000 per Center.
d/  Housing for one Training Officer (90.m ) and 5 support staff (225 m ) at each Center.
e/  Includes costs of furniture for classrooms, hostel and offices; office and training
equipment and visual aids; one generator for each center.



NEPAI
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
REGIONAL TRAINING CENTERS AND TRAINING COSTS
INCREMENTAL STAFF, OPERATING AND TRAINING COSTS
(Rs '000)
Unit          Year I             Year 2             Year 3              Year 4             Year 5           Total        Total          F.E            % F.E
Cost     (No.)    Cost        (No.   Cost   (No.)    Cost          (No.)      Cost    (No.    Cost    Numbers            Cost
Incremental Operating Costs
A. Incremental Staff Costs
Training Officer (Class 11)                   13.7       (2)       27.4       (2)    27.4      (2)      27.4       (2)       27.4       (2)     27.4         2          137.0
Junior Technician                               6.7      (4)       26.R       (4)    26.S      (4)      26.E       (4)       26.8      (4)      26.8)        4          134.0
Accountant                                      5.3      (2)       10.6       (2)    10.6      (2)      10.6       (2)       10.6       (2)     10.6          2           53.0
Typist-Clerk                                    3.6      (2)        7.2       (2)     7.2      (2)        7.2      (2)        7.2       (2)      7.2          2           36.0
Artist                                          7.0      (2)       14.0       (2)    14.0      (2)      14.0       (2)       14.0       (2)     14.0          7           70.0
Hlelpers                                        2.9      (5)       23.2       (8)    23.2      (8)      23.2       (8)       23.2       (F)     23.2          8          116.0
Sub total                                                   109.              109.2              109.2                109.2              109.2                    546.0
B.  Operating Costs
Office operating costs                        35.0       (2)       35.0       (2)    70.0      (2)      70.0       (2)       70.0      (2)      70.0         7          315.0          31.5               10
C. Training Costs
Preservice PLAA Training                        0.6     (150)      90.0   (300)  180.0  (100)           60.0   (100)         60.0                   -      650          390.0
Expenses for Regional Training                  1.2      (8)        9.6      (20)    24.1)   (32)       38.4      (32)       38.4     (32)      38.4                    148.8
Pre-season Training
- PLAA/JJA/JT                                   0.1     (126)      12.6    (367)    36.7  (593)         59.3    (643)        64.3    (668)      66.8                    239.7
- SM5/AADO/ADO                                  0.1      (8)        0.8      (20)     2.0   (32)         3.2      (32)        3.2     (32)       3.2                      12.4
Special Short Courses
- PLAA/JJA/JT                                   0.3     (126)      37.8    (367)  110.1  (593)         177.9    (643)       192.9    (668)   200.4                       719.1
- SMS (in country)                              1.0      (4)        4.0      (10)    10.0   (16)        16.0      (16)       16.0     (16)      16.0                      62.0
Regional Workshops                              0.2     (300)      60.0    (300)    60.0  (300)         60.0    (300)        60.0   (300)       60.0                    300.0
Project Orientation                             0.1     (150)      15.0    (250)    25.0  (220)         22.0                    -                   -                     62.0
Stuidy Tour to Extension
Projects in India                               3.0      (15)      45.0      (75)  225.0  (100)        300.0   (100)        300.0                   -                   P70.0                                        - .
Sub total                                                   274.8             672.8              736.8                734.8              384.8                  2  04.0         280.4               10
TOTAL                                                       419.0             852.0              916.0                914.0              564.0                  3 665.0         311.9                7         ca x



NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
SUMMARY OF RESEARCH COSTS
(Rs '000)
Foreign
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3    Year 4        Year 5       Total        Exchange
I. CAPITAL COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS
Laboratories                180.0     900.0       720.0           -            -      1,800.0
Farm Buildings              172.0   1,162.0    1,196.0            -            -      2,530.0
Housing                  1,293.0   6,232.0    5,880.5             -            -    13,405.5
Sub total               1,645.0   8,294.0    7,796.5             -            -    17,735.0       7,980.0
B. VEHICLES                  1,040.0      550.0           -           -            -     1,590.0       1,590.0
C. EQUIPMENT & MACHINERY
Farm Machinery              550.0   2,750.0    1,650.0        550.0             -     5,500.0      4,950.0
Laboratory and Office
Equipment                 197.0      986.0       591.0       199.0            -      1,973.0      1,776.0
Sub total                 747.0   3,736.0    2,241.0         749.0            -      7,473.0      6,726.0
D. FARM DEVELOPMENT          1,030.0   1,365.0        113.0       50.0             -     2,558.0       2,092.0
Total Capital Costs      5,462.0  13,945.0   10,150.5         799.0             -    29,356.5    18,388.0
[I. OPERATING COSTS
Incremental Staff           162.4     317.7       362.0       362.0        362.0      1,566.1             -
Station Expenses            347.0     610.0       763.0       763.0        763.0      3,246.0      1,463.1
Sub total                 509.4      927.7    1,125.0    1,125.0        1,125.0      4,812.1      1,463.1
TOTAL RESEARCH COSTS          4,971.4  14,872.7   11,275.5    1,924.0        1,125.0    34,168.6    19,851.1
C)B



NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCl PROJECT
RESEARCH: CAPITAi. COSTS
(R.. '000)
A2  .       Unit        Year I          Yer 2             Year 3           Year 4            Year 5         Total      Total
.  Civilorks: aboat es Cost/sq,j M2 1M  Cost    ( No.) Cost  i.   Cost              No. Co         _oot       No.)    Cost     Units        Cost       ,.E.      _E
1. Civil Work.: l.abortories
Office cun  laboratory                  2.0            700.0       1400.0          140.0            7(0.0              560.0          _                -              1        1400.0
Field laboratory                        2.0            100.0        200.0           40.0             200.0             1 k0          _                -              2         400.0
2. Civil Works: Farm B,tildings
Rest housc                              1.8            120.0        216.0             -             210.0              438.0          _                -              3          648.0
P-mp hoose                             0.7              15.0         10.5             _              42.0               -                              _              4           42.0
Tractor shed                            0.4             60.0         24.0             -               50.0              70.0          _                -              5          120.0
Tbresshig floor                         0.2            600.0        120.0           84.0            420.0              336.0                           _7                        840.0
Store                               RS. 1000/MT       100 MT        100.0           20.0            100.0               80.0          _                _              2         200.0
Dorsoitory                              2.0            340.0        600.0           08.0            340.0              272.0          _                -              1          680.0
3. Civil Works: Housing
Class I staff                           1.8            120.0        216.0          201'.0            500.0             164.0          _                 -             4          864.0
Class II staff                          1.8             90.0        162.0          292.0           1458.0             1166.0          _                 -            18        2916.0
Class ITT staff                         1.8             80.0        144.0          390.0            1950.0            1548.0          _                 -            27        3888.0
Non-gazetted staff                      1.5             45.0         67.5          257.0           1280.0             1028.0          _                              38         2565.0
Other staff                             1.5             35.0          52.5         100.0             500.0             397.5          _                              19          997.5
FPornitore (15%)                                                                    54.0             544.0            1577.0                   -                                2175.0
Sob-Total                                                                        1,645.0          8,21'4.0           7,796.5          _                 -                    17,735.5    7,980.0    45%
4. Fate Oevelop=ent
Land shaping & roads                                                  10/ha.         -               70.0              55.0                            - _25 ha                 125.0        25.0    20'!
Irrigation & drainage                                                 1.4/ha.         -               70.0              58.0        50.0                -           1?7 ha       178.()       38.0    207.
T1obeweIls                                                          300.0    (3) 900.0         (3)  900.0                                               -              6 01     1800.0    1620.C    90'7.
P-opsets                                                              65.0    (2) 130.0       (5)  325.0                              -    _            -             7       _455.0        409.0    90%
S,b,-Total                                                                       1,030.0          1,365.0              113.0        50.                 -                     2 ,558.0   2,092.0
5. Vehicles
4-bheel drive                                                       200.0    (4) 800.0         (2)  400.0                 -           _                 -              6        1200.0
Pick op  -an                                                        120.0    (1) 120.0         (1)  120.0                -                              -             2          240.0
Motorcycles                                                           30.0    (4) 120.0        (1)   30.0                 -           _                                5         1: -. 0 
Sub-Total                                                                          0/00.0            550.0                -                                                    1,590.0    1,590.0    100%
6.  Farm  Machinery 1)                                                                     531.0          2,655.0            1,593.0      551.(1                .                     5,50()10   4,950.0    90%'
7.  Laboratory & Office cqoip:-:L:t 1)                                                     197.()           986.1)             591.0      199.()                _                      1,73.0    1,776.0    90%.
GRAND TOTAI.                                                                             4,443.0         13,850.0(          10,093.5        I.I)                -                     U. 351. .:  10,3P8.n



- 45 -
NEPAL                                         ANNEX 1
Table 12
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
RESEARCH STATIONS:        CIVIL WORKS
Research Stations
Total
Description                 Tarahara       Parwanipur        Bhairawa       Nepalganj        Nawalpur       Units
Laboratories
Office cum laboratory 1)                                                             1              -             1
Field laboratory        2)          1                                                               1             2
Farm Buildings
Rest House                          1               1                                1              -             3
Pump House                          1               1               1                1                            4
Tractor Shed                        1                               1                2              1             5
Threshing floor                     2               1               1                2              1             7
Store                                                                                1              1             2
Dormitory               3)         -                                -               -               _             1
Housing
Class I staff                       1               1               1                1              -             4
Class II staff                      4               6               4                4                           18
Class III staff                     6               6               5                8              2            27
Non gazetted staff                  4               4               9               19              2            38
Other staff                         4               1               4               10             _             19
1) Includes laboratories for agronomy, plant breeding and horticulture;
office for technical and other staff.
2) Consisting of laboratories for agronomy and plant pathology; two offices
and a store.
3) Dormitory and classroom at Maize Research Station, Rampur (Chitaun
district) for training field staff.



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
NEPAL                            Table 13 (a)
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
RESEARCH STATIONS:  VE1I;CLES,  MACHINERY, EQUIPMENT AND FARM DEVELOPMENT NEEDS
(Rs. '000)
Research Stations
Unit                                                                             Total        Total
Description                Cost         Tarahara    Parwanipur    Bhairawa    Nepalganj    Nawalpur    Units             Cost
(Rs. '000)
A. Vehicles
4 Wheel Drive  1)             200.0           1.            1              1             2            1           6         1,200.0
Pick up truck, 2)             120.0           1             -              1            -             -           2           240.0
Motor Cycle    3)              30.0           2              -             1             2            -           5           150.0
Sub Total                                                                                                           1,590.0
B.  Farm Machinery 4)
Tractors                      200.0           2             1              -             2            1           6        1,200.0
Chisel plough                  24.0           1             -              _            -             1          2            48.0
Rotary hoe                     72.0           1             -              -             1            1           3          216.0
Disc harrow                    2 5.0          1             1              -             2            2           6          150.0
Cultivators                    12.0           1             -              -                          1           2           24.0
Ridgers                        12.0           1             -              -             1            1          3            36.0
Cage Wheds                      3.0           1             -              -            -            -            1             3.0
Disc plough                   30.0            1             _                           1            _           2            60.0
Tillers 10 h.p.                32.0           2             2              -            2            _           6           192.0
Fertilizer spreader            24.0           1             -              _             1           -           2            48.0
Corn planters                  24.0           -             -                            1          -           1            24_0
Seed drills                    36.0           1             -             1             1            -           3           108.0
Hand plot seeder                0.6           1             -                            1          1           3             2.C
Hand sprayer/duster             0.7           6             2             2             6            2          18            13.0
Small seed cleaner              5.0           1             -                            1          -           2            10.0
Corn sheller                   12.0           1             _             1             1            -           3            36.0
Plot thresher                  60.0           4             3             3             4            1          15           900.0
All crop thresher              46.0           1             1             1             1            -           4           184.0
Mini  thresher                 18.0           -             1              _            1                        2            36.0
Aspirator                      20.0           1             1             1             1            _           4            80.0
Tractor trailer                24.0           2             1             1             2            1           7           168.0
Bullock pairs                   8.0           2             1             1             2            1           7            56.0
Bullock drawn implements       75.0           1             1             1             1            1           5           375.0
Worshop equipment             230.0           1             1             1              1            -          4           920.0
1,Rg9.0
Add  spares (12.5% Of cost)                                                                                                  611.0
Sub Total                                                                                                          5,500.



-47 -
ANNEX 1
Table 13 (b)
Unit                                                                                    Total        Total
Cost      Tarahara       Parwanipur       Bhairawa       Nepalganj       Nawalpur      Ujnits        Cost
C. Laboratory and Office Equipment b)
Microscope (Research)                     31.7         1               _                               1              - _           2           3.4
Stereo microscope                         13.0         1                                               1              1             3          39.0
Microscope (Illuminator)                   1.6         1                                                              1             3            5.0
Top loading balance (10 kg.)              36.0         1               _                               2              -             3         108.0
Analytical Balance                        36.3         1                                               1              -             2          73.0
Platform balance                           8.0         2               _               _               2              1             5          40,0
Field Scales                               1.5         2               -               -               2              1             5           7.6
Refrigerator                               7.0         1                                               I _  1         1             3          21.0
Oven                                       3.0         1               _                               1              1            3            9.0
Incubator                                 20.0         1                                                1            1            3           60.0
Autoclave                                  1,0         1                                                1                          2           2.0
Hot plates                                 1.0         4               _                               4              1             9           9.0
Centrifuge with spares                    19.0         1                                               I _   1        -            2           38.0
Distilled water apparatus                 23.0         1                                               1                           2           46.0
Micro-Kjeldahal D)igestion                 6.0         1               _               _               I              _             2          12.0
Micro-Kjeldahal distillation              10.0         1               _                               -                            2          20.0
PH meters with spares                      8.0         1                                               I _   1        -            2           16.0
Mini PH meters with spares                 3.6         1               -               -               1              1             3          11.0
Shakers                                   10.0         1               -               -               1              -            2           20.0
Wiley Mill with spares                    10.5         1               -               -               1                           2          21.0
Vacuum pump                                4.0         1               _               -               I              _            2            8.0
Water bath                                 9.0         1               -               -               1                           2          18.0
Cork barer                                 1.0         1               -               -               1              _            2            2.0
Seive shaker with seives                  10.0         1               -               -               1              -            2           20.0
Demineralizer with spares                  5.0        1               -               -               1              1             3          15.0
Blenders                                   1.0         1               -               -               1              -             2           2.0
Slide cabinet                              1.0         2               -               -               2              -            4            4.0
Spectrophotometer with spares             15.0        1                _                               1              _            2           30.0
Flame photometer                          33.0         1               -               -               1              -             2          66.0
Gas plant                                 36.0         1               -               -               1              -            2           72.0
Generator                                200.0         1               1               1               1              -             4         800.0



- 48 -                                  ANNEX 1
Table 13 (c)
Unit                                                                              Total       -otl
Description                 Cost      Tarahara      Parwanipur      Bhairawa      Mepalganj      Nawalpur      Units       Cost
The mohydrograph               8.0         1             1              1               1                         4            32.0
Lab. aspirator               25.0         1              1              1               1                         4           100.0
Moisture meter                 4.8        1              1              1               1                         4            19.C
Conductivity bridge            5.0        1              1              1              1                          4            20.0
Tensiometers                   1.0        5              5              5              5             2            22           22.0
Calculators                    5.0        1              1              1              1             1            5            25.0
Overhead projector             5.0        1               1             1              1                          4            20.0
Duplicator                   20.0                        1                             1                          2            40.0
Met equipment (set)           14.0        1              1              1              1             1            5            70.0
Soil Test kit                  1.4        1              1              1              1             1            5             7.0
Typewriters                    9.0        1              1              1              1             1            5            45.0
1,658.0
Add 25%(for glassware,
accessories, etc.)                                                                                                            315.0
1,973.0
D.  Farm Development
Land shaping and roads        1.0/,^.     20ha           27ha           lOha           35ha          33ha       125.0         125.0
Irrigation and drainage      1.4/hs.      35ha           27ha           10ha           35ha          20ha       127.0         178.0
Tubewells                  300.0          2              1              1              2                          6Nos.    1,800.0
Pumpsets                    65.0          2              1              1              2             1            7Nos.       455.0
2,558.0
1) One four wheel drive vehicle each for the Regional Research Outreach Officer for mobility
within the region; one four wheel drive vehicle for Nepalganj Regional Research Station
(presently vehicle is not available )
2) Pick up for transport of seed and minikits.
3) Motorcycles not available at present; will be used for field visit of staff of research
station.
4) Tarahara and Nepalganj stations will be brought up to the level of Parwanipur and
Bhairawa; additional machinery and equipment provided for Parwanipur and Bhairawa to
supplement those already available.



NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
RESEARCH ORGANIZATION: INCREMENTAL STAFF SALARIES
(Re. '000)
Anntial
[1- t Cost.          Year 1           Year 2                Year 3             Year 4              Year 5            Total        Total
Rs.'000         (No)   Cost          No)   Cost          No     C st        (No)   Cost         (    -b  0 Cost      NIDS         Cost
Incremental Research Staff
Class I Officer          1)          18,7           1       18.7                18.7                1 L8.7       1      18,7         1      18.7         1           93.5
Class II Officer         2)          13.7           -        -          1       L3 .7       1       13.7         1      13.7         1      13.7         ]           54.8
Class III Officer        3)          10.2           2       20.4        5       51.0        8       81.6         8      81.6         8      81.6         8          316.2
Research Outreach
Class II Officer         4)          13.7           1       13.7        3       41.1        4       54.8_        4      54.8         4      54.8         4          219.2
Sub Total                                            52,8               124.5               168.8               168.8              168.8                     683.7
Incremental Support Staff
Junior Technicians    5)              8.6           2       17,2        7       60.2        7       60.2         7      60.2         7      60.2         7          258.0
Junior Technician
Assistants               6)           5.8           3        L7.4       7       40.6        7       40.6         7      40.6         7      40.6         7          179.8
Workshop mechanics       7)           8.6           4       34.4        4       34.4        4       34.4         4      34.4         4      34.4         4          172.0
Drivers                  8)           5.8           7       40.6       10       58.0       10       58,0        10      58. 0       10      58.0        10          272.6
Sub Total                                           109.6               193.2               193.2               193,2               193,2        42          882.4
TOTAL:  TNCRIENTAL STAFF                            162.4               317.7               362.0               362,0               362.0                 1,566.1
1) To be in charge of Regional Research Station, Nepalganj,                     5) 2 for Bhairawa, 3 for Nepewlganj and 2 for Nawalpur
2) For Regional Research Stat:ioni, Bhairawav                                   6) 2 for Tarahava, 2 for Bhairawa and 3 for NepalgatjO.
3) 3 for Tarabara, 2 for Parwanipur, I for Bhairawa, andend Neplga
2 for Noara                                         I                                           rc                                       Be
8 ,   for Ts Iolrrc,;S  to iI Pd;-rc'<o,-, 3 fur- Bhao:rw.  cd
lou  c:j, fo-1.,sarra,   7o.--bwaniplr, BOhs jrawa, and Nepa'ga nj                 -or *i'.rs,ugru 7



NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
RESEARCH: INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS
Rs '000
Unit Cost
Rs           Year 1      Year 2       Year 3    Year 4       Year 5      Total Cost       F.E       % F.E
RESEARCH STATIONS
Office operating costs                                        50.0        75.0        100.0      100.0       100.0        425.0          42.5       10
Additional trials at
research stations a/                      1,300/ha           65.0       130.0        130.0      130.0       130.0        585.0        117.0        20
Farm Development Maintenance                                     -           -         64.0       64.0        64.0        192.0          19.2       10
Sub total                                             115.        2050         294.0      294.0       294.40     1,202.0         178.7       14.8
0
FIELD TRIALS
Adaptive trials on farmers
fields - sub center level b/                600/trial        36.0        97.0        155.0      155.0       155.0        598.0         59.8        10
Adaptive trials on farmers
fields to be laid out and
supervised by Research Outreach
officers c/                                 600/trial         6.0        18.0         24.0       24.0        24.0         96.0           9.6       10
Sub total                                              42.0        115.0       170        179.0       179.0         694.0         69.4       10
VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS
4 wheel drive (diesel)                    30,000/yr.         120.0       180.0        180.0      180.0       180.0        840.0                     90
Pick up van                               30,000/yr.          30.0        60.0         60.0       60.0        60.0        270.0                     90
Motorcycles                               10,000/yr.          40.0        50.0         50.0       50.0        50.0        240.0                     90
Sub total                                              190.0       290.0         290.0      290.0       290.0      1,350.0      1,215.0                        >
GRAND TOTAL                                            347.0       610.0         763.0      763.0       763.0      3,246.0      1,463.1
! 50 ha in year 1, 100 ha in year 2 and thereafter.
/ 6 trials per sub center - 60 in year 1, 162 in year 2, 258 in year 3 and thereafter.
/ 10 in year 1, 30 in year 2, and 40 in year 3 and thereafter.



- 51 -                        ANNEX 1
Tablei6  (a)
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
I RESEARCH STATIONS: EXISTING STAFF AND INCREMENTAL STAFF NEEDS
Class I              Class II          Class III
Research Station    Existing    New    Existing    New    Existing    New
Tarahara             1         _                            5          3
Parwanipur           1         _         3         _       10          2
Bhairawa            1                   3          1       13          1
Nepalganj           -          1        2          _       14
Nawalpur            _          -        1                   2          2
Hardinath                                3                 17
Total             3          1       12          1       61          8
II REQUIREMENT OF RESEARCH OUTREACH OFFICERS
Regional Station       Class II
Tarahara                1
Parwanipur              1
Bhairawa                1
Nepalganj               1
4



- 52 -
ANNEX L
Table l6 (b,
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
REGIONAL RESEARCH STATION: NEPALGANJ
Incremental Staff Needs
Sanctioned Posts                          Incremental
Cotton Research  Other Research            Total             Posts
Class             Class              Class              Class
I   II   III      I   II   III       I   II   III       I   II   III
Agronomy              -   1    4a)       _   1       2           2       6     lc)
Agricultural
Botany                _-    -        -        -      lb)    -   _        1      _   _    _
Entomology            -   -    1         -   -       1      -   -        2
Plant Pathology       -   -      -       _   _       1      _   _        1
Soil Science          -   -    1         -   -      lb)    -   -        2
Agricultural
Engineering              -      -                   lb)       -         1
Horticulture          -       -      -        -      1      -   -        1        -
TOTAL      -   1    6         _   1       8      _   2      14      1
a) One post is vacant
b) Vacant posts
c) One Class I officer to be in charge of
Regional Research Station



- 53 -                            ANNEX 1
Table 16(c)
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
REGIONAL RESEARCH STATION: BHAIRAWA
Incremental Staff Needs
Sanctioned Posts                       Incremental
Wheat Research   Other Research         Total             Posts
Class             Class             Class              Class
I   II   III      I   II   III      I   II   III       I   II   III
Agronomy             -   1      2       -   1    3        1   2      8  _
Agricultural         1   -      2       -   la)  la)      -          1 _         -
Botany
Entomology           -                -      -    -    -                 -       lb)  -
Plant Pathology      -   -      2       -    -   la)   _             3  _  _
Soil Science         -   -      -       -    -   1                   1
Agriculture          -   -                     _ 1                   1  _  _        l
Engineering
Horticulture         - l-                                                  -           b)
TOTAL     1   1      6       _   2    7        1   3    13        _   1    1
a) Vacant posts
b) To provide basic minimum staff in Entomology and Horticulture.



- 54 -                             ANNEX 1
Table 16 (d)
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
REGIONAL RESEARCH STATION: PARWANIPUR
Incremental Staff Needs
Sanctioned Posts                    Incremental Posts
Rice Research   Other Research   Total
Class             Class        Class             Class
Description        I   II   III    I   II  III    I   II  III   I   II   III
Agronomy             -   la)  lb)    _         1           1      2   _   _      1
Agricultural         1   lb)  1       _    _  lc)    1   1        2   _ -    -
Botany
Entomology            _   _    _      _    _  1        _   _      1   _   _      1
Plant Pathology       _   _    1      _    _  1        _   _      2   -   _    _
Soil Science         -   -   -             lc) lc)          1    1   - _ _
Agricultural          -   _   _       _    _  1                   1 - -
Engineering
Horticulture          -   -   -       -    -  1        -   -      1
TOTAL          1   2    3           1   7       1   3    10               2d)
a) Post deployed to Agronomy Division, Khumaltar
b) Deputed to higher studies
c) Posts vacant
d) To strengthen Agronomy section because of deployment
of post to Khemaltar, and intensity research work
related to rice and other crops.



- 55 -
ANNEX 1
NEPAL                               Table 16(e)
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
RESEARCH SUB STATION: NAWALPUR
Incremental Staff Needs
Sanctioned         Incremental
Posts              Posts
I   II   III       I   II   III
Agronomy                  -   1    2a)        _    _    _
Agricultural Botany       -   -                         lb)
Entomology                -   -                         lb)
TOTAL              1    2         -    -   2
a) One post for research on peanuts and sunflower,
and second post for research on mustard.
b) To provide basic minimun staff for plant breeding
and Entomology.



- 56 -                             ANNEX 1
Table 16 (f)
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
REGIONAL RESEARCH STATION: TARAHARA
Incremental Staff Needs
Sanctional    Incremental
Posts          Posts
Class          Class
Description       I  II  III      I  II   III
Agronomy            1  -    1       _   _    1
Agricultural
Botany              -  - _   _ _             1
Engomology          _  _    1
Plant Pathology    -  -    la/
Soil Science        _  -    1
Agricultural
Engineering         _  -    -       -   -    1
Horticulture        -  -    la/
Total          1  _    5       _   _    3b/
a/ Vacant posts
b/  To strengthen agronomy section and to provide
basic minimum staff for Agricultural Botany
and Agricultural Engineering sections.



NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
(Rs ' 000)
Unit Cost      Year  1      Year  2       Year  3        Year  4      Year  5         Total        TOTAL
Number         COST
Baseline Study  a/               100.0      (2) 200.0    (3) 300.0    (3) 300.0          -             _              8            800.0
Ad-hoc Studies   b/              100.0            -       (2) 200.0    (3) 300.0       (3) 300.0   (4) 400.0         12          1,200.0
Training  c/                       0.2      (14)  3.0    (35)  7.0    (56) 11.0        (56) 11.0   (56) 1l.0         56             43.0
203.0         507.0         611.0          311.0        411.0       -           2,043.0
a/  Baseline study of each project district to be carried out in its first year
b/ Ad-hoc studies will be carried out on selected areas of a project activity
c/  Training of district staff of Food and Agricultural Marketing Services Department - 7 per district
x(D
H H



- 58 -                                                 ANNEX 1
Table 16
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
STRENGTHENING OF AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING UNIT
(Rs '000)
Unit Cost    Year 1    Year 2    Year 3   Year 4    Year 3    Total              Total Cost        F.E.        8F.E.
Number
Equipment & Supplies
Measuring Tape
(30 meters)           0.3        (10) 3.0       -           _        -          _          10            3.0
Pocket Calcu-
lators
(10 digits)           0.3        (10) 3.0       -           -        -          -          10            3.0
Drafting Eqilp'sent        -             50.0      -            -        -          -          -            50.0
and Supplies                                _                      _
Sub-total                           56.0      -           -        -          -                       56.0           56.0         100
Incremental Staff
Assistant Engineer    13.7            (1)13.7  (1)13.7       (1)13.7    (1)13.7  (1)13.7       1            68.5
Civil Overseers          7.0          (3)21.0  (8)56.0      (8)56,0    (8)56.0  (8)56.0        8          245.0
Sub-total                           34.7      69.7        69.7       69.7      69.7                  313.5
Incremental Operating
Costs
Operating Expenses                       10.0      30.0         30.0       30.0    20.0                    120.0
Travelling Expenses                      20.0      30.0         30.0       30.0    30.0                    140.0
Sub-total                           30.0      60.0        60.0       60.0    50.0                    260.0
Architect (Fee)  a/                       100.0    100.0         100.0       50.0      -                     350.0
TOTAL                               220,7    229.7        229.7      179.7   119.7                    979.5           56.0
a/    Consulting Architect to be appointed locally to design laboratories,  training
center buildings and offices.



NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
PURCHASE OF FERTILIZER
(Rs '000)
Unit Cost
(prtn)           Year I        Year 2         Year 3         Year 4          Year 5         Total            F.E.      e /e F.E.
Cost of Fertilizer      a)       Rs. 3,372      35,406.0      39,115.2          -              -               -           74,521.2        74,521.2         lOO
In Country Local Costs b)        Rs. 1,171      12,295.5      13,583.6          -              -                           25,879.1            -
Total Cost                          47,701.5      52,698.8          -               -              -          100,400.3         74,521.2
a)  Foreign exchange cost of fertilizer needed in the project districts: 10,500 tons
(year 1) and 11,600 tons (year 2).                                                                                            U
b) Local costs of all fertilizer purchased: 10,500 tons (year 1) and 11,600 tons (year 2).
H as



ANNEX 1
- 60 -                                                                 Table 20
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
OVERSEAS TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
(R,.'000)
RLSEARCU                                   Unit Cost         Year 1         Year 2          Year 3         Year 4          Year 5       Total   Totmi
Re'000/m.m    (n.r,) Cost   (m.m) Cost   (m.m) Cost   (m.m) Cost   (m..m) Cost    m.m                   Cost
1. Overseas 7LL,ainin
Training in India (I month)                            1.0        (10)   60.0   (10)  60.0    (10)  60.0    (10)  60.0    (10)  60.0              50        300.0
Short Courses at
International Insit ttions
(6 months)                                       15.()               -      (12) 180.0    (12) 180.0    (12) 1I0.0    (12) 180.0             48        720,0
Training Visits to Institutions in
South & z,outh East Asia (3 months)                23.2        (6)  139.2   (6)  139.2   (6)  139.2    (6)  139.2   (6)  139.2                  30        696.0
.ub-Total                                                       199.2           379.2           379.2          379.2           379.2              1,71660
r. fechnical Assistance
iesearch Advisor (6 months)                          78.0        (1)    78.0    (2)                     78C.0     (1)     78.0    (1)    78.0    ()    78,0  6  466.0
rarr development apecialist
('2 mronths)                                       78.0        (3)  234.0   (6)  468.0    (3)  234.0                  -               _         12       936,0
Suh-Total                                                       312.0           624,0           312,0            78,0           78,0              1,404,0
EXTENSICN
I. (verseas riaining
Trsining in india (I month)                            6.3        (30) IFO.0    ( 70) 300.0    (60) 360.0    (25) 150.0                 -        165        990.C
ahort coturses in Crop Irotection
(6 uonths)                                          6.0        (12)  72.0    (IF) 108.0    (18) 108.0                _                -        4F,       2P.0
Short courses at International
Ins,itntinns (3 months)                            15.0                        (9)  135.0   (12) 180.0   (12) IO6.0    (12) 16O.0              45        675.0
oub-Total                                                       252.0           543.0          648.0           330.0          10.0               1;953.0
2. Technical Assistance
Extension Specialist (15 months)                     78.0        (4)   312.0   (4)  312.0    (4)  312.0    (3)  234.0                  -          15     1,170,0
Extension Communication
Specialist (9months)                               78.0        (3)  234.0   (3)  234.0    (3)  234.0                 -               -           9       702.0
sub-rotal                                                       546.0           546.0          546.0           23 .             -                 1,872.0
INPUT CORPORATION
1.  Technical Assistance
Management Advice to AIC                            78.0        (6)  466.0              -               -              -               _           6       48.0
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
1. Technical Assistance
Management Advice to ADBN                           78.0         (5) 390.0              -                -             -               -           5      390.0
GRAND TOTAL                                                2 ,167.2          2,092.2        1,885.2          1,021.2          637.2              7,803.0



- 61 -
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
EXTENSION ORGANIZATION
DIRECTOR GENERAL
OF
AGRICULTURE
l                    ~~~~~~~PROJEC:T
l__________ r __________COORDINATOR
REGIONAL DIRECTOR -
REGIONS (4)                      OF
AGRICULTURE
AGRICULTURAL
DISTRICTS (8)                DEVELOPMENT            _(S3
OFFICER                   .
SUB CENTER
SUB CENTERS 5431               JUNIOR TECHNICIAN
JUNIOR TECHNICAL
ASSISTANT
(125)
P.LMA.A. (500)
9 WARDS                     World Bank - 21898



- 62 -
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
LINKAGES BETWEEN RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
CENTRAL                                DDG
TECHNICAL         -----H
COMMITTEE                              RSAC
DEPARTMIIIENW BT  _                                                                219
AGRICULTURIEI 
S ~~~~PROJECT
.                 X               ~~~~~~~~~~COOR DINATOR
DISRIC                                          REGIONAL
TICH4NIaCAL !REGIONAL                              R ESEARC H
CO ;ITEI                   WORKSHOP                  STATIO.NO
aswey                                            FIELD 
AD>O     >_ _ _ _ _ _ _ t                         TRIAL
SW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _o 40  PROGRAMIS
__     0040
F   .      _~~                      ~       ~       ~      ~            '              # 0
aIT  < _  ~~~0
EL                                                  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World Bank -21899



-63 -                         ANNEX 2
Page 1
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
TRAINING
Training Strategy
1.       Since the extension service has to improve the quality of farming
practices, training of research and extension staff and farmers would be such
that it imparts the specific information that is needed. The extension
workers work with the farmers in performing specific skills. This implies
that PLAA, JTA and JT must be able to perform all tasks and, likewise, SMS who
train these workers must also be able to perform all these tasks. Furthermore,
trainers of SMS (research workers and senior staff) need to be acquainted with
farming operations and how they are best performed.
2.       In designing appropriate training programs it would be necessary
to identify the skills and knowledge required by farmers to improve their
production. The PLAA would need training in what is to be passed on to
the farmers. The JTA and JT should be able to answer more advanced technical
questions. Research workers have to develop ability to identify factors
limiting farm production in the field. This implies joint farm visits by
research and extension workers.
3.       The project would support a variety of inservice and preservice
training programs for staff. These are briefly described below.
Panchayat Level Agricultural Assistants (PLAA)
4.        Preservice Training.   PLAA would have generally completed about
8 years of schooling. They would be given a 35 day training with emphasis
on practicals and development of skills.
5.        Orientation Training.  All PLAA would receive special training
in extension and T&V system.
6.       Fortnightly Training.  Central to the entire extension approach
and an integral part of it is the fortnightly training session. The
training would be carried out by the SMS and, reviewed by the PLAA and his
JTA in the alternate week. The PLAA, JTA and JT would attend the fortnightly
training given by the SMS on a specific day, once in two weeks. Most sessions
would be held where there are means for practical application of lessons
taught, viz., a farmer's field, a seed farm, an experimental station or a
training center. Training wouwd cover actual field situations likely to arise
over the next two week period. Time would be allowed to PLAA to carry out
field operations and practicals. During training, PLAA would have a chance
to raise and discuss problems encountered in the previous fortnight. Repre-
sentatives of Sajha, ADBN, AIC and Irrigation would be invited to attend part



- 64 -                          ANNEX 2
Page 2
of the session to ensure coordination of related acLivities.  In the inter-
vening week, PLAA would meet with their JTA to review current problems.
7.        Preseason Training.   Prior to each of the two main agricultural
seasons (summer and winter), PLBA would receive a 3-day training covering
the main seasonal crops and practices recommended for them.  The training
would be held in two to three convenient groups for each district where
facilities would be available.  The ADA and SMS would orga-lze and attend
this session. The training would initiate the extension campasign for the
coming season.
8.        Special Short Courses.  PLAA would be given training in particular
disciplines/crops which are of special importance to their areas,
Junior Technical Assistants and Junior Technicians (JTA/JT)
9.        Preservice Training.  JTA and JT would have received one year
and two year basic training respectively in the Institute of Agricultural
Sciences, Rampur. A few JT would have been promoted from JTA.
10.       Orientation Training.  All JTA and JT would receive special train-
ing in extension methodology and the T&V system.
11.       Fortnightly Training.  JTA and JT would attend all training
sessions of their PLAA. They would be given extra training by SMS to
develop greater subject matter efficiency.
12.       Preseason Training.   The JTA and JT would participate in the
3-day preseason training.
13.       Special Short Courses.  Selected JTA and JT would be given
specialized training for a week in particular crops and disciplines which
are of importance to their area of operation.
Subject Matter Specialists (SMS)
14.       Preservice Training.  SMS would generally be university graduates.
Some of them would have post-graduate qualifications.
15.       Orientation Training.  All SMS would receive special training                        v
in extension.
16.       Inservice Training.  SMS would participate in the preseason
training, regional training and specialized short courses.
(a) Preseason Training. The SMS would particpate in the
3-day preseason training prior to the main cropping
season.



ANNEX 2
Page  3
- 65 -
(b) Regional Training. To provide effective training to PLAA,
JTA and JT once every two weeks, the SMS would have to be
up to date in their area of specialization and ensure that
training has a practical bias. For this purpose, the SMS
would participate in a regional training once every two
months at the Regional Research Station.
(c) Special Short Courses. In order to build up professional
competence of SMS it is considered necessary to provide
them opportunities for higher training in research insti-
tutes within the country and outside.
Administrative Staff
17.       Orientation Training.  All supervisory personnel would undergo
training in extension methodology and T&V system. Their specific roles
would be explained in detail.
18.       Inservice Training.  Special training programs would be organized
by the Director General of Agriculture.
Responsibilities
19.       The Project Coordinator, in consultation with Deputy Director
General Research and other appropriate staff would be responsible for
planning and organizing all training programs. A summary of the training
activ[Lties is as under:
Training                                          Parti-
Activity      Venue    Frequency    Duration   cipants    Trainers    Organizers
Preservice   RTC         4x year      35 days    PLAA         RRS Staff   DOA
(PLAA)                                            recruits
Fortnightly  Within   26x year         1 day      PLAA,       SMS          ADO, ADAO,
(PLAA)      District                              JTA, JT                  SMS
Regional      RRS        6x year       1 or 2    All SMS,   RRS Staff   Project
Training                                days      ADO and    DOA, ROO    Coordinator,
(SMS)                                             AADO of                  (DDG) Re-
region                   search
Preseason    Within    2x year         3 days    PLAA         SMS, ADO,   ADO, SMS
(PLAA)        District                                        ROO, Re-
search
Staff
Preseason    District  2x year         3 days    JTA, JT    SMS, ADO,         ADO, SMS
(JTA/JT)                                                      ROO, Re-
search
Staff



ANNEX 2
- 66 -                         Page  4
Training                                        Parti-
Activity     Venue   Frequency   Duration   cipants  Trainers  Organizers
Special       RRS,                             PLAA      Research  Regional Dir.,
Short        RTC       2x year    7 days       JTA, JT  Staff,    Proj. Coor-
Courses                                                  ROO, SMS  dinator
Special      RRS       As needed  2-12 wks   SMS         Research  DDG (Research),
Short        Khumal-                           Senior   Staff &   Proj. Coor-
Courses       tar                              Staff    other       dinator
Outside                                    Insti-
Country                                    tutions
Project      District              2 days      Dis-      Project   DxA
Orient-                                        trict    Coor-
ation                                          Staff    dinator
Head-                2 days      HQ        Project   DOA
quarters                         Staff    Coor-
dinator



NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
FINANCIAL YEAR                 |          FY 82                      FY 83                     FY 84                      FY 85                      FY 86
PROJECT YEAR                   |            1                          2                          3                          4                          5
CALENDAR YEAR                1981                       1982                       1983                      1984                        1985                1986
QUARTER              1     2      3      4     1      2      3     4      1      2      3     4      1      2      3     4      1      2      3     4      1      2
CIVILWORKS
Site Selection
Prepare Tenders
Complete Construction                                            -             -     -      m     -                    -      -            -      -     -
VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
Prepare Tenders                        _     _                                                                  23
Purchase Vehicles
Purchase Equipment                                               -             -      -            -     --
EXTENSION STAFF
Appoint Coordinator                           1
Appoint ADO                                         1                                                     2
Appoint SMS                                         3                          2                          5
ApDoint PLAA                                       87                         173                        165                        50                         25
Appoint Training Officer                            2
RESEARCH STAFF
Appoint ROD 
Appoint RRC
Appoint Other Research Staff                                                   4                          3
ENGINEERING STAFF
Appoint Assistant Engineer
Appoint Overseers                                                              5
PROJECT MONITORING
Finalize Format for Benchmark Study
Complete Benchmark Study
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Appoint Consultants                                        6
Completion of AIC and Fertilizer Study
Finalization of Fertilizer Strategy and
Program
W k  z
World Bank -22329          p 



- 68 -                     ANNEX 3
Table 2
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
ESTIMATED IDA DISBURSEMENTS
(US $ Million)
Disbursements              Semester                Cumulative
(IDA FY)
1982     1st                 0.1
2nd                4.0                       4.1
1983     1st                 O.3                      4.4
2nd                4.0                       8.4
1984     1st                 1.0                      9.4
2nd                1.0                      10.4
1985     1st                 1.5                     11.9
2nd                1.5                      13.4
1986     1st                 2.0                     15.4
2nd                1.0                      16.4
1987     1st                 0.6                     17.0
2nd                0.5                      17.5
/a   Estimated effectiveness date: April 1, 1981.
/b   Estimated closing date:  July 15, 1987.



- 69 -                     ANNEX 4
Page I
NEPAL
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE OF CONSULTANTS
1. BACKGROUND
1.        Short term consultants would be required under the technical assist-
ance programme to assist the Department of Agriculture (DOA) in implementing
the Extension, Training, and Research components of the project, and to study
the working of Agricultural Inputs Corporation and the Agricultural Development
Bank. The proposed consultant facility would include:
(a) an agricultural extension specialist, 15 manmonths;
(b) an extension communication specialist, 9 manmonths;
(c) an agricultural research specialist, 6 manmonths;
(d) a research farm development specialist, 12 manmonths;
(e) management advice to AIC, 6 manmonths; and
(f) management advice to ADBN, 5 manmonths.
II. TERMS OF REFERENCE
Agricultural Extension Specialist
2.        The specialist would have wide experience of the training and
visit system of extension and be able to provide assistance in training
local counterparts and field staff in the following areas:
(a) orientation to managerial and field staff in T&V System;
(b) organization of field work of PLAA, JTA, and JT;
(c) methodology to be followed by PLAA and JTA during fort-
nightly field visits;
(d) selection and working with contact farmers;
(e) development of extension techniques and approaches;
(f) defining job responsibilities of PLAA, JTA, SMS and ADO; and
(g) evolving simple methods of evaluation of extension visits
and their impact.



ANNEX 4
- 70 -                       Page  2
3.        The specialist would be expected to make visits to Nepal over a
four year period. The first visit would be in the middle of 1981 followed
by three more visits in the next three years of the project.
Extension Communication Specialist
4.        The specialist would have experience of the training and visit
system of extension, especially in techniques of effective training of field
staff and development of simple training and extension material. He would
be able to provide the following assistance:
(a)  effective organization of preseason and fortnightly training
programs for PLAA, JTA, and JT;
(b) a study of existing extension material produced by the DOA-
leaflets, pamphlets, posters, etc., and improve their content
and quality to meet needs of the project;
(c) evolve simple communication aids which could be produced
locally and used by PLAA and JTA during fortnightly training;
(d) evolving a system of incorporating approved research recommen-
dations into simple lesson plans and "impact points" for use
in the fortnightly training sessions and into the training
material used by training institutions (RTC);
(e) help the training staff (SMS and RTC staff) to develop and
update crop manuals, based on local conditions, for use in
the fortnightly training sessions and in the RTC; and
(f) train field staff in effective use of different extension
aids.
The specialist would be expected to make visits to Nepal over a three year
period. The first visit would be in the middle of 1981 followe by two more
follow up visits.
Agricultural Research Specialist
5.        An agricultural research adviser is required to assist the Deputy
Director of Agriculture (Crops Research) and the Development Region Directors
in developing a sound system of agricultural research aimed at solving the
problems faced by the farmers in the various agroecological zones of the
Terai.
6.        The consultant would:
(a) evaluate the on-going research programs and advise on
any changes of direction or new programs considered
necessary;



- 71 -                        ANNEX 4
Page 3
(b) review the methods of allocating priorities to research
programs, ensure that linkages with extension and the
farmers are adequate, and that research is responsive to
the farming problems in the particular agroecological
zone;
(c) review the annual reports received from the research
stations and advise on increasing the effectiveness of
the internal monitoring and evaluation process;
(d) visit the research stations supported under the Project,
inspect the research work and discuss the programs with
the scientific staff;
(e) visit the sites of some of the experiments conducted on
farmer's fields, assess the relevance of the experimental
treatments to the farmer's needs and estimate the value
of the experiments to the extension service;
(f) advise on methods to test, disseminate and utilize the
research results from the programs at the research sta-
tions and on farmer's fields.
7.        The consultant would visit Nepal annually for periods of about
4 weeks beginning in the first project year. A total of six manmonths
of effort would be required.
Research Farm Development Specialist
8.        Short-term technical assistance is required at the research stations
in the Terai, which will be developed into regional stations under the project,
in order to ensure proper land development and research station layout. This
will involve land levelling and shaping, surface drainage, water courses for
irrigation, tubewell location and soil and water conservation work.
9.        The specialist would provide technical supervision and training to
local counterparts in the following areas.
(a) farm planning and layout on the basis of soils, topo-
graphy, climate and cropping and research needs to
ensure that land divisions are made in relationship
with soil type to achieve homogeneity of experimental
plots.
(b) design of surface drainage systems including open ditch
outlets and grassed waterways and also soil and water
conservation techniques and structures.
(c) development of suitable techniques for land shaping and
levelling.



-72-                       ANNEX 4
Page 4
(d)  design, layout and construction of water courses for
irrigation water.
(e)  design construction and testing of tubewells, including
selection of location, tubewell size, depth, type of
materials and pumping device;
10.       Station contour maps would be produced by the officer-in-charge
of the research station before the consultant's first visit to Nepal. The
officer-in-charge of the station and the engineer would work closely with
the consultant.
11.       The consultant would be expected to make three visits to Nepal over
a three year period. The first visit would be in late 1981. During the final
visit, the consultant would be expected to supervise the implementation of the
station development work plans.
Management Consultant to AIC
12.       The consultant will have wide experience of managing an organiza-
tion having responsibility for purchase, handling, storage and distribution
of agricultural inputs, especially fertilizer. The consultant would:
(a)  carry out a detailed study of the working of the Agricul-
tural Inputs Corporation (AIC) and suggest improvements
in its organization, its procurement, financial and
pricing policies, storage arrangements, and distribution
system; and
(b)  suggest broad outlines of a National fertilizer strategy
over a five year period, long term financial requirements,
and the institutional arrangements needed to implement
such a program.
13.       The consultant would visit Nepal and finalize recommendations by
January 31, 1981. The detailed TOR would be spelled out in the UNDP project
document.
Management Consultant to ADBN
14.       The consultant will have experience in managing credit institutions
with responsibility for providing on an integrated basis agricultural credit
service to farmers.
15.       The consultant would visit Nepal and finalize his recommendations
by January 31, 1982. The detailed TOR would be spelled out in the UNDP
project document.



\                                             82                                                                  84                                                                   80                                                                   B88
N E PAL
Hum.ia                                                                                                               AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Da'c'z.                    <           Humi                  ?1                                                                                                                                      PHASING OF DISTRICTS:
D-r' archula                                                                                                                                                                                             ________k__A____
ONGOING PROJECTS
A sr   Bajhang    (   P    Ng  Mugu                                                                                                  H         PROJECT YEAR 1
gBaltadi  t  >  >\/ Bajura                                                                                                                               ________*___|  |  PROJECTYEAR3
/Sa,tadGihngN                                                     h                                                                                                                                       P /R OJECT Y EAR 2
RESEARtCH AND TRAINING FACILITIES.
Dan d_ldhura   to) J              $ Tib     t |                                               ~Dolpa \                                                                               KHUMALTAR RESEARCH STATION
{i Dandeldh.ra/  Doti                                                   I                                                   I                 A /                                                              REGIONAL RESEARCH STATIONS
Achham   ,a-                                                                                                      e                                                    L4/         RESEARCH SUB-STATIONS
(  _____    ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~4Mustan,g                                                                                                                 I'.        REGIONAL TRAINING CENTERS
J )2                                                                                                                                                                                                     S \ < </ \ i   4  BOUNDARIES:
Jajarkot   /________/____  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
Rokum                                                           . Kailali  T  {}   t   <   X   n  <  Manang  < \   /       =        =    ZONAL BOUNDARIES
+ K/ilali                  Surkhet                    Rolpa \    (jj             Magdi      \JParbat                                           )                                                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
A       A  $         ;                     Mr  Mg _ag_
28Atet 0                                 Gardiamoo e PH INA \                              D~          --~ ~ B agilBng a  ,KEIamai. nq    GuSaha/                              a P       1 
Ba k Ith NDI  A   > X /  g                                                                                   )                                 Si    dh    liGulm i  Say n j  h
\   -f  fAYof FMeAl     T                 dbyhe   WodB,                                                                                         4                    2      \      5X            -    -/    SQtJrsrg   /   oran9 ,_K,u
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~Dai SSankhuwaak
__ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ .4tt                                                                                                                                      B            GMterae     terprt\wic tI achSdtJfOoIIakhfrthaove,ne,    atal |     * 2                     haa      ! r
C StA \~~~~~-   *. budang eskshon m o n thO   map    do                                                                     -o imply,          o t~he pA          r    Af th W~\orld-hub                                        fv-nk-nd stj I
CHINA                                                 -ACEEO                                                                      deg       atad'ZSaku                                                                          Tapiejung
4?'   >                                                                                       rStSBfld       NOStPB I               N   A            Makmaepnyr      u      KgmbEret  )theSlegaltatusofteEEhrap C hita.            Sabha
+    7         VLA          2BHUTAN                                                                                           84                       R  A                                                                                                                       tat  C
4            K                                                                            .                                                   N1~~~~~~~~)                        \Okhaldhu    .~~~~~~ .J_
INDIA              K-(                                                                                                                     )Parse,.  Si,,dhuli                                                            ShluIr   o       C     - '
KILOMETERS 0    20    40    6O    80    100   120   140                                              Dn,*,,              ~~~                                                                   h,nk,t
MILES~                                                                                                                               '0             
0    20        4,0        60        80        100                                                               arai              "  'Udaipur
Hal' OP SPNBAo                                                         0   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                    -U        Mo~~~~~~~~raln 
Th, map has Sb- prepard by the Word B-k,s staff -xcI--ely for, the oem,np.                                                                           11     SrausAri*                                              hp
a)  OSsr                                               f the reder of theprtpe to oh,sh it, o ttached The de---so,en  sed-ad the                                                                                                  ap
~~~   lAS                                hsos~~~~~~~ ..d .. oshso, on th, map do sot imply. -n the p.,t sf the W-rld B-ok -nddro/r\ k                                                                                                                                  
dfhl,ates _op nodymeot on thplgal Otato ofany t-r,tOry or sy endorsmet o
_________________________________           I                                                                    8.4                                                                   860 8'0



