Page  1
July 23, 1998
Mr. Pedro Sampaio Malan 
Minister of Finance 
Ministério da Fazenda 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco P 
70048-900 Brasília-D. F. 
BRAZIL
Re:
Recife Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project
(Loan Number 3915-BR)
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Sir:
We refer to the Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil and the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), as amended, the  
Shareholder’s Agreement between the Bank and the State of Pernambuco and the Project 
Agreement between the Bank and Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos (CBTU); all dated 
April 3, 1996.  Pursuant to the request dated June 25, 1998 from CBTU, we are pleased 
to inform you of our agreement to amend the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 
1 to the Loan Agreement as set forth in Annex 1 to this letter of amendment.
Please note that in order to reflect the conversion of the undisbursed amount of 
the loan, as per our letter to you dated January 8, 1998, the attached table is now 
showing two different columns.  The first one refers to the amounts allocated under 
“currency pool” terms (already disbursed), and the second, to the undisbursed amounts 
converted into “LIBOR-based single currency” terms.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by signing the two 
originals of this letter in the space provided below, and returning one to us.  This 
amendment shall enter into effect on the date of this letter, provided that the Bank 
receives one original of it signed by you.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Gobind T. Nankani 
Director 
Country Management Unit-Brazil 
Latin American and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
Itamar José Barbalho
Authorized Representative
Cc with Attachment:
Mr. Daniel Andrade Ribeiro de Oliveira, Secretary, SEAIN
Mr. Joào Bosco de Almeida, Secretário de Transportes de Pernambuco
       Mr. Luiz Otavio Mota Valadares, Director/President CBTU
       Mr. Flavio Mota Monteiro, Project Coordinator CBTU/IBRD
Page  2
