Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3915-BR
                          Shareholder's Agreement
         (Recife Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project)
                                  between
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    and
                            STATE OF PERNAMBUCO
                            Dated April 3, 1996
                                                   LOAN NUMBER 3915-BR
                          SHAREHOLDER'S AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 3, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF
PERNAMBUCO (the State).
      WHEREAS: (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Federative Republic of Brazil (the Borrower) and the
Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred and two
million dollars ($102,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but on condition, inter alia, that
the State  agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank
as are set forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   the State, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower and of the terms and
conditions of the transfer provided in the Convenio Basico, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this
Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                                Definitions
Page  2
      Section 1.01.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to
this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
                                ARTICLE II
                 Execution of the Project; Management and
                        Operations of the PE Entity
      Section 2.01.  The State  declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall collaborate, and cause
the PE Entity to collaborate, with CBTU in the carrying out of
the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, environmental, safety,
financial, engineering and public transportation practices, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, all
resources, facilities and services required for the Project.
      Section 2.02.  The State  shall:
      (a)   not later than June 30, 1996, establish the PE Entity
as a legally independent corporation, having as majority
shareholder the State, with sufficient powers and authority to
accept the Transfer and to own and operate all assets included
therein;
      (b)   not later than December 15 of each year after the
Transfer is effected, until December 15, 2001, execute
agreements with the PE Entity, satisfactory to the Bank (the
Contract Plans), providing, inter alia, for the compliance by
the PE Entity with the Performance Targets and for the
financial contributions and other actions required from the
State  to enable the PE Entity to attain such targets; and
      (c)   duly perform, and cause the PE Entity to duly
perform, all their obligations under each Contract Plan and,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving a Contract Plan or any
provision thereof.
      Section 2.03.  (a) The State  shall cause the PE Entity to
prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than February 28 and
August 31 of each year after the Transfer is effected and until
the completion of the Project, a report of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request on the
operation of the STU-REC System during the corresponding
calendar semester preceding each such report.
      (b)   The State  shall, and shall cause the PE Entity after
the Transfer is effected to, participate in the reviews
referred to in Section 2.11 of the Project Agreement.
      Section 2.04.  The State  shall cause the PE Entity to
establish not later than three months after the Transfer is
effected, and thereafter maintain, a management information
system satisfactory to the Bank, to monitor the STU-REC
System's operations.
      Section 2.05.  The State shall:
      (a)   not later than one year from the date of this
Agreement, furnish to the Bank a financial, technical and
institutional plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
Page  3
integration and consolidation of the RMR bus system, including
control of illegal bus services, with the STU-REC System; and
      (b)   not later than one month after the entry into
operation of the TIP-TIMBI and Recife-Cajueiro Seco links, put
such plan into effect in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
      Section 2.06.  The State shall cause the PE Entity to,
starting not later than one year after the Transfer is
effected, offer to the private sector, through at least four
invitations to bid and under contractual arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank;
      (a)   the exploitation of train station space, aerial space
above stations and/or parking terminals; and/or
      (b)   the carrying out of automatic fare collection and/or
other activities related to the operations of the STU-REC
System.
      Section 2.07.  (a) The State  shall cause the PE Entity to
carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance
with sound administrative, financial, environmental, safety and
public transportation practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent
staff in adequate numbers.
      (b)   For the purposes of paragraph (a) above, the State
shall cause the PE Entity to:
            (i)   prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than
                  six months after the Closing Date or such later
                  date as may be agreed for this purpose between
                  the Bank and the State, a plan, of such scope
                  and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
                  request, for the future operation of the
                  Project; and
            (ii)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
                  exchange views with the PE Entity on said plan.
      Section 2.08.  The State  shall cause the PE Entity to
operate and maintain at all times its plant, machinery,
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly
as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all
in accordance with sound engineering, safety, environmental,
financial and public transportation practices.
      Section 2.09.  The State shall cause the PE Entity to take
out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other
provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
      Section 2.10. The State shall cause EMTU or another
appropriate entity to carry out its activities of coordinating
and recommending common policies on urban transport pricing,
regulation, financing and project evaluation and selection in
the RMR.
      Section 2.11.  The State and the Municipality shall, after
the Transfer is effected, take all necessary measures, to the
satisfaction of the Bank, to transfer all of the assets and
rights resulting from the execution of the Project to the PE
entity.
                                ARTICLE III
Page  4
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 3.01.  (a)  The State  shall cause the PE Entity
to maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
      (b)   The State shall cause the PE Entity to:
            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial
                  statements (balance sheets, statements of
                  income and expenses and related statements) and
                  the records and accounts for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than four months after
                  the end of each such year: (A) certified copies
                  of its financial statements for such year as so
                  audited; and (B) the report of such audit by
                  said auditors of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
                  and
           (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and
                  financial statements as well as the audit
                  thereof, as the Bank shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
                                ARTICLE IV
                       Effective Date; Termination;
                        Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 4.01.  This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
      Section 4.02.  This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of the State  hereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify the State  thereof.
      Section 4.03.  All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any
cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01.  Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in
writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when 
it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.  The addresses so 
specified are:
For the Bank:
Page  5
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
For the State:
Secretaria de Transportes, Energia
   e Comunicacies do Estado de Pernambuco
Avenida Cruz Cabuga 1419
Santo Amaro - Recife - Pernambuco
CEP 50040-000
Telex:
(81) 4772
With copies to:
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Ministerio do Planejamento e Orcamento
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "K" - 5o andar
70040-906 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
(61) 1146
Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos - CBTU
Estrada Velha da Tijuca 77
20531-080 Rio de Janeiro, RJ
Brazil
Telex:
(21) 22793
Section 5.02.  any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the State, may 
be taken or executed by the Secretary of Transport, Energy and Communications, or such 
other person or persons as such Secretary shall designate in writing, and the State 
shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03.  This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the city of
Washington, D.C., as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani
Page  6
Authorized Representative
STATE OF PERNAMBUCO
By /s/ Marcelo Ayres
Authorized Representative
