Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3915-BR
Loan Agreement
(Recife Metropolitan Transport Decentralization Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 3, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 3915-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 3, 1996, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) in view of the provisions of the Borrower's Constitution governing 
public metropolitan urban transport and the Borrower's Law 8693, dated August 3, 1993, 
and published in
the Borrower's Official Gazette, dated August 4, 1993, and in order to improve the 
operational efficiency and financial performance of suburban railways services and 
facilitate their integration with other transport services under state and municipal 
jurisdictions, the Borrower has decided to transfer the ownership, management and 
operation of Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos (CBTU)'s assets in the metropolitan 
region of Recife (the STU-REC System) to the State of Pernambuco (the
State);
(B)
the State has accepted the transfer of the STU-REC System, pursuant to 
the Law and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the agreement 
entered into among the Borrower, CBTU and the State on June 1, 1995 (the Convenio 
Basico);
(C)
to attain the objectives of such transfer, the Borrower, the Bank, CBTU 
and the State have agreed that it is necessary that: (i) CBTU carry out the physical 
rehabilitation and financial restructuring of the STU-REC System together with the 
training program, studies and action plans included in the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (ii) the State establish an entity (the PE Entity) 
as provided in the Shareholder's Agreement (as hereinafter defined);
Page  2
(D)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(E)
the Project will be carried out by CBTU with the Borrower's and the 
State's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available 
to CBTU the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement, in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and CBTU 
and in the Shareholder's Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
State;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not a member 
of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such 
payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
(c)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any further 
withdrawals 
under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, 
Section 3 of the 
Bank's Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Central Line" means the main line of the STU-REC System, with about 20.5 
kilometers of double track, connecting the center of the city of Recife with the 
district of Coqueiral, where the line splits in two branches towards the city of 
Jaboatao and TIP (as hereinafter defined);
(b)
"Contract Plan" means any of the agreements referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) of the Shareholder's Agreement;
(c)
"EMU" means electric multiple unit, a standard train set of four 
passenger cars of which two are motorized cars;
(d)
"EMTU" means Empresa Metropolitana de Transportes Urbanos, the State 
agency for urban transport in the RMR;
(e)
"Estatutos" means CBTU's charter, dated March 15, 1984, which established 
CBTU, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(f)
"MT" means the Ministry of Transportation of the Borrower;
 
Page  3
(g)
"PIU" means the unit established by CBTU, pursuant to Resolutions 079/95 
and 080/95, dated May 19, 1995, of the President of CBTU, for purposes of the overall 
implementation of the Project;
(h)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and CBTU of even 
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules to the
Project Agreement;
(i)
"RMR" means the metropolitan region of the city of Recife, composed of 
the Municipality of Recife and other twelve municipalities surrounding the city of 
Recife;
(j)
"Shareholder's Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and the 
State of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(k)
"South Line" means the line of the STU-REC System, with about 32 
kilometers of extension, connecting the cities of Recife and Cabo;
(l)
"South Line Environmental Impact Assessment" means the assessment 
(including the population resettlement action plan included therein), dated April 15, 
1995, of the environmental
impact of the works to be carried out under Part A.1 (c) and (g) of the Project;
(m)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(n)
"TIP" means the intermodal passenger terminal in the municipality of 
Jaboatao;
(o)
"TIP-Timbi Environmental Impact Assessment" means the assessment 
(including the population resettlement action plan included therein), dated April 15, 
1995, of the environmental
impact of the works to be carried out under Part A.1 (b), (f), (l) and (m) (ii) of the 
Project;
(p)
"Transfer" means the transfer of ownership of the STU-REC System through 
the State, to the PE Entity, including the management and operational authority and 
all responsibility and
accountability for the operation and management of such System; and
(q)
"Performance Targets" means the operational and financial performance 
targets set forth in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement for the operation of the 
STU-REC System.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various currencies that shall 
have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred and two million 
dollars ($102,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Page  4
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated 
at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 
the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%).  On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated at the 
rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect 
of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08.  The Minister of Transportation of the Borrower, or the person or 
persons designated by such Minister, are designated as representatives of the Borrower 
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
Page  5
provisions of Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall cause CBTU to perform all its
obligations set forth in the Project Agreement, shall take or cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable CBTU to perform such obligations, and shall not 
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
(b)
As and when required for the timely execution of the Project, the 
Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to CBTU, on a grant basis, 
through annual budget allocations.
Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03.  The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by CBTU 
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
Section 3.04.  The Borrower, through MT, shall participate in the Project 
reviews referred to in Section 2.11 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall, after the Transfer is effected, take all 
necessary measures, to the satisfaction of the Bank, to transfer all of the assets and 
rights resulting from the execution of the Project to the PE entity.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
Page  6
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon 
to support the related withdrawals; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, all funds and other resources required by 
CBTU to cover, until the Transfer is effected, any differences between total working 
expenses and total operating revenues of the STU-REC System.
(b)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
the term "total working expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, 
including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of 
taxes, but excluding provision for 
depreciation and interest and other charges 
on debt; and
 
(ii)
the term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to
operations. 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
CBTU or the State shall have failed to perform any of their respective 
obligations under the Project Agreement or the Shareholder's Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that CBTU or the State will be able to perform any of their respective obligations 
under the Project Agreement or the Shareholder's Agreement.
(c)
The Estatutos shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely the 
ability of CBTU to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CBTU or for the suspension of 
its operations before the completion of the Project and no other arrangements, 
satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been made by the Borrower to ensure the timely 
completion of the Project and the attainment of its objectives.
(e)
Any of the parties to the Convenio Basico shall have failed to perform 
any of its respective obligations thereunder.
(f)
The State or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any 
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the PE Entity or for the suspension 
of its operations.
(g)
By December 31, 1996 or when disbursements from the Loan Account shall 
have reached the equivalent of 60% of the amount of the Loan, whichever is earlier, 
the Borrower, CBTU and the State shall have failed to effect the Transfer to the 
satisfaction of the Bank.
Page  7
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any event specified in paragraph (a), (e) or (g) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
(b)
Any event specified in paragraph (c), (d) or (f) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the 
Central Bank of Brazil.
Section 6.02.  The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a)
from the State, that the Shareholder's Agreement has been duly authorized 
or ratified by the State, and is legally binding upon the State in accordance with its 
terms;
(b)
from CBTU, that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by CBTU, and is legally binding upon CBTU in accordance with its terms;
(c)
from the Borrower, that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by 
the Central Bank of Brazil; and
(d)
from the Borrower, the State and CBTU, that all acts, consents and 
approvals, together with all necessary powers and rights in connection therewith, have 
been duly and validly
performed or given and that no other such acts, consents or approvals are required in 
order to authorize the carrying out of the Project and the Transfer and to enable the 
Borrower, the State and CBTU to perform all of the respectivecovenants, agreements and 
obligations of the Borrower, the State and CBTU contained in the Loan Agreement, the 
Convenio Basico, the Shareholder's Agreement and the Project Agreement.
Section 6.03.  The date July 3, 1996 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "P" - 8o andar
70048-900 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
61-1506 MFAZ BR
Page  8
with copies to:
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Ministerio do Planejamento e Orcamento
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "K" - 5o andar
70040-906 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
61-1146
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the city of
Washington, D.C., as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Paulo Tarso Flecha de Lima
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                  Amount of the
                                 Loan Allocated             % of
                                  (Expressed in          Expenditures
                                      Dollar                to be
    Category                       Equivalent)             Financed
Page  9
(1) (a)  Works (other than
         those in (b) below)
         and installation of
         systems:                                     60%
         (i) under Part A.1(b),
             (l), (e) (iii) and
             (m) (ii)
             of the Project         9,800,000
       (ii)  under Part A.1 (a)
             (ii), (c), (e) (i),
             (k), and (m) (iii)
             of the Project        41,400,000
      (iii)  under Part A.1 (a)
             (i), (d), (e) (ii),
             (j), (m) (i),
             and (n) of the Project 3,800,000
    (b) Works for construction
        of permanent way and
        overhaul of rolling stock:                   75%
        (i) under Part A.1(f) of
            the Project            1,900,000
       (ii) under Part A.1(g) and
            (h) of the Project     7,200,000
      (iii) under Part A.1(i) and
            (o) (other than
            locomotives) of the
            Project               14,900,000
(2) Goods                          1,500,000         75% of foreign
                                                     expenditures, 75%
                                                     of local expenditures
                                                     (ex-factory cost)
                                                     and 60% of local
                                                     expenditures for
                                                     other items procured
                                                     locally
(3) Consultants' services
    and training                   5,000,000         50% of local
                                                     expenditures for
                                                     services of
                                                     consultants domiciled
                                                     within the territory
                                                     and 100% of foreign
                                                     expenditures for
                                                     services of other
                                                     consultants
(4) Unallocated                  16,500,000
                                ___________
          TOTAL                 102,000,000
                                ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
Page  10
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "training" includes travel expenses (tickets and per diem), 
registration fees, and related materials.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made:
(a)
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,000,000, may be made on account 
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after March 30,1995 or a date 
which is 12 months before the date of this Agreement, whichever is later;
(b)
for expenditures under Category (1) (a) (i) and (b) (i) of the table set 
forth in paragraph 1 hereof, unless the TIP-Timbi Environmental Impact Assessment has 
been approved by the State, and a license for the carrying out of the works covered by 
such Assessment has been granted to CBTU by the State and the competent municipal 
authorities; and
(c)
for expenditures under Category (1) (a) (i) and (b) (ii) of the table set 
forth in paragraph 1 hereof, unless the South Line Environmental Impact Assessment has 
been approved by the State, and a license for the carrying out of works covered by 
such Assessment has been granted to CBTU by the State.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods, works and 
consultants' services costing less than the equivalent of $350,000 in the case of 
goods, $5,000,000 in the case of works, $100,000 in the case of consulting firms' 
services and $50,000 in the case of individual consultants' services, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to develop an integrated urban transport 
system for the RMR under EMTU's coordination, including the adoption of common 
policies on urban transport pricing, regulation, financing, project evaluation and 
selection; (b) to complete the decentralization of the STU-REC System from the 
Borrower's to the State's level; (c) to reduce the adverse environmental impacts on 
the RMR caused by motor vehicles and to promote the use of non-
motorized transport modes; and (d) to improve the accessibility of the poor to 
employment centers and health and education facilities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
1.
Improvement of STU-REC's infrastructure and equipment, through:
 
(a)
construction of: (i) three integrated bus-to-rail terminals in the 
Central Line; and (ii) seven integrated bus-to-rail terminals and improvement of road 
accesses to stations in the South Line;
(b)
construction of a station at Timbi on the Central Line;
 
(c)
construction of ten stations and modernization of two existing stations 
on the Recife-Cajueiro Seco section of the South Line;
(d)
minor rehabilitation of five stations on the Cajueiro Seco-Cabo section 
of the South Line;
(e)
construction of: (i) ten bridges, two road viaducts and eight pedestrian 
over/underpasses on the Recife-Cajueiro Seco section of the South Line; (ii) two 
Page  11
bridges and one road viaduct on the Cajueiro Seco-Cabo section of the South Line; and 
(iii) four bridges, one road viaduct and two overpasses on the TIP-TIMBI section;
(f)
construction of about 4.5 kilometers of a double electrified track 
extension from the TIP to the Timbi station;
(g)
construction of about 13.5 kilometers of double electrified track, from 
Recife to Cajueiro Seco;
(h)
relocation of about 11 kilometers of one of the existing tracks from 
Afogados to Cajueiro Seco;
(i)
construction of about 11 kilometers of a second track from Pontezinha to 
Cabo;
(j)
improvement of the electric system of the Central Line, including 
installation of circuit breakers and about 4.5 kilometers of electricity transmission 
lines and overhead catenary, and relocation of feeder power lines at the Cavaleiro 
yard;
(k)
improvement of the electric system  of the South Line, including 
installation of about 14.5 kilometers of overhead catenary and about 13.5 kilometers 
of electricity transmission lines, and construction of two power substations and two 
sectionalizing cabins;
(l)
installation of a signalling system on the TIP-Timbi track extension 
referred to in (f) above, with the same characteristics of the system operating in the 
Central Line;
(m)
installation of (i) a telephone exchange system for the entire network; 
(ii) a telecommunications system on the TIP-Timbi extension referred to in (f) above; 
and (iii) about 13.5 kilometers of fiber optic cables and VHF radio network, a public 
address system, ticketing control, clock and track telephone subsystems, and a radio 
communication sub-system in five stations in the Cajueiro-Cabo section of the South 
Line; 
(n)
construction of an additional facility in the Cavaleiro workshop for 
major overhauls of the EMU's fleet, and of a small maintenance shed for the 
maintenance of diesel locomotives in the Cajueiro Seco station, and acquisition of 
miscellaneous equipment and spare parts for the rolling stock, and of maintenance 
equipment for the track and the catenary; and
(o)
general overhaul of about 25 EMUs and about 11 locomotives, 
rehabilitation and/or modernization of two diesel locomotives, installation of air 
conditioning systems in the EMU's fleet, rehabilitation of about 21 passenger coaches, 
and acquisition of spare parts for the entire fleet.
Part B:
1.
Design of an inspection and maintenance program for vehicle emissions and noise 
in the RMR.
2.
Preparation of a comprehensive program for traffic management and safety in the 
RMR, including an action plan for its implementation.
Part C:
1.
Studies and action plans aimed at supporting the Transfer, including preparation 
of the institutional and organizational arrangements required therefor, valuation of 
assets to be transferred, transfer of personnel (including retirement and other 
benefits), and other legal and administrative aspects of the Transfer.
2.
(a)
Studies and action plans to improve the management of the STU-REC System, 
including a manpower development plan to streamline the management and operational 
staff and to propose concise job descriptions, a study on cost accounting, management 
information systems and financial management, a plan to improve inventory management, 
a plan to subcontract maintenance and other operations to the private sector, a plan 
Page  12
to increase non-operating revenues through the renting of
station space, advertising and utilization of real estate.
(b)
Technical assistance and training to the STU-REC System's and PE Entity's 
staff as recommended by the manpower development plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Part C.2.
3.
Studies and action plans to support the policy framework for implementing the 
transport modal integration in RMR, including: (a) a study on mechanisms for financing 
the urban transport sector and on multi-modal tariff integration and its 
operationalization; (b) an updating of the transport, land use and air quality portion 
of the RMR's master plans with emphasis on route rationalization and modal transport 
tariff integration; and (c) a study on changes required to EMTU's organization 
structure.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning March 15, 2001
through September 15, 2010
5,100,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Page  13
Time of Prepayment 
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable 
to the Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $6,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$3,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $20,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
Page  14
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special 
q
Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
Page  15
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
