Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11526
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND KORBA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
(CREDIT 1172-IN)
JANUARY 11, 1993
Energy Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Country Exchange Rates
(Yearly Averages)
Currency and (Abbreviation)                        Rupee (Rs)
Year                                               Rupees/US$
1978 (Project Preappraisal Starts)                    8.19
1980 (Project Appraisal)                              7.86
1981 (Project Approved and Becomes Effective)         8.66
1982                                                  9.46
1983                                                 10.10
1984                                                 11.36
1985                                                 12.37
1986                                                 12.61
1987                                                 12.96
1988                                                 13.92
1989                                                 16.23
1990                                                 17.50
1991                                                 22.74
1992 (Project Completed)                             26.20
Government of India Fiscal Year
(April 1 - March 31)
Abbreviations
CEA      Central Electricity Authority
cr.      crores (ten million Indian Rupees)
CHP      Coal Handling Plant
CMD      Chairman and Managing Director
EAP      Environmental Action Plan
GOI      Government of India
IERR     Internal Economic Rate of Return
KfW      Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
NHPC     National Hydro Power Corporation
NPTC     National Power Transmission Corporation
NTPC     National Thermal Power Corporation
PCR      Project Completion Report
PFC      Power Finance Corporation
PMI      Power Management Institute
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
SEB      State Electricity Board



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.k
Office of the Director-General
Operationa Evaluation
January 11, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on India
Second Korba Thermal Power Proiect (Credit 1172-IN)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on
India - Second Korba Thermal Power Project (Credit 1172-IN)", prepared by the
South Asia Regional Office with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
The three 500 MW coal fired thermal units with associated transmission
facilities were commissioned some four months later than planned at appraisal and
at a cost some 15Z higher in real terms than estimated. With the completion of
this project, the Korba power plant achieved its full planned capacity of
2100 MW.  After strengthening the coal handling system to take into account
higher abrasiveness and lower average heat content of the coal than expected, the
plant was able to generate at full rated capacity.
In the course of project implementation, NTPC became a strong
institution able to plan, design, construct, and operate efficiently large
thermal plants and transmission systems. All in all, the project outcome is
rated  as  satisfactory  and  its  sustainability  as  likely.    Institutional
development is rated as partial given the limited progress achieved in tackling
sector issues at the state level.
The Project Completion Report provides an accurate and informative
account of project implementation. OED recently audited four of the projects in
the sector. It plans to audit the present project together with other completed
NTPC operations.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND KORBA THERHAL POWER PROJECT
(CREDIT 1172-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pt No.
PREFACE ...........................................................                I
EVALUATION   SUMMARY ....o .o..*................................ l
PART Is    PROJECT REVIEW  CRON BANK's PERSPECTIVE....                              1
Project Identityo ....-.-. . -.  1........... .....                    I
Bac         kgroundoeot ...1.o.. o. .. 
Project Objectives         ..  .o  . .    .- . .-.  ....   ..          1
Project Description...... i......  ..n......  .......-....-            2
Project Design and Organization.. .......                              3
Project Implementation. ...... . .................                     4
Environment, Resettlement and Rehabilitation*...*..**..                6
Project Results .....aua...8.................4.....#6..                S
Project Suatainability. ..................... . .* . . .. .           10
IDA Performance. ..........................  ...                      10
Borrower Performance .......nce................                       11
Financial Aspcs ................                                      11
Project Relationship-.............          .........      ......     12
Consulting Services-        r      v     l      c     -a..................  13
Procurement*.*.....................                                   13
Project Documentation and Data........-                               13
PART II:   PROJECT REVIEW IRON BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE .............                14
PART III:  STATISTICAL SUMMARY ................................................. .    20
ANNEXES
1    Ex-post Internal Economic Rate of Returnt...                          32
2    Income Statments. ................  ..... ....                         33
3    Sources and Applications of Funds...........u                          34
4    Balance Shot.........et..00..                                          35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND KORBA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
(CREDIT 1127-IN)
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Korba
Thermal Power Project in India, for which Credit 1172-IN in the amount of SDR
325.6 million (equivalent to US$400.0 million) was approved on July 7, 1981.
On December 5, 1991, the Association cancelled SDR 9.2 million, which were no
longer needed for the completion of the project. Thus, the credit amount was
reduced to SDR 316.4 million. The credit was closed on December 31, 1991,
against the original schedule of December 31, 1989. Total disbursement under
this credit was SDR 314,571,172.50. The undisbursed balance of SDR
1,828,827.50 was cancelled on May 19, 1992, when the final disbursement under
the Credit was made. Cofinancing in the amount of DM 190 million was provided
by Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) of Germany.
The PCR (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) was jointly
prepared by the Energy Operations Divisions, Country Department II (India) of
South Asia Regional Office and the Energy Division, Technical Department of
Asia Region, and Part II by the Borrower.
Preparation of this PCR was started jointly by the Association and
the Borrower during the Association's Supervision mission in February 1992,
based on the revised guidelines for PCRs and is based, inter alia, on the
Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3397a-IN), the Credit and Project Agreements,
supervision reports, correspondence between IDA and the Borrower and internal
IDA memoranda.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND KORBA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
(CREDIT 1172-IN)
Evaluation Summarv
Obiective
The two main objectives of the project were: (l) to provide the
National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) assistance to construct three 500 NW
coal fired thermal power generating units as the second stage of NTPC's Korb&
Thermal Power Project to mitigate power shortages in the Western Region
Interconnected system of Inldia and (ii) to assist Government of India (COI)
in achieving its objective of further advancing the regional and national
integration of the power subsector (Part I, para. 2).
Implementation Ex2erience
NTPC successfully implemented the project. The first 500 NW unit
(Unit No. 4) was comissioned three months ahead of the schedule revised
following the award of the contract for the main package in August 1982, and
the subsequent two 500 MW units (Units No. 5 and 6) five and six months ahead
of this schedule. However, the award of the main package vas delayed because
evaluation by NTPC took longer than anticipated (Part I, para. 13).
Results
The project fully achieved its main objectives through successful
completion of three 500 MW units in the second stage of Korba station and
associated 400 kV transmission lines. Following this completion, and together
with the three 200 NW units built in the first stage, the Korb& Super Theral
Power Station became the second (Singrauli being the first) of the 2,000/2,100
MW class coal fired thermal power stations of NTPC, and at the same time, the
largest power station in the country (Part I, para-. 16 and 22).
The results of the sectoral objectives sought under the project,
i.e., long-range planning on a national basis, improvement of sector
organization and strengthening of the finances of the institutions involved in
the sector, have not been satisfactory (Part I, para. 23).
NTPC's financial rate of return on historically valued net fixed
assets declined from a high 171 in FY86 and FY87 to 131 in FY91 against the
covenanted rate of return of 9 52  The internal economic rate of return
(IERR) of the project was about 252 against the estimated figure of about 152.
Higher IERR is due to the retail tariffs in the Western Region being
relatively higher than those estimated at appraisal (Part I, paras. 27, and
34).



- ii -
Sustainability
Operational efficiency of NTPC in this power station as well as in
other NTPC plants is good and thus contributes to keeping up benefits from the
projects NTPC carries out (Part I, para. 28).
Insufficient tariffs and an unchecked increase of accounts
receivable could endanger such sustainability. The Bank Group, GOI and NTPC
have been taking actions to avoid such an occurrence (Part I, para. 29).
Findings and Lessons Learned
Major findings were as follows:
(a) Design and engineering work for the project were successfully
carried out in-house by NTPC, based on its experience with earlier
projects, with very limited support from outside (Part I, para. 7);
(b) NTPC took about one year from opening of bids to finalization of the
award for the steam generator package which was on the critical path
for implementation; evaluation of the bids by itself took seven
months; the Association gave its no-objection in one month; and,
compilation by NTPC of data requested by the Association and
finalization of the letter of award required another four months --
a period which should have been curtailed by at least three months
(Part I, para. 13);
(c) Once the main package was awarded, NTPC executed the project
competently, with an effective project and construction management
system, in advance of the revised program, by effectively building
on their past experience and expertise in 200 MW and 500 MW coal
fired power units. This enabled NTPC to set up successfully the
largest coal fired power plant in the Country having a total
capacity of 2,100 MW including three 500 MW units (Part I, para.
13);
(d) Completion of the project and final payments required the extension
of the closing date of the Credit by 24 months (Part I, para. 13);
(e) The Association's and GOI's performance in realizing the sectoral
objectives sought under the project were not fully satisfactory.
The Association expected that increasing the role of the GOI-owned
entities, particularly building up NTPC and emphasizing centralized
power planning would lead to more SEB reform. The Bank's support
helped NTPC to become India's model utility and, in the process,
also helped to improve operational efficiency nationwide. However,
the relative autonomy of the States under India's federal structure,
limits what can be achieved through involvement exclusively with
central agencies (Part I, para. 23); and,



- iii -
(f) Despite the fact that NTPC's (cost plus) tariffs are set at levels
aimed at ensuring a satisfactory financial viability, the current
policy environment in the power sector prevent NTPC from operating
on a purely commercial basis and this has reduced its ability to
continue implementing its investment program (Part I, paras. 34-36).
Major lessons learned from this project are summarized below:
(a) Due to the reasons of poor quality of coal with high abrasive nature
and a calorific value lower than the one used for the design, the
capacity of the Coal Handling Plant (CHP) had to be augmented during
implementation of the project. The lesson taken from this was that
NTPC designed larger CHP facilities in subsequent projects (Part I,
para. 14);
(b) Socio-economic issues are being assigned higher priority in
preparation/appraisal as well as implementation stages. NTPC should
actively pursue consultations with the people affected by its
Projects; however NTPC should not limit its involvement in
environmental and socio-economic issues to the impact of its power
stations, but should act as a catalyst in environmental and
rehabilitation and resettlement mitigation measures and monitoring
programs for the mines and associated urban and rural development as
well (Part I, paras. 19 and 21);
(c) In accordance with the emphasis the Association requires from its
Borrowers and the implementing agencies, NTPC should also strengthen
its environmental assessment and monitoring functions in its
headquarters, regional centers and power plants. The central
department in charge of these functions should be headed by an
Executive Director (Part I, para. 21);
(d) Emphasis should be given during the preparation stage on shortening
the time necessary for award of the contract on the critical path
and for completing the payments promptly (Part I, para. 39);
(e) As a precondition for further Bank loans, more emphasis is being
given to improving the commercial arrangements between NTPC and its
clients. However, this has proved to be difficult to achieve in
practice unless the financial performance of the SEBs is improved
(Part I, para. 35);
(f) To overcome the difficulties mentioned in (e) above, and to enable
NTPC to operate on a purely commercial basis, GOI should allow NTPC
to sell to other customers the allocated shares of the SEBs which do
not comply with their agreements with NTPC. While technical
reallocation (by limiting availability of power to a particular SEB)
may be difficult to implement, commercial reallocation can be
implemented. This can be done by limiting allocations to a
defaulting SEB and charging a stiff penalty for drawals exceeding
the reduced allocation (Part I, para. 35); and



- iv -
(g) As a result of the changes in the overall economic policy
environment within which NTPC is operating, its financial policies
need reorientation. Under the circumstances, it would be appropriate
to change the existing rate of return covenant into a self financing
covenant, because it would not only provide a better monitoring
mechanism for the Association, but also provide better support to
NTPC towards meeting its development challenges (Part I, paras. 34
and 36).



- 1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND KORBA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
(CREDIT 1172-IN)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Prolect Identity
Name                  s  Second Korba Thermal Power Project
Credit Number             1172-IN
RVP Unit                  South Asia Region
Country                   India
Sector                    Energy
Subsector                 Power
Background
1.        Power shortages of the 1970s and the adverse effect these vere
having on the productive sectors of the economy prompted the Government of
India (GOI) to intensify its efforts to balance the demand and supply of
electricity. The strategy of the GOI was to supplement efforts of State
Electricity Boards (SEBs) in increasing installed capacity and the
establishment of high voltage transmission lines. Emphasis was put on:
(a) accelerating the development of the hydropower potential and large coal
fired power plants at both pithead locations and in the proximity of load
centers; (b) improving the efficiency of thermal power plants and reducing
losses in the transmission and distribution networks; (c) expanding the rural
electrification program; and (d) strengthening the organizational and
management capabilities of the SEBs. In 1974 GOI decided to proceed with the
construction of the first stage of four large thermal power stations of 600 MW
each at Singrauli, Korba, Ramagundam and Farakka, located near coal fields and
supplying bulk power to the beneficiaries through interconnected 400 kV
transmission systems. GOI established in 1975 two power generating companies,
the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) and the National Hydro Power
Corporation (NHPC) to construct and operate large thermal and hydro power
stations and associated transmission systems. IDA/Bank financed the first
stage of 600 MW at each plant and its associated transmission. In addition,
IDA/Bank also financed the second stage of Singrauli (1,400 MW), Korba (1,500
MW), Ramagundam (1,500 MW) and Farakka (1,000 MW). The feasibility study of
the second stage of the Korba project was prepared by NTPC in 1980 and the
project appraisal was made by the Association in 1981. The credit was
approved in July 1981. The agreements were signed in February 1982 and the
Credit was declared effective on May 5, 1982.
Prolect Obiectives
2.        The primary objective of the project was to provide NTPC with
assistance needed to assume its envisaged role, including the mitigation of
power shortages in the Western Power Region of India. Sectoral objectives of
the project were Bank Group's assistance to GOI in the power sector in such
areas as introduction of long-range system planning on a national basis,
improvement of the sector organization and training and strengthening of the
finances of the institutions involved in the sector.



-2-
Project Description
3.        The Second Korba Thermal Power Project (Credit 1172-IN) formed part
of NTPC's second stage thermal power development located on the right bank of
the Hasdeo River in the Bilaspur District of Madhya Pradesh, just downstream
of an existing barrage at Darri and consists of the installation of three 500
MW mine-mouth thermal power generating units and associated facilities,
including the following components:
(a) Three 1,725 tons/hour boilers and three 500 MW turbo-generating
units complete with all auxiliaries and ancillary electrical and
mechanical equipment including switchyard; and
(b) 400 kV Alternating Current (AC) Transmission System consisting of
about 2,100 circuit kms of lines (as compared to about 1,100 circuit
kms of lines envisaged in SAR) 1/ and associated electrical and
mechanical equipment including switchyard.
4.        In US dollar terms, the total actual cost was US$961.3 million, of
which US$388.7 million equivalent was provided by IDA under Credit 1172-IN,
US$93.6 million equivalent by KfW and US$479.0 million equivalent from
domestic sources.
1/   400 kV transmission lines consist of the following circuits:
(Circuit kms)
Koradi-Satpura          149           (170)
Satpura-Indore          293           (230)      (Note:  Figures in
Indore-Asoj             288           (230)      parentheses represent
Korba-Bhilai II         192           (190)      the line length at the
Bhilai-Koradi           272           (262)      time of appraisal.
Korba-Bhilai III        211               *      *:  Subsequently added)
Bhilai-Chandrapur       686               *
Total             2,091         (1,082)
*The Bhilai-Koradi-II, single circuit line was envisaged to be terminated in
MSEB's 400 kV switchyard at Koradi Thermal Power Station; however, owing to
space constraints at Koradi switchyard, it was subsequently envisaged that
this line should be terminated at Chandrapur instead of Koradi. In this
connection, the studies carried out by Central Electricity Authority (CEA) to
review the transmission system associated with super thermal power stations
also established that in respect of Korba, the prescribed reliability criteria
could be met by providing a 400 kV AC double circuit line in the Bhilai-
Chandrapur section, due to increased power flow over the transmission system
beyond Bhilai because of less power off-take than anticipated at Bhilai
substation (on account of lower growth of load demand at Bhilai) and the
installation of captive power plant at Bhilai Steel Plant. In view of the
various considerations, as above, it was decided that a double circuit line
from Bhilai to Chandrapur with associated substation at Chandrapur, would be
constructed instead of Bhilai-Koradi-II single circuit line.



5.        The three 500 MW turbo-generators and high pressure piping
manufactured in Germany were financed by KfW. The balance of the plant and
transmission system was financed by the Association and from domestic sources.
6.        Since August 1991, the transmission facilities implemented under the
project are being managed by the National Power Transmission Corporation
(NPTC) under a Power of Attorney in their favor issued by NTPC. NPTC, a GOI-
owned entity responsible for the implementation and operation and maintenance
of the transmission systems was incorporated in October 1989. Between
September 1991 and March 1992, the Bank communicated with GOI on the
modalities of the transfer of assets from NTPC to NPTC, assessed the
management and operational capabilities of NPTC and with its telex of April 2,
1992, informed GOI, NTPC and NPTC that it agreed in principle to such
transfer. However, at the time of preparation of this PCR, NTPC was still the
legal implementing agency of the project.
Project Design and Organization
7.        As in the case of the first stage, the expansion phase of the Korba
Development comprised a number of major works and required careful
coordination to ensure efficient progress. NTPC had already acquired adequate
experience in the area of station design and engineering of 200 MW units at
Singrauli, Korba, Ramagundam and Farakka and was in the process of installing
two units of 500 MW capacity at Singrauli for which a foreign consultant was
employed to assist in the design, preparation of specification, evaluation of
bids etc. Therefore, appointment of a consultant for doing such works was not
necessary and pre-award engineering works such as basic engineering,
preparation of specification and bidding documents, evaluation of bids, etc.
were done in-house by NTPC. A foreign consultant (a UK firm) was employed to
review the basic design prepared by NTPC. A local consultant was engaged to
assist the NTPC staff for detailed design and engineering.
B.        Under the first Korba project, GOI agreed to take necessary steps to
make available adequate coal supplies for the 2,100 MW power plant. Quantity-
wise coal supply has so far been adequate and has not hindered the operation
of all units. However, quality-wise it was not up to the design values (para.
14).
9.        At the time of appraisal for the first stage, NTPC had adopted a
two-tier organizational structure--one at the central/corporate level and the
other at the project sites. Technical services, contract and procurement
services and quality assurance, etc. were centralized. For each of four power
plants, a project organization group under the control of a General Manager
was organized to manage the implementation of the particular project.
10.       NTPC was reorganized, subsequently, after the appraisal of the first
stage to have a three tier organizational structure: corporate, regional and
project levels, respectively.
11.       NTPC's Board of Directors, which consists of twelve members, is
responsible for establishing internal policies. The Corporation is headed by
a Chairman and Managing Director (CMD), who is assisted by five full-time
functional Directors, namely, Director (Projects), Director (Operation),
Director (Technical), Director (Finance) and Director (Personnel). At the
Corporate Office, corporate planning, central procurement and vigilance
functions are headed by Executive Directors reporting to the CMD. For the



purpose of the administration and execution of work at the sites, the
Corporation is divided into five regions (North, West, East, South and
National Capital) with headquarters at present located at Allahabad, Nagpur,
Patna, Hyderabad and Delhi, respectively. These regions are under the control
of Regional Executive Directors who are responsible for the implementation and
operation and maintenance of power plants in their respective regions 2/.
Every power plant and regional transmission unit is headed by a General
Manager. The new structure has the advantage of optimizing the span of
control of the CMD and provides for decentralization of line responsibility
while retaining centralized systems in areas such as long-term planning, basic
engineering, procurement of critical equipment and spares, quality assurance,
coordination with the World Bank and other financing agencies, inspection,
etc.
12.       As NTPC's activities become complex and more geographically
dispersed, further adjustments in control will be required to maintain a high
level of operational efficiency. This will in turn require some reorientation
of technical and management skills as well as adjustments in the
organizational structure. NTPC appointed the Indian Institute of Management,
Ahmedabad, to carry out a detailed diagnostic study covering the relevance of
current operational management policies along with a review of organization
structure. The consultants' recommendations in respect of diversification,
centralization, organizational structure and human resource development, are
presently being evaluated for phased implementation. NTPC has also carried
out an internal assessment of the need for centralization/decentralization in
the day-to-day functioning of the Corporation. This has been partly
implemented with reinforcement of the regional headquarters with commercial
and operational services. The project engineering and procurement groups at
headquarters have also been aligned for executing regional projects. The
Corporation underwent an organization change in August l991 when the
management of transmission lines and associated enginesring and contracts work
was entrusted to the National Power Transmission Corporation (NPTC -- para.
6). NTPC has now updated its corporate plan for the upcoming 15 years. The
corporate plan has identified several key thrust areas, viz. equipment
procurement, coal and gas supplies, operations and maintenance, commercial,
financing, environment and rehabilitation, research and development,
technology, human resources development, organization development and
diversification. The corporate plan also focusses on the major constraints
that may hamper the long-term viability of the Corporation highlighting
external and internal financing resource constraints, lack of commercial
discipline in the sector, project approval procedures and lack of clarity in
the enforcement of environmental protection regulations. NTPC states that
some remedial measures have been suggested for the attention of policy making
bodies in the sector.
Prolect Implementation
13.       The implementation of the project consisting of three 500 MW units
and the associated 400 kV transmission lines has been successfully completed.
The schedule set for commissioning of 500 MW units was five years from the
date of main plant award (the zero date) for the first 500 MW unit followed by
subsequent 500 MW units at intervals of one year each. At the time of
2/   Until August 1991, the Regional Executive Directors were also responsible
for the transmission facilities in their regions (para. 6).



- 5 -
appraisal, the estimated commissioning dates were August 1986, August 1987 and
August 1988, respectively, based on main plant award date (zero date) of
October 1981. It took twelve months from the date of receipt of the offers to
the date of the award for the steam generators package, which was on the
implementation critical path 3/. Thus the zero date was revised as August
1982. Once the main package was awarded, NTPC executed the project
competently, with an effective project and construction management system.
Therefore, based on the zero date of August 1982, the commissioning schedules
for three units were set up as August 1987, August 1988 and August 1989,
respectively. As against this, the first 500 MW unit (Unit No. 4) was
commissioned in May 1987, three months ahead of the revised schedule and the
subsequent units (No. 5 and 6) in March 1988 and February 1989, which were
five and six months ahead of the revised schedule, respectively.   However
completion of the coal handling plant (CHP; para. 14) and final payments for
many contracts required the extension of the closing date of the Credit by 24
months.
14.       Due to the poor quality of coal with high abrasiveness and a
calorific value lower than the one used in the design, the coal handling plant
had to be enlarged during the implementation of the project. Thus the CHP was
augmented by installing a track hopper crusher house and associated conveyors
which currently allow for the operation of the power station at full capacity,
when one of the CHP streams is out of service for maintenance. This
augmentation was implemented under the Credit. The experience learned was
incorporated by NTPC to design larger CHP facilities in the second stage of
the Ramagundam project (3 x 500 MW) and other subsequent projects.
15.       During the initial running and the performance tests, some initial
defects were observed and have been rectified 4/ and all units were put
into commercial operation on the dates shown in Part III 5/. Through its
experience of manufacturing the equipment for the Korba project which followed
Singrauli, the indigenous manufacturer has accumulated a reliable capability
for the design and supply of 500 MW units.
16.       Following the completion of its second stage and together with the
three 200 MW units built in the first stage, the Korba Super Thermal Power
3/   Twelve months consisted of bid evaluation (seven months), clearance of
the evaluation by the Association (one month) and finalization of the
letter of award (four months). The last period also included compilation
by NTPC of additional details requested by the Association regarding the
Joint Deed of undertaking furnished by the collaborator of the
recommended bidder, and also on the capacity and the capability of the
recommended bidder.
4/   Rectification was made to the forced draft fans (blades failing) for No.
4 unit and minor troubles in the boilers.
5/   Intervals between the synchronization and the date of the commercial
operation for three units were ten (10), thirteen (13), and sixteen (16)
months, respectively. These delays were mainly due to evacuation
problems (high frequency in the system resulted from imbalance between
the power generation and transmission systems) and initial defects in
equipment and their rectification.



- 6 -
Station became the second (Singrauli being the first) of the 2,000/2,100 MW
class coal fired thermal power stations of NTPC and at the same time, the
largest power station in the country.
Environment, Resettlement and Rehabilitation
17.       At the time of design and implementation of the project, norms for
environment protection and requirements of resettlement and rehabilitation
plans were not fully developed. Following the phenomena encountered at the
Singrauli area, NTPC had realized that while a large thermal power project
like Korba would lead to faster economic development of the surrounding
communities, it could also have a negative impact on the balance of ecological
systems if sufficient mitigatory measures were not taken. Therefore NTPC
designed the project to comply with the then established environmental
standards. However, a detailed Environmental Impact Assessment was not
prepared as this was not required at the time of appraisal, which was carried
out in early 1981.
18.       The association of extensive coal reserves and a large water
reservoir, created in the Korba area for the purpose of power generation and
irrigation, has favored the implementation of several thermal power stations
as well as other industries (i.e., aluminum smelting and chemical plant) and
development of coal mines. NTPC in its project has taken the necessary
measures for environmental protection, commensurate with the requirements at
the time of setting up of the project. However, environmental and
rehabilitation issues outside the power plant project (i.e., of the coal mine,
power plants built and operated by the Madhya Pradesh State Electricity Board,
and many industries developed in the area) were not studied.
19.       The implementation of the project, including the first (600 MW) and
the second phases (1,500 MW) required the acquisition of 3,599.4 acres of land
affecting 1,057 families, out of which 560 families were actually displaced.
308 Project Affected People (PAP) were provided with direct employment and 500
were provided employment through contractors. In addition, NTPC has also
assisted the displaced families by allocating shops and by providing contract
licenses to them. NTPC has also provided civic amenities in the relocation
colonies. Immunization and health camps are being organized on a regular
basis. Rehabilitation colonies of the villages of Lata, Agarkhar Kohadia and
Jamnipali have been provided with approach and internal roads, three schools
have been constructed/extended. Smokeless Chullhas (cooking apparatus) were
provided to the villagers, and two wells and five hand pumps have been
installed for drinking water purpose in these villages. A community center
has been constructed in the villages so that the local population can take
part in community activities such as rural sports tournaments, cultural
activities etc. NTPC townships are generally self-contained and two or three
shopping complexes are constructed in each township. In general, preference
is given to the PAP in allotment of shops. No records exist at the Bank to
show that consultations with the PAP were carried out. NTPC should actively
pursue consultations with the people affected by its Projects; however NTPC
should not limit its involvement in environmental and socio-economic issues to
the impact of its power stations, but should act as a catalyst in
environmental and rehabilitation and resettlement mitigation measures and
monitoring programs for the mines and associated urban and rural development
as well.



- 7 -
20.       NTPC has also taken appropriate measures with regard to stack
emissions and water effluents. Electrostatic precipitators with efficiency of
over 99.5Z have been installed with 500 MW units so as to minimize particulate
emissions. The units are provided with stack having a height of over 220
meters thus enabling disposal of particulate matter over a larger radius.
Various parameters like air quality (SO2, NO  and suspended particulate matter
-- SPM), noise and water quality are continuously monitored to ensure that
they comply with environmental quality standards. In addition, through a
continuous afforestation program approximately one million trees of various
species have been planted and this would be expanded in the future, in order
to reclaim the ash pond area. Plantation of Terminalia arjuna in the ash pond
has shown encouraging results to culture tassar silk worm in the ash disposal
area. The area, consisting of two lagoons separated by a dyke, was originally
designed for the 200 MW units built during the first stage. If no new
disposal area is developed, lagoon I will have been completely filled by mid-
1996 6/. The first site selected by NTPC for a new ash disposal area was
not approved by local authorities as it was going to take land from
agriculture. NTPC has now obtained clearances for a new site with a storage
volume of 45 million m3, 12 km north of the power station. The site is 500
meter to the west of the Hasdeo river and lies 40 to 50 meter higher than the
power station. Therefore the erection of a booster pump house is required
7/.With the construction of the new ash pond, NTPC will be able to operate
all the units up to their economic lives; i.e., 30 years. The Bank, KfW and
NTPC are currently coordinating their respective actions to enable NTPC to
complete the new area by mid-1996. The difficulties in finding suitable areas
for ash disposal in this project and also in other projects like Singrauli
highlight the need for India to utilize the ash and/or to develop on the
national level technologies in mining and ash handling which allow backfilling
of ash to the mines.
21.       As a result of problems encountered and experience gained in the
first Bank-financed Singrauli, Korba, Ramagundam and Farakka 200 MW stages,
the Bank encouraged NTPC to become more aware of the particular complexities
associated with environmental and especially with resettlement issues. The
environmental consciousness of NTPC has since been increasing very fast and in
the recent projects--e.g. the Talcher Thermal Power Project (Loan 2845-IN)--
the approach to environmental protection and rehabilitation has been more
comprehensive right from the beginning. In the Talcher project a detailed
environmental impact assessment was prepared prior to beginning the
construction work. NTPC recruited staff specialized in social and
environmental science and undertook a review of the environmental aspects at
the four Bank financed power stations namely Singrauli, Korba, Ramagundam and
Farakka, in order to implement corrective measures to adequately rehabilitate
and preserve the physical and social environment in those areas affected by
these projects. To achieve this, NTPC prepared in 1989, under the then
proposed Regional Power Systems project, an Environmental Action Plan (EAP).
Aspects related to the Korba project addressed in the EAP are: (a) provision
of facilities at Kohadia; (b) shifting persons from Carpara to Kohadia; (c)
ash pipeline monitoring; and (d) ash dike plantation. The progress of the EAP
6/   Based on the data obtained during the preparation of this PCR.  See
paragraph 16 of Part II.
7/   Because it has to avoid protected and inhabitated areas, the pipeline
route will be 16 km.



- 8-
has been satisfactory. Many activities identified are continuous in nature
and are being monitored regularly. However NTPC's environmental unit is
understaffed. In accordance with the emphasis the Bank requires from its
Borrowers and the implementing agencies, NTPC should also strengthen its
environmental assessment and monitoring functions in its headquarters,
regional centers and power plants. The central department in charge of these
functions should be headed by an Executive Director. A program for
strengthening and upgrading NTPC's environmental department (including
technical assistance) and mitigatory actions to be taken by NTPC under the EAP
to correct outstanding problems in respect to environmental conditions and
regulations and resettlement, will be followed up under the proposed NTPC-
Power Generation Project.
Project Results
22.       The project fully achieved its main objective of meeting growing
demand of the Western Region through successful completion of additional power
generation of 1,500 MW and associated 400 kV transmission lines. The
cumulative generation from the second Korba units, from the beginning of
commercial operation up to December 31, 1991 (the date at which the credit was
closed) was 23,979.2 GWh. The unit-wise details are given in Part III.
23.       On the other hand, the results of the sectoral objectives of the
Bank Group's assistance to GOI to introduce long-range system planning on a
national basis, improvement of sector organization and strengthening of the
finances of the institutions involved in the sector have not been
satisfactory. This is due to the relative autonomy of the states which limits
what can be achieved through involvement exclusively with central agencies.
Under India's federal structure, central assistance to the states as budgetary
allocations are set by an automatic allocation formula. Therefore, GOI has no
direct means to ensure that financial performance of the state utilities
improves. Thus the GOI-owned utilities have no option but to enforce
financial discipline through means, such as: (a) letters of credit set at the
level of its sales to each client; and/or (b) limiting the supply of power to
the level of payments received. However, the success has so far been limited.
GOI recently amended its strategy to support efficient public utilities by
channelling discretionary funds not subject to the automatic allocation
formula only to the performing sates. These funds essentially include
financing through the recently established Power Finance Corporation and funds
from external assistance 8/. These actions would increase GOI's impact on
the sector. However, much needs to be done to begin solving the structural
problems of the sector, such as the current allocation process 9/, the
planning process, the operational efficiency of the power system, the
institutional set up of the state utilities and financing needs of the power
sector. In addition, issues affecting energy conservation and socio-
environmental aspects of power development should be taken up.
8/   GOI's efforts to develop PFC into a viable and effective instrument for
promoting improvements in the power sector are supported by the Bank
(Loan 3436-IN; Power Utilities Efficiency Improvement Project approved in
January 1992), the Asian Development Bank (ADB) under a parallel
operation approved in March 1992, and by USAID under a related technical
assistance program for PFC's institutional development.
9/   Not only in the power sector but also in coal and natural gas.



- 9 -
24.       The estimated cost of the project at appraisal and actual
disbursements are given in Part III. Compared with the appraisal cost
estimate of Rs 11,097.70 million (excluding Interest During Construction --IDC
--, and Working Capital Margin -- WCM) actual costs amounted to Rs. 13,755.83
million representing 24? increase. Rs 871.13 million (7.9?) of the increase
was due to price escalation and Rs 1,787.00 million (16.1Z) to the change in
scope (para. 25). The price escalation was mostly due to the increase in
foreign exchange rate for the dollar which went up from Rs 8.0 per US$ at the
time of appraisal to around Rs 26.0 per US$ when the project was completed.
The average exchange rate for the period of disbursement from the IDA credit
was Rs 17.8 per US$, resulting in a depreciation of about 55Z in the value of
Indian Rupees to US dollars. The total project cost estimates expressed in
dollar value, however, amounted to US$1,387 million (excluding IDC and WCM) in
the appraisal and US$950.83 million actually, resulting in a decrease of 31?,
due to the above mentioned substantial depreciation of the rupee against the
dollar.
25.       The estimated disbursements at appraisal and actual disbursements
are given in Part III. The original closing date of the credit was December
31, 1989. The Credit was closed on December 31, 1991. This delay was due to
the changes in the project scope for transmission, need to expand CHP, initial
delays in procurement and to allow NTPC to have the minor deficiencies,
identified during the initial operation, corrected. Aforesaid decline in the
value of Indian rupee against US$ and SDR resulted in substantial savings
under the credit some of which were utilized for financing additional
facilities like CHP augmentation, wagons and procurement of conductors, cables
etc. with the Association's concurrence. In accordance with the Association's
practice, withdrawal applications against eligible expenditures incurred until
December 31, 1991, were accepted until April 30, 1992, and the final
disbursement was made on May 19, 1992. The undisbursed balance of SDR
1,828,827.50 was cancelled on this date. Keeping in view the financial
difficulties faced by GOI and NTPC at the end of 1991, the Bank agreed in
November 1991 to finance under the National Capital Power Project (Ln 2844-IN)
eligible expenditures made after December 31, 1991, for those ongoing
contracts under Credit 1172-IN. These expenditures are estimated at about SDR
3.1 million (US$4 million equivalent).
26.       The allocation of loan into various categories and actual
disbursement category-wise are shown in Part III. The original allocation was
revised in December 5, 1986 to reflect changes in financing for the erection
works. SDR 9.2 million which was no longer necessary for the completion of
the project was cancelled, as of December 5, 1991, from the original amount of
the credit of SDR 325.6 million.
27.       In the SAR, ex-ante internal economic rate of return (IERR) was
estimated at about 15 percent, based on measurable economic costs and benefits
associated with the 1,500 MW development. The ex-post IERR is about 25
percent as shown in Part III and Annex 1. Higher IERR is due to the retail
tariffs in the Western Region being relatively higher than those anticipated
at appraisal.



- 10 -
Project Sustainability
28.       This project is clearly sustainable due to the following reasons:
(1) the power station is being operated with a high plant load factor; (2) the
demand for its full output is going to exist since power is in short supply;
(3) the current tariff is high enough to recover capital and operating costs;
(4) the new two-part tariffs, which will be applied beginning mid-1992, will
reinforce incentives to operate the plant efficiently and with high
availability; and, (5) the SEBs in the Western Region pay their bills to NTPC.
29.       However given the sectoral problems, whether NTPC's contribution is
sustainable is an issue on which GOI, the Bank and NTPC are all working.
NTPC's projected high growth may not be sustainable in the medium to longer
term, due to external funding constraints as well as inadequate internal
resource mobilization, plus an unchecked increase in accounts receivable from
consumers in the Eastern and Northern Regions. Sustainability in terms of
meeting the financing requirements of overall sectoral capacity expansion (and
efficiency improvements) needed to close the demand/supply gap is highly
questionable, but that existing capacity of well designed, constructed and
operated plants (such as Korba) should continue to generate sustained economic
benefits expected from these power plants. Whether the marginal economic
value of power used in subsidized agricultural or domestic consumption exceeds
the LRMC and what share of this plant's output finds its way to these end-uses
is another question related with the deficiencies existing in the sector.
Bank Group Performance
30.       The performance of the Association from project preparation through
project completion was satisfactory. The Association maintained good
relations with the beneficiary throughout the execution of the project and
fostered an environment conducive to increased Bank Group involvement with
NTPC. To date, the Bank Group has assisted NTPC in implementing a total of 13
projects with a total assistance of about US$4 billion. Through these
operations the Bank Group has oeen strengthening the institutional and
financial viability of the corporation. It is important to highlight that,
during this initial decade of development, NTPC and the Bank Group developed a
close relationship, during which the Bank Group has endeavored to support NTPC
in each step of its development, in a manner that goes much beyond the
substantial financial assistance extended to its expansion plan. However, in
response to SEB's continued poor payment records on their bulk power
purchases, which were seriously straining NTPC's finances, the Bank has
refrained from further commitments to NTPC since mid-1987. Thus the then-
proposed Regional Power Systems Project, which was negotiated in December
1989, was not presented to the Board, as GOI and NTPC could not fulfill within
a reasonable period the associated conditions of Board presentation.
Following NTPC's takeover in January 1992, of the Unchahar Thermal Power
Station from the Government of Uttar Pradesh in compensation for arrears of
the UPSEB, NTPC's level of current receivables (excluding the amount still to
be paid by GOI through Central Appropriations in FY93 and FY94) at the end of
February 1992, was about 2 months of sales equivalent. Therefore it is now
substantially in compliance with the Bank's financial covenants under the
ongoing loans, and the Bank has recently begun preparation work on a new
operation with NTPC.



- 11 -
31.       The Bank Group has also continued addressing a number of
shortcomings of broader concern. The major items are:
(a)  During the preparation of the recent projects, a more comprehensive
and up-front approach towards environmental protection, resettlement
and rehabilitation issues has been adopted. In 1988, NTPC appointed
consultants to study the environmental impact in the Singrauli
Region created by the development of coal mines, building of power
plants (by NTPC and UPSEB), and other industrial projects,
resettlement of the people affected by these projects, and in-
migration of skilled workers and their families. The consultants'
findings and recommendations are being reviewed by all interested
authorities. NTPC prepared in 1989, within the then proposed
Regional Power Systems Project an Environmental Action Plan (EAP)
for the Korba, Ramagundam and Farakka power projects. The EAP and
follow-up of the recommendations for the Singrauli region will be
taken up within the newly proposed NTPC-Power Generation Project;
(b)   Implementation of an Action Plan to liquidate the accumulation of
arrears from SEBs;
(c)   Development of the Power Management Institute (PMI) to provide
specialized training in management and other aspects of the power
sector. (This is in progress in as a part of the Talcher Thermal
Power Project, Ln. 2845-IN); and
(d)   Preparation of Model Bidding Documents in order to curtail the
period needed to award contracts.
Borrower Performance
32.        The performance of NTPC was generally commendable and met most of
the expectations of the appraisal report. All the three 500 MW units were
completed ahead of the revised schedule under the well established control of
NTPC project management which successfully overcame numerous difficulties.
However, initial delays in finalizing the steam generator contract, which was
on the implementation critical path, could have been avoided by NTPC
completing its evaluation in shorter time (para. 13) and GOI granting its
clearance promptly.
33.        As a direct outcome of development of Korba and other subsequent
projects, NTPC has made good progress in building up its organization and
manpower resources. NTPC has accorded special importance to the training of
engineers, and operating staff as well as managerial staff. This success of
NTPC's second super thermal power project has been primarily as a result of
the implementation of a well planned training program with concentration on
pre-operational spheres of activity such as planning, design and construction.
Financial Aspects
34.        The most salient feature of NTCP's operations was the spectacular
growth the corporation experienced.   From FY85 to FY91, the value of average
net fixed assets increased by 38Z per annum, while electricity sales (GWh)
grew with an average of 301 per annum. The pace of NTPC's growth is however
declining. Total annual investments increased only by about 17? over the same
period and work-in-progress has remained stagnant since FY88. NTPC's return



- 12 -
on net average fixed assets in operation (historically valued) declined from a
high 17X in FY86 and FY87 to 132 in FY91. The returns achieved are well in
excess of the 9.5Z which was required under the loan as a target from FY89.
These levels of rate of return did not, however, translate into adequate
contributions from internal resources to NTPC's investment program (an average
of only about 12Z over the last 5 years). This can be partially explained by
NTPC's ambitious expansion program. During the last years, NTPC's rate of
return has somewhat declined, because new tariffs have been agreed upon only
recently but as they are not yet applied, 500 MW units are effectively billed
at 200 MW tariff rates. However, NTPC's level of accounts receivable,
throughout the period under review was well above the 2 months level
covenanted by the Bank under Ln. 2555-IN, in 1985. The unsatisfactory bill
collection performance has not only reduced NTPC's self-financing ratio and
tightened its liquidity but, more importantly, has prevented NTPC's
traditional lenders, such as the Bank, from extending new loans to finance
NTPC's investment program. It also highlights the shortcomings of the rate of
return covenant which does not differentiate between income accrued and income
actually received.
35.        Under the prevailing policy environment in the Indian power sector,
NTPC is prevented from operating on a purely commercial basis. Many of the
SEBs have not been respecting the commercial terms of the supply contracts,
bill collection in the current environment is largely beyond NTPC's control.
In order to function as a commercially oriented enterprise, it is essential
that NTPC be provided by GOI with the freedom to allocate the power from its
new investments based on demand and take into account the past commercial
performance of its beneficiaries and their ability to pay for the power
allocated to them. In case of non-compliance by any of NTPC's power station
beneficiaries with agreed commercial and financial terms of their power supply
agreements, NTPC should be allowed to sell its power to other utilities.
While technical reallocation (by limiting availability of power to a
particular SEB) may be difficult to implement, commercial reallocation can be
implemented. This can be done by limiting allocations to a defaulting SEB and
charging a stiff penalty for drawals exceeding the reduced allocation. Under
the proposed time-slice operation currently under preparation, agreements are
being sought from Government to allow NTPC to either cut-off or reallocate
power from non-paying customers.
36.        GOI has recently indicated that entities such as NTPC would no
longer be able to rely on GOI budgetary support, have to start paying out
dividends and have to raise their own funds in the capital markets. GOI has
realized that this requires a reorientation of NTPC's financial, as well as
commercial, policies and practices. The new policies would aim at a greater
reliance on funds generated from internal resources and NTPC's ability to
raise funds from domestic and international capital markets. The details are
currently being discussed in the context of the new operation with NTPC, but
it is anticipated that the existing rate of return covenant would be replaced
by a self financing ratio.
Project Relationship
37.        Good relationships were maintained by the Association with the
Borrower.



- 13 -
Consulting Services
38.        The basic design and engineering work for the project were carried
out in-house by NPTC and reviewed by a foreign consultant (a UK firm). A
local consultant was engaged to carry out the detailed design and engineering
of the project. The performance of consultants was satisfactory.
Procurement
39.        The Bank guidelines were strictly adhered to by NTPC for
procurement of 80 contracts involving international competitive bidding.
Twenty contracts were awarded to foreign firms for an amount estimated at
US$46.6 million. The average procurement time per contract--from the issuance
of bid documents to contract award--was nearly 11 months, consisting of around
3 months for bidding and about 7-8 months for bid evaluation. In an effort to
speed up procurement, a standard bidding document for supply and erection has
been finalized in April 1992 10/. This model bidding document will be used
for bidding in World Bank financed projects and is expected to cut down the
time lag substantially. The release of final payments is linked to handing
over of the equipment or system after successful completion of the performance
and guarantee tests. In some major packages some deficiencies and defects
were noticed during the tests; final payments could be released only after
such problems were successfully and completely rectified. Further emphasis on
release of final payments under the contracts would help in restricting the
need for extension of the closing dates. NTPC should give this emphasis so
that the closing dates of new loan(s) would not need to be extended.
Project Documentation and Data
40.        The project's legal agreements adequately reflected the
Association's interest in satisfactory execution of the project. The staff
appraisal report was comprehensive, well prepared and provided a useful
framework for the Association and NTPC during the project implementation. The
Borrower regularly submitted Quarterly Progress Reports for the project.
These have been used for review of physical and financial performance and they
were generally used for planning visits of the supervision missions to India,
which often included site visits in addition to review meetings at NTPC
Corporate Office, New Delhi.
10/ Covering the Instructions to Bidders and General Terms and Conditions of
Contract.



- 14 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND KORBA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
(CREDIT 1172-IN)
PART-II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.       Adecuacv and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part III
1.             Part III of the PCR prepared by the Bank includes statistical data
covering various aspects of construction and operation of the project. The factual
information relating to NTPC, contained in this section is generally based on the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) prepared by the Bank for the project, discussions between
Bank and NTPC during various supervision missions and quarterly project progress
reports submitted by NTPC.
B.       Comments on the Analvsis in Part I
2.             The analysis made by the Bank under Part-I is comprehensive and has
covered important aspects. The analysis is generally in order. Nevertheless, there
are certain issues which need to be further examined keeping in view the background of
developments as they took place to better appreciate the events. These are as
follows:
I)       Proiect Implementation    (reference para 13 of Part I)
3.             As per SAR the first 500 MW unit was to be commissioned in five (5)
years time followed by subsequent units at an interval of one (1) year each
thereafter, from the date of award of the contract for the Main Plant and Equipment.
The SAR also mentions estimated commissioning dates as August' 86, August' 87 and
August' 88 for 1st, 2nd, and 3rd 500 MW units respectively based on Main Plant Award
date (zero date) of October' 81. The reasons for variation between these estimated
dates of unit commissioning and the corresponding actual dates need to be understood
as also the fact that this delay was not attributable to NTPC. In fact NTPC
effectively took all possible steps to minimize this delay by initiating advance
procurement action pending signing of the Credit Agreement, which made it possible to
award the contract for the main Plant and Equipment within three (3) months after the
IDA Credit became effective. (the Credit 1172-IN for Korba was signed in February,
1982 and it became effective only in May' 82, the main plant award was placed in
August' 82).
4.             One is likely to get an impression as if NTPC took unduly long time in
evaluation and award of the contract for the Steam Generator Package, which was on
critical path. This is not so. The bids for the Steam Generator (SG) package were
opened on 20.8.1981. The evaluation report/award recommendation for the package were
forwarded to World Bank on 18.3.1982. While conveying its concurrence on 9.4.1982,
World Bank asked for additional details regarding joint deed of undertaking furnished
by the collaborator of the recommended bidder and also on the capacity and capability
of the recommended bidder. Collection and compilation of these detailed information
from several manufacturing set ups and offices of the recommended bidder, spread over
the geographical collaborators was done in the most expeditious manner. The above
capacity assessment of the bidder to the satisfaction of the World Bank, pre-award



- 15 -
discussions and tying up of contract details and award of the contract took about four
(4) months time, which is most reasonable for a complex Steam Generator Package for
500 MW units.
5.             Based on the zero date of August 1982 (the date of award of Main Plant
Contract), the commissioning schedules for the three units (as per SAR) were August'
87, August' 88, and August' 89 respectively, and all the three units were commissioned
ahead of schedule by 3 to 6 months.
II) Credit Extension    (reference para 13 of Part I)
6.             The credit was originally scheduled to be closed on 31 December 89,
however it was extended by 24 months and was finally closed on 31 December 91. The
main reasons for extension in credit closing date are as follows:
Augmentation of Coal Handling Plant (CHP)
7.             Originally, the Coal Handling Plant was designed with minimum
redundancies with a view to keep the project cost low. However, provisions in the
layout had been kept to augment the system should the necessity arise. From initial
feed back of operations, augmentation of the coal handling system became imperative,
more so due to the fact that the quality of coal actually supplied to the plant was
worse than that considered in design of the plant. This augmentation included
installation of an additional track hopper, crusher house and associated conveyors
were provided to allow for the operation of the power station at full capacity, when
one of the CHP streams were out of operation for maintenance. Disbursements for the
coal handling plant augmentation package which was awarded in November 1988,
necessitated extension in the credit closing date.
Final Payments
8.             For Steam Generator Package (supplied by BHEL and their collaborator
Combustion Engineering, USA) some generic defects were noticed and modifications were
required to be carried out in the equipment thereby delaying the Performance and
Guarantee (P&G) test and consequently the release of final payments also necessitated
extension in the credit closing date.
III) Procurement    (reference para 39 of Part I)
9.             The average procurement time from issue of bid documents to contract
award was nearly eleven months, consisting of 3-4 months for bidding and about 7-8
months for bid evaluation, including necessary internal approvals, concurrence by the
Bank, pre award discussions and award of contract.
10.            Keeping in view the fact that the 500 MW units for Singrauli and Korba
(which were proceeding almost parallel) were the first ones for NTPC and did involve
certain peculiarities and complexities encountered in the bidding process under
international competitive bidding system. All these problems were effectively solved
by NTPC. Keeping the above in view, the time taken in evaluation of bids and award of
the contract, does not seem to be excessive and is comparable with other Bank financed
procurement, of course with some exceptions. Nevertheless, NTPC, with its eagerness
for a constant improvement, was successful in achieving a declining trend in the
subsequent projects.  NTPC  has also finalized with the Bank a standard bidding
document, which is expected to cut down the average procurement time further.



- 16 -
IV) Financing Issues
Receivables    (reference para 34 of Part I)
11.            Regarding NTPC's outstanding dues against the sale of power, it may be
noted that with a view to limit the accounts receivables to a reasonable level, a
covenant was provided first in the Loan Agreement for the Rihand Power Transmission
Project and was repeated in subsequent projects viz. the Combined Cycle Power Project,
Talcher Thermal Power Project and National Capital Thermal Power Project (NCTPP)
requiring NTPC to maintain its accounts receivables at a level not exceeding billing
for the two preceding months. The Bank is aware of NTPC's/GOI's continuous efforts to
bring down the receivables. As one of the measures GOI decided to recover through
Central appropriation an amount of Rs. 1020.50 crs. due to NTPC from SEB's as on
May, 1990. In addition to above, as a one time measure, to make a substantial
reduction in outstandings, NTPC took over the Feroze Gandhi Unchahar Thermal Power
Project (FGUTPP), (2x210 MW) of Uttar Pradesh Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam (a Government
of UP undertaking). These measures resulted in the outstandings of NTPC being brought
down considerably well within the covenanted line. By acquiring FGUTPP, NTPC has also
gained by adding to its portfolio, a productive asset by way of adjustment of its
outstandings and surcharge thereon. During the course of discussions, it has also
been realized by the Bank that for the size and nature of NTPC's operations the
covenant relating to measure of receivable at the level of two (2) months average
billing is not realistic and needs a review 11/. Nevertheless, NTPC and the
Government of India are constantly endeavoring to keep the bills receivable with in
reasonable limits.
Return on Investment
12.            NTPC's return on net average fixed assets in operation (historically
valued) though declined from a high of 17? in FY86 to 13? in FY91, have been
substantially higher than the covenanted figures (9.5Z). The main reason for the
decline is that in the case of units commissioned later and with higher (500 MW)
capacity, though higher capital cost has been incurred, the tariffs charged are still
on the basis of capital cost of 200 MW units commissioned in first half of 1980s.
With the implementation of revised tariffs (two part tariff system as per K.P. Rao
committee report) the declining trend in the rate of return is expected to be
arrested.
13.            With regard to para 29 of Part-I concerning sustainability of NTPC's
medium and long term growth rate and financing requirements of overall sectoral
capacity expansion (and efficiency improvements) needed to close the demand/supply
gap, the Bank is aware that GOI has taken several measures to augment the resources
available for power sector by way of major policy changes which encourages private
sector participation, including foreign participation, in the field of generation and
/or transmission/distribution of electricity. These measures are expected to provide
substantial additionality of funds for the power sector and help in minimizing the
demand/supply gap. NTPC's capacity expansion program would also have to be reviewed
in the context of these developments and keeping in view NTPC's excellent track
record, it is expected that necessary financial support from external financing source
including the World Bank, ADB etc. would continue.
Further, NTPC could also be able to mobilize necessary resources from domestic capital
market and external commercial borrowing . The mingle most important factor to be
11/ This statement is GOI's and NTPC's perspective and does not reflect
accurately the Bank's views and position.



- 17 -
taken care of in this regard is concerning the outstanding. to be kept within
acceptable limit for which all possible actions are being taken by NTPC and GOI, about
which the Bank is being fully kept apprised. As regards the sector as a whole also,
the various SEBs have taken/are taking several measures including those under OFAPs
which, are expected, to go a long way in reducing the several deficiencies.
V) Environment, Resettlement and Rehabilitation    (reference paras 17, 18. 19, 20 and
21 of Part-I)
14.            It has been mentioned in para 16 that environmental and rehabilitation
issues outside the power plant project (i.e. of the coal mine, power plants built and
operated by the Madhya Pradesh State Electricity Board, and many industries developed
in the area) were not studied. It needs to be appreciated that these actions were not
in the purview of NTPC. Further, the concerned organizations were obliged to comply
with the applicable regulations although the details of the actions taken by them have
not been covered (presumably not considered relevant for this Project Completion
Report for Korba-II)
15.            As per the existing regulations and practices prevailing at the time of
implementation of the project, all rehabilitation measures were implemented in
consultations with the concerned State Governments. Informal consultations with the
Project Affected Persons (PAPs) about the help to be provided by NTPC in
rehabilitation and resettlement were also made although formal consultation with the
PAPs through Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) or other similar forum were not
held as this was neither stipulated by the Bank nor was the prevailing practice.
Nevertheless, as brought out in para 19, NTPC has taken adequate measures in this
regard not only in compliance with the prevailing regulations but also even beyond in
so far these were practicable. As far as NTPC's role to act as catalyst for the mines
and associated urban and rural development is concerned, NTPC has already taken a lead
amongst all the industries in conducting comprehensive EIA studies and adequate
Rehabilitation, Resettlement - mitigative measures and in monitoring programs and has
been freely exchanging the relevant information with the other industries. What is
required perhaps is a little more initiative on the part of these industries and the
support of the Government for accelerating the process.
16.            With reference to para 20 regarding the requirement of additional ash
dyke, it is to be clarified that the existing ash dyke built under Stage-I of the
project presently has a capacity which is sufficient to cater to the entire project
(2100 MW) up to 1994-95. It has however been examined that the height of the existing
dyke can be raised in stages to cater to the requirements of the station up to 1999-
2000. In the meantime, NTPC is exploring the construction of the additional ash dyke
which could cater to the balance requirement up to the total plant life, with the
financial assistance from the Bank and KfW.
17.            As brought out in para 20 of Part-I, the need for utilization of ash
has been well recognized by NTPC and towards this end a full fledged Ash Utilization
Division has been formed at Corporate Office with Deputy General Manager as its head,
reporting to Director (Technical). This division has initiated all necessary actions
for maximum possible utilization of ash from NTPC's power stations. The progress made
in the case of Korba STPP is as under:
i)       Characterization of ash has been done to determine its properties to *ssess
the suitability of ash for various purposes.
ii)      Utilization of ash as core embankment material for raising the ash dykes.  An
estimated quantity of about 300,000 mJ of ash is being utilized at [orba for raising



- 18 -
the height of present ash dyke. More quantity of ash is proposed to be utilized for
this purpose in the future.
iii)     Korba STPP employs wet method for ash handling system.  It is planned to
convert it into dry ash extraction system having storage facilities in a progressive
manner, to facilitate utilization of ash in nearby cement manufacturing units and for
other applications.
iv)      Laboratory scale investigations with the assistance of M/s Central Building
Research Institute, (CBRI) Roorkee, have been successful for using ash in the
manufacturing of ash-lime-sand bricks.
18.            Regarding use of ash for back filling of mines, NTPC had taken up with
the concerned mining authorities but they have not yet agreed. However, the matter is
again being taken up with the Coal India Limited for the use of ash for back filling
of either abandoned or active mines. As regards the question of development of the
national level technologies in mining and ash handling, which allow back filling of
ash to the mines, this aspect will have to be studied in detail by the concerned
agencies considering all its implications including the levels of investment required
and their possible sources etc.
19.            As evident from para 21 of Part-I, NTPC has fulfilled all its
obligations in connection with environmental requirements which also establishes that
the organization's environmental group was adequately staffed. However, the need for
augmenting the unit to cater to the future requirements is well recognized and the
same is being adequately addressed under the proposed NTPC-Power Generation Project.
VI) Evaluation of the Bank's Performance
20.            Korba Thermal Power Project was the second in the series of large
thermal power projects (Singrauli being the first project) and the first in the
Western Power Region of the country taken up by NTPC for implementation during its
first phase of development. The assistance extended by the Bank contributed
substantially in bringing the project to fruition. The project was supervised closely
and an adequate number of site visits under supervision missions were made. Excellent
cooperation existed between the Bank staff and NTPC during the implementation of the
project. In fact, this relationship continued to grow and to date the Bank group has
extended financial assistance to NTPC to the extent of nearly USS 4 billion for the
implementation of 13 projects. With the approval of assistance for the Second Korba
project, the Bank Group was involved in the total Korba Project up to its ultimate
capacity. Discussions for a series of three Bank loans for a total commitment of US $
1 billion to support NTPC's investment program during the eight plan period under
'time slice' concept are in progress.
VII) Evaluation of the Borrower's Own Performance
21.            At the time the second Korba Thermal Power Project was envisaged, it
was expected that the project, on completion would contribute significantly to the
easing of power shortages in the region. With the satisfactory completion of the
project NTPC has been able to achieve this main objective as the generating
performance of the units at this station has been satisfactory and the power station
is supplying much needed electricity to the Western Region, which continues to suffer
from peaking as well as energy shortages. The project has also contributed to the
overall development of the area.



- 19 -
22.            Right from inception, NTPC had adopted as an organizational objective,
achievement of self sufficiency in the design and engineering of large thermal power
stations and high voltage transmission lines. This process was started in its first
project itself i.e. Singrauli (also financed by the Bank) and NTPC has substantially
achieved this goal in the Korba project. For the first time, entire design and
engineering for this project were successfully done by NTPC in-house with very limited
support from consultants.
23.            NTPC has recognized training, both managerial and technical, as one of
the important needs for organizational development. It is significant that the Korba
and Farakka power projects assisted by the Bank include procurement of a full scope
500 MW thermal power plant training simulator. The Korba project also has a 200 MW
training simulator. This has been very useful in training of power plant operators
and technicians and has contributed significantly in efficient and reliable operation
of NTPC's Power Plants.
24.            It has been recognized that NTPC has set for itself a tight time
schedule of commissioning 500 MW units within 5 years from the date of order of the
main plant equipment. To achieve this objective, NTPC developed its Integrated
Project Management and Control System (IPMCS) taking into account the work culture and
working environment in which NTPC is operating.  The IPMCS has been successfully used
by NTPC which is evident from the fact that almost all of its projects were completed
in time and in some cases, even ahead of schedule.






- 20 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
SECOND KORBA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
(CREDIT 1172-IN)
PART III: STATISTICAL SUMMARY
Related IDA CREDIT
Credit No.                                     Year of
Title                        Purpose          Approval       Status         Comments
Credit 793-IN            To help reduce   April 1978        Closed     The project was
Korba Thermal Power    the power                            in March  successfully
shortage in                        1986       completed
Western Region
through the
construction of
the three 200
MW coal fired
thermal power
plant with
associated 400
kV transmission
lines.
Prolect Timetable
Date             Date                    Date
Item                Planned          Revised                  Actual
Appraisal Mission                10/80                             10/80; 01-02/81
Credit Negotiation                                                      05/81
Board Approval                                                        07/07/81
Credit Signature                                                      02/04/82
Credit Effectiveness                                                  03/16/82
Credit Closing                12/31/89      (i) 12/31/90              12/31/91
(ii)12/31/91
Credit Completion                                                     04/30/92



- 21 -
Disbursements (in US$ million)
Credit 1172-IN
IDA Fiscal Year             Estimated              Actual           Actual X of
and Semester                Cumulative            Cumulative        Estimated
(in US$ million)    (in US$ million)
1982    1
2                        15                     0
1983    1                         25                   32.0            8.6
2                        50                    32.7           8.8
1984    1                         53                   32.7            8.8
2                       106                   50.7           13.7
1985    1                        168                   58.1          15.6
2                       234                   91.3           24.6
1986    1                        281                  113.5           30.6
2                       317                   164.5          44.3
1987    1                        341                  186.9          50.3
2                       357                  231.6           62.4
1988    1                        360                  264.9           71.3
2                       370                  295.8           79.6
1989    1                        380                  306.7          82.6
2                       390                  343.6           92.5
1990    1                       400 Ia                343.6          92.5
2                         -                  355.1           95.6
1991    1                          -                  359.8          96.9
-                  366.2          98.6
1992    1                          -                   366.2         98.6
2                         -                   371.0        100.0 /a
Li The original amount of the credit was SDR 325.6 million (equivalent to
US$400 million). On December 5, 1991, SDR 9.2 million (equivalent to
US$11.3 million) which was no more needed for the completion of the project
was cancelled. The Credit was closed on December 31, 1991. In accordance
with the Association's practice, the credit account was left open until
April 30, 1992, in order to complete the disbursements for eligible
expenditures made until December 31, 1991. On May 19, 1992, the last
disbursement was made and the undisbursed balance of SDR 1,828,827.50
(equivalent to US$2.5 million) was cancelled. Thus the total amount
disbursed from the Credit was SDR 314,571,172.50 (equivalent to US$371.4
million). This includes the Special Account which was fully documented.



- 22 -
Project Implementation
Revised
Indicators                   Appraisal Estimate    Estimate                 Actual
(1)  Installation of:           To be commissioned   To be commissioned  Commissioned
in:/a                 in:/a                in:1a lb
No. 4 500 MW unit,         August 1986            August 1987          May 1987
No. 5 500 MW unit, and    August 1987             August 1988          March 1988
No. 6 500 MW unit          August 1988            August 1989          February 1989
(2)  Installation of            To be commissioned                          Commissioned
associated 400 kV          in:                                         between June
transmission lines         March 1986                                  1983 and Janu-
totalling about                                                        ary 1990 /c
1,100 km and associated
substation
/a Commissioning means synchronization.
/b Dates of commercial operation were as follows:
No. 4 500 MW        March 1988
No. 5 500 MW        April 1989
No. 6 500 MW        June 1990
/c Dates of commissioning of 400 kV lines and associated substation were as follows:
Koradi-Satpura         November 1986
Korba-Bhilai II        June 1983
Satpura-Indore         December 1986
Bhilai-Koradi          April 1984
Indore-Asoj            December 1986
Korba-Bhilai III       January 1990
Bhilai-Chandrapur      February 1989
Chandrapur Substation March 1989



- 23 -
Prolect Costs and Financing
A. Comparison of Estimated and Actual Projects Costs
SAR      Actual       SAR    Actual
(In Rs million)      (US$ million)
A. Power Plant and Facilities
1. Preliminary and civil works            707.00   2,432.50      88.30  146.93
2. Mechanical works                     3,455.70   8,097.73    432.00  573.08
3. Electrical works                       626.10     593.64      78.20   43.43
4. Coal transportation system             129.90     137.32      16.20    7.73
Subtotal (A)                      4,918.70  11,261.19    614.70  771.17
B. Transmission System                       810.80   1,791.54    101.30  135.05
C. Consultant's Services and Studies          67.20        *         8.80    *
D. Engineering and Administration etc.       631.80      703.10     78.50   44.61
E. Contingency (physical)                    321.60        *        40.40    *
F. Contingency (price)                     3,171.20        *       396.30    *
G. Duties and taxes                        1,176.40        *       147.00    *
Total Project Cost                     11,097.70  13,755.83  1,387.00  950.83
(excluding IDC and WCM)
H. Interest during construction (IDC)        724.70        0.00     90.60    0.00
I. Working capital margin                      0.00     155.80       0.00   10.45
Total Financing Required                  11,822.40  13,911.63  1,477.60  961.28
* Covered under respective package costs.



-24-
3. Project Financing
planned
(Credit
Source                           n              Final                 Coemnts
1. IDA
CATEGORYt
(1) Boilers and aux-
iliaries and           162,800                176,167
associated erec-
tion works
(2) Electrical
equipment and           48,640                 27,622
associated
erection works
(3) Other power
station equip-          41,100                 64,751
ment and
associated
erection works
(4) Coal handling
and transporta-           9,770                12,614
tlon :quipmnt
and assocLated
*rections works
(5) Transmission
equipment and           44.770                 28,853
associated
erection works
(6) Consultant's
services and             1.220                      96
studies
(7) Unallocated
Revised sub-            17,100                     ---
total
Cancelled
Special Account C')             ___                  2,466
Sub-total
(Disbursed from        325,600                314,571
IDA Credit)
Cancelled
- Dec. 5, 1991             -_-                9,2001b
- Hay 19, 1992              ___               1,829 
Total -- IDA Credit         325.600                325,600
Equivalent of above         400.000      27.0    386,700           40.4
sub-total (US$O00)
2.  RFW (US$'OOO)  la            67.100        4.5   93 600L4           9.7
3.  Domestic (US$S000)        1.010,500       686.5    478,980         49.9
Total (US$000)        1.477,600        100    961,260          100.0
la~ The cofinancing agreownt between KMY of Federal Republic of Germany was signed on
May 23, 1964 in tue amount of DM 190 lIlion (equivalent to VS$67.1 million in
1964) to cover supply and services for three 500 M4W turbo-generator units and high
i ressu re piing.
lb   DR 9.2 million (e ulvalent to US$11.3) was cancelled on December 5, 1991.
7c The undisbursed baLance of SDR 1,626 627.50 was cancelled on Kay 19, 1992.
Based on the conversion rate prevailng on dates of actual dieburse  nt.
The Special Account was fully documeted In the carren   of the Special Account.
The amount of SR 2.467,686.41, indicated under the Specialciccount category above,
represents the exchange rate fluctuation between the MD and the currency of the
Special Account from the time of advances to the Special Account to the time of
documentation of the Account.



-25-
Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Estimated at Closing
Date/Full Development
Indicator                              (As of December 31, 1991) /a
1.  Energy Generation (GWh)           Unit 4 (500 MW)  11,273.8
(Since commercial                      5 (500 MW)   7,989.7
operation)                          6 (500 MW)   4,715.7
Total             23,979.2
2.  Power Transmission                To the Beneficiaries
States of Western
Region
/a Credit closing date.
B. Economic Impact
(1)       In the appraisal report, the return on investment was calculated for
the second phase expansion by 1,500 MW of the first 600 MW stage of the Korba
thermal power station to demonstrate the relationship between tariffs and the
economic cost of the development. It was defined as the discount rate at
which the present worth of the economic cost associated with the development
equals the present worth of the economic benefits over the life cycle of the
development. The measurable costs included:
(e) capital and labor costs involved in the development of generation
and transmission facilities;
(f) the annual operation and maintenance costs; and
(g) fuel costs.
The benefits were measured in terms of the revenues to be derived from the
sale of electricity.
(2)       Based on measurable economic costs and benefits associated with the
1,500 MW development, the ex-ante internal economic rate of return (IERR) was
estimated at about 15 percent (for economic tariff of Rs 0.28/kWh and consumer
surplus of Rs 0.08/kWh) and about 12 percent (for economic tariff of Rs
0.28/kWh only). For PCR, the benefits were calculated by the following two
ways: (a) weighted average of sales tariffs of SEBs of Rs 1.06/kWh was
applied; (b) total tariff of Rs 1.94/kWh including consumer surplus of Rs
0.88/kWh 10/ was applied. The resultant ex-post IERRs for the 1500 MW
development were: (a) about 14?, and (b) about 25Z. Relatively higher level
of IERRs is obtained due to relatively higher sales tariffs in the Western
Region. Detailed calculation is shown in Annex 1.
10/ The consumer surplus as per SAR for Second Maharashtra Power Project was
used as a reference.



-26-
(3)       Comparison of tariffs in SAR and PCR is summarized below.
State         Share of regional
consumption (1)              Average Tariff (Paise/kWh)
SAR       PCR        SAR 1980-81       PCR 1990-91   1991/92
Maharashtra (MSEB) 53          29            28.9            110
Madhya Pradesh
(MPEB)             18        29             40.4             83
Gujarat (GEB)       29      17.1             33.3             85
Goa                   -       10
Unallocated           -     14.9                               n.a.
Weighted average                                               n.a.
- financial                               32.2             99            106
- economic                                28.0
C.  Financial Impact
(1)       Following the commissioning of the first Korba units in 1983/84,
most of the power from Korba has been sold to MPEB (472), MSEB (272) and GEB
(21Z), the balance was supplied to Goa, Dadara and Nagar Haveli and Daman &
Diu. Starting in 1989/90 some power was also supplied to the Northern Region.
MSEB and GEB have been among the better NTPC clients and have generally kept
their outstanding dues below 2 months of sales equivalent. HPEB has had a
less satisfactory payment record and as of February 1992, dues outstanding
were equivalent to 3 months of sales equivalent.
(2)       NTPC's actual and projected financial statements for the period
FY85-FY91 are presented in Annexes 2 to 4. The most salient feature of NTCP's
operations was the spectacular growth the corporation experienced.   From FY85
to FY91, the value of average net fixed assets increased by 38Z per annum,
while electricity sales (GWh) grew with an average of 302 per annum. The pace
of NTPC's growth is however declining. Total annual investments increased
only by about 172 over the same period and work-in-progress has remained
stagnant since FY88. In FY90 the value of net assets in operation became
larger than work-in-progress.   During the period under review, net profits
even grew by 412 per annum, but NTPC's return on net average fixed assets in
operation (historically valued) declined from a high 172 in FY86 and FY87 to
132 in FY91. The returns achieved are well in excess of the 9.52 which was
required under the loan as a target from FY89. GOI's current policy is to set
tariffs for NTPC power stations on a cost-plus basis with specific normative
operational parameters. NTPC's better financial performance should be largely
credited to NTPC having operated the power stations at efficiencies well above
the norms and standards used for the purpose of tariff setting. On the other
hand, while NTPC's performance was much better than most other public
enterprises, the FY91 returns were negative in real terms. Moreover, NTPC's
contributions to investments from internal resources was relatively modest and
the level of accounts receivable, throughout the period under review was well
above the 2 months level covenanted by the Bank under Ln. 2555-IN, in 1985.
The following table represents the key operational results forecasted in the
appraisal report compared with actuals:



-27-
UMCn MU AM ,MS@MOI .,N1A. PWR PIJICtI
.........................................
Tow  O'lnu 6rib i1              196       1951      197         96       19119     1990      1991
......... ..... ~...........................  ................   ................   ................   ................   ...............   ...............   ...............
Peema.t  Actul  riOcat  ACtua  Fa's:   Acstu  FWw.st  ActuLt For.c..t Aetuasl Fomat  Acrtu Pru    s.  Aotual
lstriuz tle9  04t  i tt)       6;551    8,316    9,3935  12,9    13,21  14,40    17tt 10    17,;33   24,070   24,875  30,651   35,421  36.i   40,306
AvwreSgltk TW,ltl P/1DAi .imor.tfg.)  33  37  33  36  34   40   34   Al   35   46   36   52   36   53
ToAt owating  arnum            2,2919    3,436    3,513    5129  4,32   6,453    8,528    6,822   6954   12,5748  11,5  20,573  13,900   24,207
?otel op.wlng  6xp.s           1376    2,02    2,131    2 .943    2,77  3,522    3,36  4.712   3,342    7,559   8,99    12,567'  1,39    14,577
USA Ppuflt                      257  675   336    1.1M  5SW  2,116  625    3,024  880    3,308   1,1164    5.386   1.99  F.009
8aug8 of   Pltie On 0 CD g   t  CZ)  18.28l   10,957 21, "75   14,016   26-  17,209   35.582  23,56  45,041   35,07r  53,332   53,567  57,919    5,412
baca.96.cwnmuls:e.leA,..scz)  88  ~~~~~~138  73  liiX   a   1711  73  16"  8x  15  91    110  131
apwtugl    Acti. CZ)             808  598  618   568  5811  558  519  558  608  398  808  818  808  8011
COWMINNIM, to Cuwtnztla,o (Aes.Anl  X    78  8a  -18  121  98   18    ax  258  108  931  138    1CX01  I6L
86d6 Sepilg  0ewr89             2.0  3.3   1.8  4.9  1.71  4.0  1.4  3.9  1.4  2.4  1.3  2.5  1.3  2.5
Idiqtlty maci.                34/68    32/6  3830 363 /6  41/5$9    42/58    45/55    43/57    47/53   47/53    45/55   47/53    4258   434
twvq    Ratio.                  7.3  1.0  8.0   1.6  5.9  1.6  5.8  1.7  5.2  1.8  4.7  1.1  7.2  1.9
Aes6ew Sm1~eNoM ( ofd)           32  1I"   32  163  32  1I"   32  177  32  175  32  210   3   m
(3)        As can be seen from the table above, NTPC has in fact outperformed
most of the financial targets set in the appraisal report, the exceptions
being the much lower level self financing and poor bill collection. While the
lower level of self financing can be partly attributed to the much larger size
of the investment program than anticipated during appraisal, the level of
accounts receivable has consistently been above 5 months and was even 7.7
months of sales equivalent at the end of FY91 11/. The situation would
have been worse if the Government had not at times, settled part the
outstanding bills on behalf of the SEBs through central appropriations. Also,
the increased working capital requirements resulting from the poor bill
collection performance, considerably reduced NTPC's ability to contribute to
its investment program from its internal resources. NTPC's average self
financing ratio from FY87-91 was only about 122 and NTPC was increasingly
confronted with tightening liquidity situation.   The unsatisfactory bill
collection performance has not only reduced NTPC's self-financing ratio, but
more importantly, its inability to collect in time, has prevented NTPC's
traditional lenders, such as the Bank, to extend new loans to finance new
plants in NTPC's investment program.
(4)        Under the prevailing policy environment in the Indian power sector,
whereby the Government determines fixed allocation for supply of power of NTPC
plants and NTPC is unable to either cut-off or re-allocate power from non
paying customers, NTPC is prevented from operating on a pure commercial basis.
Since many of the SEBs have not been respecting the commercial terms of the
supply contracts, bill collection in the current environment is largely beyond
NTPC's control. Bill collection for power generated from the project has been
much better, but most of NTPC sales are presently in the Northern and Eastern
Regions, which have also been the major defaulters in terms of payment of
bills.
11/   In May 91, GOI decided to settle an amount of Rs.10 billion through
central appropriations over a period of four years. In addition, in
January 1992, NTPC took over the Unchahar Power Station from UPSEB,
NTPC's largest defaulter, with the proceeds to be used to off-set the
accumulated arrears. As a result, the average level of NTPC's accounts
receivable at the end of February 1992 was about two months of sales
equivalent, not taking into account the Rs.5 billion, which is still to
be paid by GOI through central appropriations in FY93 and FY94.



-28-
FY87 - FY91
Year Ending March 31, 1991      Forecast       Z       Actual       Z
(Re million)          (Re million)
Total Internal Cash
Generation                    24,843        61        36,518     29
Equity Contributions              2,311        6        35,876     29
Capital Receipts                      0                    363      0
Loans                               -                   34,404     27
Bonds                                                   18,539     15
Total Borrowings                13,615        33        52,943     42
Total Sources                   40,769       100       125,700    100
Total Investments               20,491        50       100,977     80
Total Debt Service              18,110        44        13,483     11
Increase in Working Capital      2,169         5        11,241      9
Total Applications              40,769       100       125,700    100
Contribution to construction         22Z                    12Z
Debt service coverage               1.4                    2.7
(5)       During the FY87-FY91 period, NTPC met 42? of its total financing
requirements including debt service and increased working capital needs by
borrowing. The balance was met equally from internal cash generation and GOI
equity contributions. This denotes a heavy reliance on GOI support,
particularly if we take into account that a large part of the borrowings were
loans made by multilateral and bilateral agencies to GOI which were onlent to
NTPC. Although the interest rates were in line with those charged in the
domestic capital markets (up to 152 in the period under review), GOI generally
took the foreign exchange risk, and the terms (20 years, including 5 years
grace) were more favorable than commercial credits. Also, GOI has ploughed
all profits back into NTPC's operation, by not requiring any dividends to be
paid out. During NTPC's initial period of growth this was a sound policy, but
it has also shielded NTPC and its customers from paying the full cost of the
power generated by NTPC.   GOI has recently indicated that entities such as
NTPC would no longer be able to rely on GOI budgetary support, have to start
paying out dividends and that it would have to raise its own funds in the
capital markets. GOI has realized that this requires a reorientation of
NTPC's financial, as well as commercial, policies and practices. The new
policies would aim at a greater reliance on funds generated from internal
resources and NTPC's ability to raise funds from domestic and international
capital markets. The details are currently being discussed in the context of
a new operation for NTPC.



-29-
Status of Covenants
CUVENANT                                 SUUJECT                           STATUS
ProJect Agreement dated June . 1980
PA 2.02                              NPTC shall engage                    CooplTod with
consultants to  ssist                 o       In
the doslgn and ongino ring
of the Project.
PA 2.04                              NPTC shall take out                  Compild with
Insurance on goods Imported
for the ProJect.
PA 2.05                             NTPC shall maintain                  Complied with
appropriate records on the
Project and furnish regular
progress reports to the
Association.
PA 2.06                              NTPC shall furnish a                 Being compilied
completion report within
six months after the
closing date of the
Project.
PA 2.08                              NTPC shall properly acquire          Complied with
all neessxary larcd for the
Projoct.
PA 2.09                              NTPC shall ensuro                    Coepild with
compliance with appropriate
environmental standards In
execution and operation of
the Project.
PA 8.04                              NTPC shall take out                  Compild with
insurance against risk in
uch amounts as will be
consistent with appropriate
practice.
PA 3.05                              NTPC will sell to SEEB  and
EDCOA S8X of power
generated by project, under
contract satisfactory to
the Association.
PA 4.02                              NTPC shall submit audited            86/88:  Compled
financial statements and             86/87:  Complied
auditors report within 7             67/88:  Complied
months of FY end.                    88/89:  Complied
89/90:  Complied
90/91:  Complied
PA 4.08                              NTPC shall achiev, an                Supersoded by covenents
annual rate of return of             under subsequent NTPC
not less than 9.5X from              Projecto requiring 7X ROR
FY90/91 onwards.                     In FY84/86 through FY89/90
and 9.5X ROR from FY90/91
to FY94/95 and a
satisfactory level
thereafter - being complied
with .!
AM PA 12                             GOI to provide by 4/82               Not known
lmplementation plan for 6
priority areas for power
sector improv emnts.
/a Rate of return moens operating lncom  (before interest after taxes) as a percontn g  of the
average of the net fixed assets in operation at the beginning and at the end of the fiscal year



-30-
COVENANT                                           SUBJECT                           STATUS
Dovelopmnt Credit Apreement Dated February 4. 1982
CA 2.02 (b)                         001 shall maintain a                 Complied with
special Account in Dollars          (Opened 3/86 814.7 M)
(as amended 8/18/8C)
CA 3.01 (b)                         00C  shall enter into a              Complied with
subsidiary loan agreement           (the actual amount was 12X
with NTPC under term                per annum)
satisfactory to the
Association. (Not lses
than 11.76X per annum).
CA 3.03                             GOI shall grant import               Complied with
permission for goods
financed under tho Projoct
and make available foreign
exchange funds roquired
therefore.
CA 3.04                             001 shall ensure adequate            Complied with
supply of coal by the tim
the first unit In
coemissioned.
CA 3.05                             GOI to furnish to the                85/86:  Complied
Association not later than          86/87:  Complied
6 months after the end of           87/88:  Complied
the FY the auditor's report         88/89:  Complied
in respect of the special           89/90:  Complied
account.  (Amended                  90/91: Complied
4/16/87).
CA 8.06 (b)                         GOI to submit the                    87/88: Complied
Association not later than          88/89:  Complied
6 months after end of FY            89/90:  Complied
auditor's opinion In                90/91:  Complied
regards to the statements
of expenditure submitted
during the year.
(Amended 3/16/87)



-31-
Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Staff inputs in carrying out the various tasks through the project
cycle from preparation in FY81 to completion in FY92 were as follows:
Tasks                                            Input (Staff-weeks)
Project Preparation                                     7.1
Project Appraisal                                      32.5
Loan Negotiations                                      11.0
Loan Processing                                        10.4
Project Supervision                                    39.9
Project Completion Report                               4.3
Project Administration                                  1.1
Total                                       106.3
D. Missions
Month/   Number of    Days      Speciali-   Performance    Type of
Project Cycle     Year      Persons    in Field    zation /a    Rating Lb   Problems /c
Through Appraisal
Identification Id
Preparation LI
Preappraisal ld
Appraisal       10/80
01-02/81
Supervision 1  02/81                 3       25     E, FA, EC         1
Supervision 2  05/83                 2       20          E. FA         2
Supervision 3  05/85                 2       15         E, FA         1
Supervision 4  09/86                 3       19      E, E, FA         1
Supervision 5  09/87                 3       10     E, FA, FA          1
Supervision 6  01/88                 3       20     E, FA, FA         1
Supervision 7  09/88                 3       29     E, FA, EC         1
Supervision 8  07/89                 1       11              E        1
Supervision 9  02/90                 1       8               E        1
Supervision 10 07/90                 1       9               E        1
Supervision 11 07/91                 1                  E, FA         1
PCR             02/92                1       9          E, FA
a E: Engineer, FA:  Financial Analyst, EC: Economist.
5 1 - No or minor problem, 2 - Moderate problem, 3 - Major problem.
PR: Procurement problems and delays, I - Implementation delays,
D - Disbursement delays.
/e Identification was made by GOI in 1974. Preparation and preappraisal
were made by NTPC in 1978.



linal                                          Iaaa  bb..m. 64ooue UsIa f Usa  foe Kel-lI
1.6g.Compg~       3.6636. Ooaalm    (@)            620p   lUlam/a)
M.Coo CaOs/m,)   11.U  7. Amo. Comm.    3           6.1
8.811 C"aPaAl)  4474.94 B. 40MV lami    M           2.3
4.6     Uk/wav   400 9. TMD L_a"       (S)           18
S.k.flba  Vaue" ob tariff of 1.OMJb
Coma_r surplus losl oldas 1.04MOjM  /a
Ilopeadli W.Soaflb
Pa., SIablem           Tromolola. 6Wb.    U,                Tebl                                            kd.d         a.d
Oparabima   t1o                              70 CobT        Cosb of                   a. Cm                 Ts"$  Comael.aT   ProJes
Clapibl                      T  b      C alb        TO"Tl   Caplal          SPuppy baam.roblaalao   from    survla.  1.b                   f iba
Year    C_o    Ci    oil       amt    Ps       COOb   Iai  TS       Cod'    so   E    - ti.r(m4)   (04)   End-4iarlln.luded lb      (es")      (incla.aonau
192-6      6.4                            3.4   24.9            24.9  240.8            77.                                       1.4   (1,582.2)  (,52.2)
19344    Uo0.6                          540.6   62.6           6.   24.7               1.                                      861.3   (1,54.9)  (1.9)
193446  1.61.4                          1861.4   2U.S          22.5   26.2           2,241.1                                    66.   (3,311.4)  (8.611.4)
19-6  I.34                              14.    82.9            82.9   712.4          2.164.9                                    61.4   (4,177.2)  (4,177.2)
1936s-7  1.66.2                         1.2    241.6           241.6   7".1    2,769.9                                           4.   (4,267.9)  (4.267.9)
11746  1,417.2   16.5    0.9    84.0 &1.04.   257.1 12.7   29.3  670.2    3.2 28.9   1A.4   102.4    6.4   176.5   70.2  (3,419.2)  (2.27S.2)
21964   1,29.5   466.S   31.7   200.0 2.073.2  262.0 1.6  29.6   6.6   76.1 3.,04.8 2444.9 2.666.2  2,60.7  4,661.5   73.6    (T76.2)   1,92.4
19169-93    677.2   736.1   6.7   26o.0 1.049.9    9.  15.8   46.7    1l.&   34.3 2.291.4 5,6.1 4260.2  4,866.6 7372.4    *1.1    2,64.8   7,006.2
416-91   (746.6) 1,000.4    6.    316.0   907.7   (6.9) 18.S  (41.6) (844.3)   77.4   39. 6 *.,0..  6,046.1  224. 11.91.6    39.          6,29.7   12,066.2
& MI-92    80.0 1.168.4    ".S   600.0 2,187.7   27.0 13.6   42.6   147.2   60.2 2,407.8 O.e.0 64".8  6540.5 12,519.4   100.0   4,422.7   10.111.3
6I9-98    218.4  1,116.6   62.1   60.e0 2,067.1   21.1 18.6    2.9   146.5    6S.2 2,26.0  8,2e0.0 6 198.  6*,8.1 12,018.4  1w.0   4,211.4    9.861.7
7 199-4  1.468.4  1.110.6   32.1   6e.0 8*,.o   10.1 17.S   167.4   673.1    9.7 4,169.8 6,20.0  6,192.6 6. ",.1 12,018.4   180.0    2,396.9    7.6146.2                 W
a19946            1,116.6     .1   600.0 1,766.7          17.2   17.2             96.7 1,662.7 *,60.0 6,196.5 3,663.1 12,01.4   100.0    4,662.4    0,122.7
9 19s             1,116.6   62.1   6o.0 17,766.7          17.8   17.2             96.7 1,6.7 3,260.0 6,191.8 4,.1 12,038.4   100.0   4,662.4   10,132.7
10 199-7           1,116.6   62.1   60.o 1,76.7            17.2    17.2           9.7 1,32.7 6,26.0 6,19.1 6,8U.1 12,01.4   100.0   4,662.4   10,1#2.7
1a                 1 ,11.6   62.1   600.0 1,786.7          17.2    17.2           96.7 1,662.7 6,230.0 6,19.*  6,6 6.1 12,018.4   100.0    4,662.4   10,132.7
12 l99 eo          1,116.6   62.1     O.0 1.766.7          17.8    17.5           9.7 1,82.7 6,250.0 6,19.5 6,1666.1 12,013.4   100.0    4,632.4   10,1U2.7
18 1990            1,116.    62.1   600.0 1,766.7          17.S    17.2           9.7 1,6.7 8,20.0 6,192.5 6,6.1 12,013.4   100.0   4,662.4   10,182.7
14 2000-01         1116.4   62.1   6o.0 1,766.7            17.2   17.8            96.7 1,662.7 6,260.0 6.1.9.  6,363.1 12u,01.4   100.0   4,62.4   10, U1.7
i8s ,1-0           1,316.6   62.1   600.0 1,763.7          17.8   17.2            96.7 1,662.7 0,260.0 6,193.6 6,5.1 12,0181.4   280.0   4,63.4   10, U1.7
16 266345          1,116.6   62.1   6o.o  ,7.7             17.8   17.2            9.7 1,662.7 3,260.0 6,191.3 6,3 6.1 12,013.4   *eo.o   4,662.4   10,1U.7
I7 2006046         1,10.      2.1   6o.0 1,766.7           17.5   17.2            94.7 1,6.7 6,260.0 6,193.5 6,66.1 12,61S.4   100.0   4,662.4   10,113.7
18 100443          1.,1).    6 ".1  600.0 1,766.7          17.2    17.2           9.7 1.63.7 6,230.0 6,19.5 6,568.1 12,012.4   100.0    4,662.4   10,U1.7
19 21005-          1,116.6    2.1   6o.0 1,766.7           17.2   17.2             6.7 1,32.7 S,36.0 6,198.3 6,66.1 12,018.4  1e0.0   4,66.4   10,12.7
20 2006-37         1,116.6   62.1   6o.o 1,766.7           17.2   17.3            96.7 1,66.7 6,20.0 6,198.8  8.1 12,018.4   100.0    4,662.4   10,181.7
31 20074           1,116.6   62.1   600.0 1,763.7          17.8   17.2             9.7 1,6.7 6,260.0 6,.192.8  ,.1  O12,01.4   10o.0    4,662.4   18,12.7
a 2_0- 1e,11.6   62.1   600.0 1,766.7                      17.2   17.2            9.7 1,6687  6,210.0 6,.111.  6,.1 12,018.4   10.0    4,662.4   10,3U8.7
216 313101-100     1,116.    62.    600.0 1,7630.7         17.2   17.8             96.7 1,66.7 6,36.0 6,19112.8 6,6.1 12,012.4   100.0   4,6612.4   10.182.?
64666-11 _U1186    6113   600.0 1,766.7                   17.S   17.8           "9.7  1,6627 0,2e.e 6,11.  6,665.1 3,012.4 2,1110.0    4,661.4   10,3u.7
3m       0.10 4     0.650
p5.6166up to WW0-W we qe.m9
Im _Ma  1W 11              G*               d-
Ps ImSm            3  par so of54p  -.nd Nowem"-  2
^g Wfin    '_       P8' fi   6_66       _ _  1    ~'f*.w



SECCOD MOMA TNEML Po1ER CP0OECT  1/
File: PCR.WK1                                                                   NATIONAL TNEINAL POWER COPX ATIOH LTD.
*7 92                             ~~~~~~~~~---------- -- - - - - -  ---------------
IMdCM  STATENhTS
(in million of Rupes)
Year uring Hacwh 31                                      196o              1966               197               196              1969             1990             19"
ICOH  DESCRIPTIO                                     Forecast   ActuaI Forecast  Actual Forecat  ActuaI Forecat  Actual Foreca t Actual Forecat ActuaI Forecast Actua
Electricity Genratin CGIA)                                       9,248             14,174            15,921            19,378           27,296           3a,s5            43,965
Less: Au  Cops.(&)                                                 932              1,335             1,513             1.845            2,421            3,174            3.659
Electricity Slaes (Cwh)                                 6,551    8,316    9,893   12,839   13,261   14,406   17,883   17,533  24,070   24,875  30,651   35,421  36,016  40,306
Averag  Sulk Tariff (P/"ih) (Genrtion)                     33       37        33      3a       34        40       34       41      35       46      36       52      36       53
Operating levewas:
Electricity Sales                                     2,164    3,077   3,310    4,829    4,510    5,736    6.161    7.201   6.461   11U460  10,970   18,376  13,160   21.254
Tranmission Chares                                                148              284               555              1,176              993            1,691            2,404
Electricity Duty                                        134      111      203      111      272       a7      366       93      494      179     629      294     740      347
other Inc me                                                      102               70                 75               152              116              212              201
Total Operating aeveims                                 2,299    3,438    3,513    5,294    4,782    6,453    6,526    8,622   8,954   12,748  11,599   20,573  13,900   24,207
Operating Expenrss:
Fuel Cost                                               518    1,252      896    1,952    1,259    2,360    1,799    3,165   2,600    5,285   3,557    a.965   4,461    9,760
operation and  aintenance                               329      404      445      483      547       616      729      807     964    1,175   1,180    1,745   1,323    2.105
Depreciation                                            395      265      585      377      694       448     986       579   1,285      912   1,626    1,396   1,873    2X251 
Electricity Duty                                        134       112     203      111      272        87      366       93     494      179     629      294     740      347 f
Others*                                                           10                21                 11                69                8              147              113
Total Operating Expeses                                 1,376    2,042    2,131    2,943    2,T77    3,522    3,880    4,712   5,342    7,559   6,992   12,567   ,397   14,577
Operating Inc  e Before Interest                          922    1,396    1,382    2,350    2,011    2,931    2,647    3,910   3,612    5,189   4,606    8,006   5,503    9,630
Interest Chargeable to Revenue                     665      492    1,045      570    1,422      866    2,022    1,248   2,752    1,791   3,422    2,730  3.510   3,472
Profit before Tax                                         257      904      336    1,781      589    2,065      625    2,662      860   3,398   1,184    5,276   1,993   6,158
Less:Provision for Tax                                                                 1                  1                                  0
Profit after Tax                                          257      904      336    1,780      589    2,064      625    2,662      860    3,398   1,184    5,276   1,993    6.158
Prior Period Incom  (Net)                                          (28)               50                 53               362              (90)              90              851
Net Profit                                                257      875       336    1,830      589    2,118      625    3,024     860    3,308   1,184    5,366   1,993    7,009
Average Net Fixed Assets (Historic)                    16,281   10,957   21,175   14,016   26,808   17,209   35,582   23,856  45,041   35,078  53,332   53,567 57,919   75,482
Rate of Return on Historic Assets (X)                       61       131      7X      171        81      171       7X      161      81      151     9s       151    lOX       131
operating Ratio (X)                                        60X      59s      611      561       581      55s      591      551    6OX       59s     60X      611.   601       60X
*   Includes deferred expenses, preliminary expenses, bonds expenses, rebate to customers and contingencies.
1/  The forecast data are taken fro  the SAR of the Ramagundam Thermal Power Project. However, no material
difference exists with the financial projections presented in the SAR of the Second Korba Power Project.



07-May-92                                       SECOND KORBA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
NATIONAL THERMAL POWER CORPORATION LITD.
SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS
(in milltion of Rupees)
Year ending March 31                                   1985     1985     1986     1986      1987     1987     1988     1988    1989     1989    1990    1990    1991    1991
-- - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - --- - - - - - - -           ... .. .........  .................  ..... . .. . ...  ...... ........  -- - - - - - -    - - - - - - -
SOURCES DESCRIPTION                                Forecast  Actual Forecast  Actual Forecast  Actual Forecast  Actual Forecast Actual Forecast Actual Forecast Actual
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Operating Income before Interest                      922    1,396    1,382    2,350    2,011    2,931    2,647    3,910   3,612    5,189   4,606   8,006   5,503    9,630
Prior Period Income (Met)                               0      (28)       0       50        0       53         0      362       0      (90)      0       90       0      851
Depreciatlon(*)                                       395      265      614      377      694       448      986      579   1,285      912   1,626    1,396   1,873    2,251
Total Internal Cash Ceneration                      1,317    1,632    1,996    2,77    2,705    3,432    3,633    4,851   4,897    6,011   6,232   9,492   7,376   12,732
Equity Contributionr                                  4,694    4,859    4,257   6,808    2,311    5,909          0    6,879            3,682            6,594           12,812
Capital Receipt                                                   26                 0                114                24               87               21              117
Borrowings
... ..  .. .
Loans Contracted                                             4,416             5,731             5,865              4,836           11,972            6,712            5,019
Bonds                                                            0              1,634            4,300              4,394            1,499            4,346            4,000
Total Borrowings                                    3,355    4,416    4,750    7,365    4,594   10,165    5,742    9,230   3,188   13,471       91   11,058            9,019
TOTAL SOURCES                                         9,366   10,933   11,003   16,950    9,610   19,620    9,375   20,984   8,085   23,251   6,323   27,165   7,376   34,680
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Total lInvestmnt                                    8,541   10,011    9,795   14,048    7,802   17,806    6,655   17,630   4,243   19,064   1,306   20,397      484   26,079 *
Debt Service
Interest charoed to Operations                        665      492    1,045      570    1,422      866    2,022    1,248   2,752    1,791   3,422    2,730   3,510    3,472
Amortization of Lons                                    0        -       63         -     217         -      499        -    845       747   1,376    1,087   2,045    1,542
Total Debt Service                                    665      492    1,108      570    1,639      866    2,521    1,248   3,597    2,538   4,799   3,o17   ,SSS    5,015
Increse (Decreoae) In Working Capital                   159      430      101    2,332      168      947       199    2,106    245    1,649      218    2,951   1,337   3,586
Provision for Tea                                         0        0        0         1       0         1        0        0       0        0       0        0       0        0
TOTAL APPLICATION Of FUNDS                            9,366   10,933   11,003   16,950   9,610   19,620    9,375   20,984   8,085   23,251   6,323   27,165   7,376   34,679
Contribution to Construction (Anrual) 2                   6S       7S      8a       -1       12S       91       14X       8x     252      102    932       132    1002      16S
Debt Service Coverag                                   1.98     3.32     1.80     4.87      1.65    3.96      1.44     3.89    1.36     2.37    1.30     2.49    1.33     2.54
........................................
(*) bDpreclation pertains to operations



8t813mw TUDL POm mmrmiaTIN LTD.
*M -
Vw in*dim t"reb 31                                    1965             1966              1967             19'S             1969            1990             t991
BAAS  DESUIPTION                                 Forecast  Actut Forecast  Actual Foreast  Actuat Forecast  Actuat Forecast Actual Forecat Actuat Forecat Actual
.. .. .... .. ....... .......... .. .... .. .--....  -----     ---- -     --- --     --------  -----     -----     -----     ----- -  ------ ---     ---- -----     ------------
ASSETS
Gross Iteck                                       20,531   13,363   23,774   16,047  33.105   20,689  43,003   30,506  S4,295   44,784 62,495   69,972 66,98   92,422
LessD1procatien                                      670     476   1285       903    1,979    1,416   2,966   2,069  4,250   3,066   5,876   4,554   7,749   6,877
Net Fixed Assets In opeation                      19,861   12,887  22,4a9   15,144  31,127  19,273  40,037  28,439 50,046  41,716  56,619  65,418  59,219  85,546
Capitat Works In Progress                           16,149   19.656   22,702   31,069  21,173   44,302   17,933   52,187  10,882   57,062   3,969  52,360          56,039
TOTAL FXED ASSETS                                   36,010   32,S43  4S,191    6,213  52,300  63,575   57,970  80,626 60,92a  96,77   60,606  117,776  S9,219  141,564
Current Assets
Ca hw nd lnar  ltnce                                  11      84       12      448       17      134      22   S,973       27       2      30      291      34     684
Short-tam deposits                                           395               637             1,053              737           4,544            S,364  1,179   S,279
Reclvables                                           192    1.626     293   2,284       396    2,826     544   4,058    746   5,961    967   11,561   1,158   15,102
Inventories                                         205      704      238      940     331    1,322      430   1,742    543   2,639    625   3,632    670   5,414
Lows A Advunes                                               326             1,972            3,642               783            2,614           1,824            2,031
Other Currnt Assts/Debtors                             2      17        2       13        3      148       4      178       4      104      S      125       5      231
Total Current Assets                                  409   3,151       544   6,293       749   9,127    1,000  13,469   1,320   1S,884   1,627  22,797  3,046  26,7W9
Nisc.Capital ExpudItue                                          19                19                16               17              l               19              41
TOTAL ASSETS                                        36,420  35,713   45,735   52,526  53,048   72,718   58,99  94,112  62,248  114,680 62,234  140,594 62,265  170,424
LIMILITIES
Equl ty
share Capitat Issued                              23,659  20,632   27,915   26,685  30,226   32,851  30,226  37,658  30.226  44,073 30,226  49,640  30,226  59,237
sre Deposit                                                  236               990              734             2806                73           1,100            4,314
Retained Earnings                                    315   1,402      652   3,231    1,241    5,463    1,866   a.511   2.727   11.906  3,910   17,293  5,903   24,420
Total Equity                                      23,973  22,270   28,s67  30,906  31,468  39,047  32,092  48,975 32,953  56,052  34,136  68,033 36,130  87,971
Total Long-ter Debt                               12,390   10,364   17,077   17,79   21,454   27,894   26,696  37124 29,041  49,848  27,755  59,619 25,710  67,296
Current Liabilities                                     56   3,061       91   3,891       127   5,n8       179   8,014    255   a 780    344  12,742    426  15,158
Total Debt                                          12.446   13,445   17,168  21,620  21,581   33,671   26,877  45,138  29,296   58,623 28,099  72,561 26,135   82,454
TOTAL EQUITY AM LIAMILITIES                         36,420  35,713   45,735   52,526  53,048   72,718   58,969  94,112  62,248  114,680 62,234  140,594 62,265  170,425
Debt:Equity Ratio                                   34/66    32/68    37/63    36/64   41/59    42/S8    45/55   43/57    47/53   47/53   45/SS  47/53    42/5   43/S5
Current Ratio                                          7.3     1.0      6.0      1.6     5.9      1.6      5.6      1.7    5.2       1.8    4.7      1.8    7.2       1.9
Accen s  9tvcerel (O of das)                            32     184       32      163       32     164       32      177      32      175     32      210      32      233
.. .....................................



