Document of
The World Bank                   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-3091-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
SECOND KORBA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
June 17, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of June 9, 1981)
US$1.00          =      Rs 8.653
Rs 1.00                 US$0.1156
Rs I million            US$115,600
The U.S. Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to
change. Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report
were made at US$1.00 to Rs 8.0, which represents
the projected average exchange rate over the
disbursement period.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CEA  -  Central Electricity Authority
GOI  -  Government of India
NHPC - National Hydro Power Corporation Limited
NTPC - National Thermal Power Corporation Limited
REB  -  Regional Electricity Board
SEB  -  State Electricity Board
kV   -  kilovolt = 1,000 volts
kWh  -  kilowatt-hour = 1,000 watt-hours
MW   -  megawatt = 1,000 kilowatts
km   -  kilometer



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
SECOND KORBA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:        National Thermal Power Corporationi Limited (NTPC).
Amount:             SDR 325.6 million.
(US$400 million equivalent on April 1, 1981)
Terms:              Standard.
On-Lending          From GOI to NTPC, with repayment over 20 years,
Terms:            including 5 years grace, at an interest rate of
10.75% per annum.
Project             Construction of three 500 MW generating units at the Korba
Description:       thermal power station in the State of .Madhya Pradesh,
together with ancillary equipment and related works, and
about 1,100 circuit km of associated 400 kV transmission
lines. The major risk is the possibility of slippage in
the implementation schedule, which could give rise to
delayed comissioning of plant with consequent loss of
revenues. Careful coordination and supervision during
construction and attention to the manufacturers' abilities
to meet delivery schedules should keep implementation
delays to a minimum.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                            (US$ millions)
Items               Local        Foreign       Total
Preliminary Works              0.9            -           0.9
Civil Works                   87.3           0.1         87.4
Electrical and
Mechanical Plant           249.5         260.7        510.2
Coal Handling and
Transportation              14.3           1.9         16.2
Power Transmission            89.4          11.9        101.3
Sub-total                441.4         274.6         716.0
Physical Contingencies        26.4          14.0         40.4
Price Contingencies          273.6         122.7        396.3
Consultant Services &
Studies                      8.1           0.7          8.8
Administration                78.5            -          78.5
Project Cost (excluding
taxes and duties)         828.0         412.0       1,240.0
Taxes and Duties             147.0           -          147.0
Total Project Cost           975.0         412.0      1,387.0
Financing Plan:                                             (US$ millions)
Local       Foreign        Total
IDA                           138.0        262.0         400.0
Federal Republic of
Germany                       -          150.0         150.0
GOI loan and equity           837.0          -           837.0
Total                         975.0        412.0       1,387.0
Estimated                                              (US$ millions)
Disbursements:  IDA FY       FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  FY88  FY89  FY90
Annual       15    35    56   128    83    40    13    20    10
Cumulative  15    50   106   234   317   357   370   390   400
Rate of Return:      15%
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 3397a-IN dated June 3, 1981.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA FOR
THE SECOND KORBA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
1.          I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India in an amount equivalent to SDR 325.6 million
(US$400 million equivalent on April 1, 1981) on standard IDA terms to help
finance a project for the construction of the second stage of the proposed
2,100 MW thermal power station at Korba in Madhya Pradesh. The proceeds of
the credit would be onlent by the Government to the National Thermal Power
Corporation Limited for 20 years, including five years' grace, at an interest
rate of 10.75% per annum. Additional financing for the project, in an amount
equivalent to about US$150 million, will be provided by the Federal Republic
of Germany.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(3401-IN, dated April 15, 1981), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 16, 1981. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of 672 million
(in mid-1980) and an annual per capita income of US$190. Agriculture contin-
ues to dominate India's economy, employing over two-thirds of the labor
force. However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate
livelihood to all those engaged in agricultural activities, especially the
landless or nearly landless who have only an insecure grasp on the means of
existence. The share of agriculture in GDP at factor cost (measured in
1970/71 prices) has declined from 60% in 1950/51 to about 40% in 1978/79.
The share of industry has increased over the same period from 15% to 23%.
But industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the growing labor
force, nor to bring about the substantial economic transformation that has
led to higher productivity and rapid urbanization in some other developing
countries. The urban population was 18% of the total in 1960, and is about
21% now.
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I
and II of the President's Report for the Second National Cooperative
Development Corporation Project (No. P-3408-IN), dated May 1, 1981.



-2-
4.       Economic growth has been slow in the past, averaging about 3.5% per
annum over the past 30 years. Slow growth in agriculture -- 2.5% per annum
over the same period -- has constrained overall growth, not only because of
the high share of agriculture in GDP but also because scarce foreign exchange
has often been required to import food. Industrial value-added has grown
more rapidly, at 5.4% per annum between 1950/51 and 1978/79, but this growth
has not been as high as in many other countries, nor as high as required.
Gross domestic savings more than doubled from 10% of GDP in 1950/51 to 24% in
1978/79. Similarly, gross domestic investment as a fraction of GDP rose from
10% in 1950/51 to just over 24% in 1978/79. Foreign savings have never
financed a large portion of domestic investment: a peak of about 20% was
reached during the early 1960s; by the end of the 1970s, the proportion had
returned to much lower levels. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms. Net external assistance has never
risen above 3% of GDP.
5.      Except during periods of balance of payments crisis, exports have
received relatively little emphasis in India, which has primarily pursued a
strategy of import substitution. The volume growth of exports between
1950/51 and 1978/79 averaged only 3.0 per annum. The volume growth of
imports over the same period has slightly exceeded that of exports. During
the early 1970s, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant
during the 1960s, deteriorated drastically. In response, the Government
introduced many policy measures designed to stimulate exports. The volume of
India's exports grew on average over 10% per annum between 1972 and 1977,
demonstrating that sustained rapid growth was possible. While expanding
world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle East, contributed to this
process, liberalized access to imported inputs, and improvements in incen-
tives designed to increase the profitability of exports played a major role.
Recent Trends
6.        Over the period 1975/76 to 1978/79, growth in real GDP (at factor
cost), agricultural value-added and industrial value-added averaged 4.7%,
2.8% and 7.3% per annum, respectively. These trends represent a marginally
better growth performance than the long-term trends from 1950/51 to 1975/76.
However, GDP declined by about 4.5% in 1979/80 as a result of the drought-
induced decrease in agricultural production and input constraints in other
sectors, bringing recent trends back in line with the long-term picture.
Industrial production stagnated in 1979/80, largely due to shortfalls in the
production of major inputs such as coal, steel and cement, as well as infras-
tructural constraints, notably in power and transportation. As a consequence
of these developments, the remarkable price stability that characterized the
Indian economy after 1975 came to an abrupt end at the close of fiscal year
1978/79. During the spring and summer of 1980 the price index continued to
rise sharply, so that by September it stood at 19.1% above that of the previ-
ous September. Foodgrain prices rose over the summer and fall of 1980 but
more slowly than the drop in 1979/80 production would have suggested so that
in most markets grain prices remained close to the Goverment's ration prices.
Low income groups in urban areas were assured adequate supplies of grain at
stable prices through the public distribution system. The substantial stocks
of foodgrains also provided resources for a large-scale drought relief



-3-
employment program for low income groups in rural areas. In 1980/81, the
economy recovered, aided by a normal monsoon, so that real GDP growth for the
year should be about 7 to 8%. During the summer of 1980, GOI raised prices
of petroleum products and fertilizers, reflecting the growing cost of imports
of these items and the GOI efforts to encourage efficiency in their use.
Recently the growth in prices has slowed so that by January 1981 the whole-
sale price index was 15% above its level a year earlier.
7.        In agriculture the positive results of large investments and
appropriate policies in the past years are becoming increasingly apparent.
The rate of expansion of irrigation has increased significantly from 1.3 mil-
lion ha per year in the early 1970s to about 2.3 million ha in 1978/79. Fer-
tilizer use reached 5.2 million tons of nutrients in 1979/80, more than dou-
ble 1974/75 levels. Over the decade before 1979/80, foodgrain production
grew at about 2.75% per annum -- sufficient to meet consumer demand, to elim-
inate imports (which had averaged nearly 5 million tons per year for the 15
years preceding 1976), and to lower real foodgrain prices for consumers. At
the same time, India was able to build up substantial foodgrain buffer stocks
which made it possible to weather the effects of 1979/80 drought with com-
parative ease, and to export about half a million tons of grain in 1980.
While the management of the foodgrain economy after the drought was a signi-
ficant achievement, the effect of the drought on production re-emphasized the
continued importance of the monsoon in India's agriculture. The need to
expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage the efficient use of
other inputs continues.
8.        As the new decade begins, the Indian economy is shifting from a
situation of resource surplus, which had been a temporary phenomenon of the
late 1970s, to one of resource scarcity. Investment has again overtaken
domestic savings, and the scope for further increases in the latter appears
limited. Marginal savings rates have recently been well above 30% in the
household sector. Future increases in savings will depend largely on
enhanced profitability of public sector enterprises. Impending resource
scarcity is even more apparent in the foreign sector. Between 1975/76 and
1978/79 India's current account deficit had remained comfortably small in
relation both to GDP and to a growing pipeline of aid commitments. This was
primarily due to favorable terms of trade movements and rapidly growing net
invisibles which masked adverse underlying trends in the volume of exports,
the growth of which has slowed since 1977. One area of concern is the
apparent decline in the growth rate of manufactured exports which had contri-
buted much to the export growth of the first half of the decade. A combina-
tion of strong domestic and slack international demand, exacerbated by severe
infrastructural and supply constraints and apparent lessened interest in
export promotion during the resource surplus period were the major causal
factors. Recently, signs of improvement in the availability of power, the
main constraint facing exporters, and the adoption of several new export pol-
icy measures have improved the prospects for accelerating export growth,
though continued attention to both these areas will be required.
9.        In contrast, imports have grown rapidly in volume terms and there
have been important changes in composition. As a result of the accumulation
and maintenance of foodgrain stocks, foodgrain imports -- which had tradi-
tionally been a large item in the balance of payments -- have been eliminated
since 1978 and, for the past few years, India has been a marginal net



-4-
exporter of grain. The rise in other imports, however, has more than offset
this development. Reflecting the impact of the liberalized import policy
adopted by the Government, non-foodgrain imports increased sharply, so that
their level in 1978/79 was over 80% higher than in 1975/76. In large part,
the liberalization in import policy and increase in imports were limited to
raw materials, basic commodities and intermediate goods; most consumer goods
remained banned and capital goods imports were permitted only on a selective
basis. Strong new pressures on the balance of payments have developed during
1980/81. The terms of trade again deteriorated markedly as a consequence of
unexpectedly large increases in petroleum prices, which caused the oil import
bill to increase by over 75% in 1980/81 after doubling the year before.
India's foreign resource deficit as a proportion of GDP reached the unpre-
cedentedly high level of 3.0% in 1980/81. India was able to finance this gap
through a substantial draft drawing on IMF resources (the Trust Fund and Com-
pensatory Financing Facility), and through an increase in aid and a drawdown
in reserves, both of modest proportions. Petroleum imports as a proportion
of merchandise exports now exceed 75%.
Development Prospects
10.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India does have the
capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial
sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large
in absolute terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufac-
turing a wide variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure --
irrigation, railways, telecommunications, the power grid, roads and ports
is extensive compared to many countries, although there is considerable scope
for expansion as well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity.
India is also well-endowed with human resources and with institutional
infrastructure for development. Finally, India has an extensive natural
resource base in terms of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and fer-
rous ores, but also gas and oil). With good economic policies and sufficient
access to foreign savings, India has the capability for managing these con-
siderable resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
11.     The new Indian Government elected in January 1980 formulated a new
Sixth Five-Year Plan for the period 1980-85. The Plan was approved in Febru-
ary 1981. The new Plan continues to assign priority to agriculture and
power. Furthermore, the Plan reflects recent developments in India and in
the world economy which have brought to the surface the need for urgent
action in several areas. These include: (i) expansion of exports and an
investment program directed toward containing the growth of imports in the
face of a deteriorating balance of payments situation; (ii) an investment
program and policy framework for more efficient use and development of energy
sources; (iii) removal of bottlenecks in infrastructure and related con-
straints on production of basic industrial inputs, and (iv) continuing
emphasis on the development of agriculture.
12.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. However, there are signs that, relative to exist-
ing demands, the past programs and policies have led to disproportionally low
growth in certain crucial sectors, namely power, coal, transport services,
steel and cement. Potential output growth in sectors which have benefitted
from large investments in the recent past may not materialize unless these



-5-
input bottlenecks are alleviated.  In the case of coal, steel and cement,
domestic production appears to be clearly justified on grounds of comparative
advantage, indicating an a priori case for policies to promote further
investment.   All these are tradeable commodities.  Although in 1980/81 they
were not imported in sufficient amounts to eliminate the shortages, increased
short-term reliance on imports may be necessary to alleviate slowdowns and
dislocation in using industries. In the case of sectors in which there is no
option to import the final product --power and transportation-- the planning
of capacity expansion becomes even more crucial. Although there is scope for
improvement in the shortrun performance of these sectors, major investments
in balancing and modernization programs as well as in new capacity are essen-
tial for adequate and growth in the medium term. The presence of infrastruc-
tural constraints and shortages of basic industrial inputs demonstrates that
the expansion of industrial output leads to competing claims on scarce
resources with significant implications for public versus private and short
versus long-term investments.
13.     Despite the relatively large investment programs for the development
of domestic energy resources such as coal and hydroelectricity, and the
recent development of offshore petroleum resources, India has not been able
to narrow the gap between its total energy demand and domestic production.
During the past year, India continued to face power and coal shortages.
Growing demand for petroleum products, disrupted production from the Assam
oilfields, and recent oil price increases, have boosted India's oil import
bill to US$7 billion, equivalent to about 78% of total exports of goods.
India is entering the Sixth Plan period with an ambitious energy production
program backed by substantial financial commitment. In the oil sector, GOI
is now accelerating its oil exploration capabilities and is opening up pros-
pective areas for exploration by foreign firms. India is now committed to an
expanded power program that emphasizes exploitation of its large hydro poten-
tial and development of the transmission and distribution system. In the
coal sector, a policy decision in favor of mechanization has been made in
order to achieve more rapid growth of coal production.
14.     Despite the 1979 drought, agricultural policies, development programs
and secular trends all seem favorable for sustaining the past growth rate
during the 1980s. India ended 1980 with grain stocks of about 12 million
tons, without having imported foodgrains during the year. This is partly due
to the bumper crop of 1978/79 and good management of the foodgrain stocks
following the 1979 drought, but also reflects the trends of the last decade
which point to an improvement in foodgrain availability in the economy. In
view of the acceleration in the use of agricultural inputs and the projected
fall in the population growth rate, the long-run prospects for foodgrain sup-
ply and demand balances look favorable. If the efforts to develop agricul-
ture over the past decade are sustained and intensified, as suggested in the
new Plan, persistent shortage seems unlikely, and it is probable that a wide
range of policy options will become much more practical. These options
include a slowly falling real price of foodgrains to increase the affordabil-
ity of foodgrains to low-income families, further rationalization of domestic
markets and prices, foodgrain exports and diversification to the production
of other, higher value crops.
15.     Foreign exchange reserves still provide some cushion that can help
the Government of India in short-term supply management, but this situation



-6-
is likely to be short-lived. Rising import prices and uncertainties in the
prospects for exports and invisible receipts have led to a serious and rapid
deterioration in India's balance of payments prospects.   Reserves were only
marginally higher in March 1980 than the level of a year earlier and, in
terms of import coverage, fell below the 8-month level for the first time
since 1977. A very sharp decline in the reserve level would have occurred in
1980/81 had IMF Trust Fund and Compensatory Financing Facilities amounting to
over US$1 billion not been available to India. At best, India's reserves may
provide a cushion for two more years, and even that depends on improved
export performance, on the maintenance of aid flows and workers' remittances
and on moderation in oil price rises.
16.     India's medium-term development prospects are mixed.  Considerable
progress continues to be made, particularly in agriculture, but the economy
faces a period of difficult adjustments in the coming years. Investments
required to relieve short-term supply constraints must compete with longer-
term programs to accelerate growth and to develop India's considerable physi-
cal and human resources. The balancing of these objectives will place a dif-
ficult burden on those implementing India's Sixth Five-Year Plan. The pri-
mary focus must be on the implementation of appropriate domestic adjustment
policies, although the aid community can and should play an important role in
ensuring that India's efforts do not fail due to inadequate foreign
resources.
17.     The annual population growth rate declined from 2.3% in the late
1960s to about 2% at present and is expected to continue falling to around
1.8% by the first half of the 1990s. Despite the declining trend in the rate
of population increase, a net reproduction rate of one (replacement level)
will be achieved only around the year 2020. At that time, the population of
India is estimated to reach 1.2 billion persons, an increase of about 79%
over the mid-1980 level of 672 million. Family planning has played an impor-
tant role in achieving the fertility decline in the past decade, and the
extent of a further decline will be greatly influenced by the continuation of
a successful official family planning program. The family planning perfor-
mance data for 1978/79 and 1979/80 clearly indicate a comeback from the sharp
decline observed in virtually all major contraceptive methods during 1977/78.
Except for male sterilizations, the number of acceptors for all contraceptive
methods surpassed the 1974/75 levels in 1978/79. While the increase in the
total acceptors of IUD and conventional contraceptives was modest, female
sterilizations increased by about 40% between 1977/78 and 1978/79. Recent
data confirm a secular upward trend in overall performance. For the past
several years the family planning program has emphasized measures that would
yield relatively modest but sustainable results with increased emphasis on
reversible methods.
Beyond the effects of overall economic growth and constrained popula-
growth, the reduction of poverty in India requires special attention to
ways of raising the income and productivity of low-income groups. More than
one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than 80% of the Indian
poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and small farmers.
In addition to having inadequate physical assets, the poor are ill-endowed
with human resources, being disproportionately represented among the illi-
terate, the hungry and the sick. Improvements in the living standards of the
poor will depend to a large extent on the overall growth of the economy,



-7-
mainly on increases in agricultural production and employment, in non-farm
rural employment, and also in employment opportunities in urban areas. These
developments will have to stem largely from market forces which, however, can
be reinforced by appropriate government policies and investment priorities.
The declining trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1979 reflects
such developments. There is also a role for direct government action in fas-
ter implementation of land reform (though the scope for significant reduction
in poverty through redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing
the supply of credit available to small farmers and rural artisans and
finally in broadening the provision of those services which enhance the human
capital of the poor and improve living standards. Many of the latter are
elements of the Minimum Needs Program which has been an integral part of
Indian planning for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in
the expansion of primary education, the extension of rural health facilities
and the provision of secure village water supplies. Innovations such as the
community health volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign,
provide encouraging evidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost pro-
grams can lead to enhanced prospects for India's poor.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 61 loans and 137 development
credits to India totalling US$2,833 million and US$9,180 million (both net of
cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,145 million had been
repaid, and US$4,899 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1981.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
March 31, 1981, totalled US$614 million, representing an increase of about
19% over the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary statement of
disbursements as of March 31, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
20.     Since 1959, IFC has made 19 commitments in India totalling US$110.6
million, of which US$20.8 million has been repaid, US$27.6 million sold and
US$7.5 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$54.7 million, US$46.2 million
represents loans and US$8.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of March 31, 1981, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
21.     In recent years, Bank Group lending has emphasized agriculture.  The
Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor irrigation and
other on-farm investments through agricultural credit operations and in pro-
viding direct support to major and medium irrigation. Marketing, seed
development, agricultural extension, and dairying are other agricultural
activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group has been active
in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector and, through
its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in a wide range
of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial enterprises.
The Bank Group has also been active in supporting infrastructure development
for power, telecommunications, and railways. Family planning, water supply
development, urban investments and the development of oil and natural gas
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.



-8-
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Goverment's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, power, water supply and other infrastructure
sectors remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs, particularly water and
credit for on-farm  investments, will continue to receive emphasis.   Improved
water management and intensification and streamlining of extension systems
form an important institution-building aspect of the Bank Group's program for
the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefit-
ting small farmers. The Bank Group's continuing role in the fertilizer sec-
tor also assists India in the more efficient provision of another key input
in the agricultural growth process. Projects supporting water supply, sewer-
age, urban development and investments in the petroleum sector also form an
integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on those subsectors which have recently emerged as key constraints on
lndia's overall growth, primarily power and transportation.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However,
there is now a need for increased foreign assistance to adjust to an even
greater deterioration in balance of payments anticipated during the 1980s by
augmenting domestic resources and stimulating investment. As in the past,
Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim to include the financ-
ing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods
because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods
industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in
most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors
as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
24.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue
to be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reason-
ably be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for
external support. Therefore, India should be eligible and regarded as
creditworthy for some supplemental Bank lending. The ratio of India's debt
service to the level of exports was 12% in 1978/79 and is projected to remain
below 20% through 1995/96. As of March 31, 1981, outstanding loans to India
held by the Bank totalled US$1,757 million, of which US$936 million remain to
be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$821 million.
25.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and
12% of net disbursements as compared with 46%, 37% and 48%, respectively, in
1979/80. On March 31, 1980, India's outstanding and disbursed external pub-
lic debt was US$15.6 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was US$5.2 bil-
lion or 34% (IDA's US$4.5 billion and IBRD's US$0.7 billion). Because Bank
Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form of IDA credits, debt
service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In 1979/80, about 18.0% of
India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



-9-
PART III - THE POWER SECTOR
Background
26.       The performance of the Indian power supply industry and the economy
as a whole are closely linked, and economic growth and improvement of the
standard of living depend critically on the development of the power sector.
Since alternative sources of energy are not readily available in the amounts
needed, shortage of power has an immediate impact on activities of the economy.
In recent years, energy matters have been receiving top priority consideration
in policy planning of Central and State Governments. Resources allocated to
the power sector have significantly increased during this period, from 16% of
public sector outlays during the Fourth Plan, to 19% in the Fifth Plan and 23%
in the Sixth Plan. While per capita consumption of electricity has been rising
in India, it remains among the lowest in the world at about 122 kWh per annum.
Although investment in the development of the power sector has been emphasized,
demand for power has been outstripping supply. The direct loss of value added
due to power shortages is estimated at about 3% of GDP. 1/
Power Supply and Demand - India-Wide
27.       In the 1950s and 1960s, installed capacity and power generation
managed to keep pace with the nation's demand for power, both growing at an
average annual rate of about 12%. Since 1970, the situation has deteriorated.
Delays in commissioning new power projects, operations and maintenance problems
and insufficient investment under severe budget constraints have led to a
critical situation in which demand for power consistently outstrips supply.
This was exacerbated by below-average monsoon rains (particularly in the early
1970s) which affected hydro-electric power generation, and an unstable coal
supply caused by disruptions in coal mining and transport, as well as the poor
quality of the coal itself. Between 1970/71 and 1974/75, growth in power
generation averaged only 5% annually. The situation has improved considerably
over the period 1975/76 through 1979/80, with growth in both generation and
capacity averaging about 9% annually. This improvement has been brought about
as the result of successive good monsoons in 1975/76 and 1976/77, improved coal
supply, and a concerted effort to improve project implementation, thermal capa-
city utilization and overall power system management. In 1979/80, however,
generation increased by only about 2% in spite of a 7% increase in capacity,
due mainly to lower annual plant availability than normal and longer periods
required for commissioning new plants. Power shortages have persisted in many
parts of the country, particularly in the Eastern Region. Total installed gene-
rating capacity as of March 1980 was just above 31,000 MW, including non-utility
plant. Of this total generating capacity, about 61% was conventional thermal,
36% hydro, and the balance nuclear. Although additional new generation capacity
of about 6% (1,800 MW) is expected to be commissioned in 1980/81, power short-
ages will continue.
1/   India:  Economic Issues in the Power Sector (World Bank Report No.
2335-IN, April 1979).



- 10 -
28.       Industry consumes about 60% of all electricity sold, while agricul-
ture (mainly irrigation) accounts for another 17%. As a result of accelerated
agricultural development programs, there has been a marked growth of power
consumption in the rural areas where more than 80% of India's population live.
The number of electrified villages for example, grew from just over 3,000 in
1950/51 to some 250,000, or over 40% of all the villages in India, by March
1980. During the ten-year period 1980/81-1989/90, new utility generating
capacity is expected to grow at an annual rate of just under 11% to total some
79,000 MW, of which about 46,000 MW (58%) would be thermal, 31,000 MW (40%)
hydro and 1,800 MW (2%) nuclear. The construction of an additional 15,000 km
of 400 kV transmission is planned for this period to distribute the power
output through integrated Regional systems.
Power Supply and Demand - Western Region
29.       In the Western Region, which will be served by the proposed project,
the total installed capacity as of March 1980 was about 7,800 MW, of which
about 72% was thermal, 23% hydro, and 5% nuclear plant. While installed
capacity has grown at about 9% per annum in the period 1970-1980, available
capacity has grown at a rate of only about 5% per annum. Since potential
unconstrained demand has been growing at a higher rate than that of available
capacity, some suppression of demand has been occurring during this period.
Unconstrained peak demand in the Region is expected to grow at about 10% per
annum until 1990, whereas the rate of growth of installed capacity is estimated
at about 11% per annum. As a result, the present estimated overall capacity
shortage of about 15% of potential demand will be reduced to 2-3% by the mid-
1980s, and almost eliminated in the late 1980s, if the ambitious investment
program can be adhered to. Despite this encouraging prediction, the supply/
demand situation in the region will be precariously balanced. The addition
of the proposed project's 1,500 MW by 1988, representing about 13% of regional
peak demand, may make the difference between balance and shortage towards the
end of the decade.
Sector Institutions
30.       The institutional structure of the Indian power sector is complex.
A major reason for this is that, under the Indian Constitution, the respons-
ibility for supplying power is shared between the Central Government and the
State Governments, and full agreement between the Center and the States is
required for the implementation of most actions. With the rapid expansion of
the power sector, there has been an increasing need to coordinate the activ-
ities in the power industry beyond State boundaries, and various agencies have
been established with a view to promoting integrated power development in the
country. The principal agencies in the sector are: (i) the State Electricity
Boards (SEBs); (ii) Regional Electricity Boards (REBs); (iii) the Central
Electricity Authority (CEA); (iv) the two Central power corporations--the
National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) and the National Hydro Power
Corporation (NHPC); and (v) the Rural Electrification Corporation (REC).
31.       State and Regional Electricity Boards.  The SEBs were established by
the State Governments under the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948. Their major
task at the time of establishment was to bring together the small individual,
often independent privately owned power plants and facilities within their



- 11 -
respective States. The SEBs continue to promote the coordinated development of
the generation, supply and distribution of power within their respective States
and to control and regulate other power supply undertakings which are private
licensees. At the present time, the States own or control over 90% of India's
electricity supply facilities. While the SEBs are corporate entities in their
own right and enjoy basic autonomy in the management of their day-to-day
operations, they are under the effective control of their State Governments in
such policy matters as capital investment, finance, tariff changes and person-
nel. As a means of improving collaboration between the SEBs and establishing
power systems on a broader Regional basis, four Regional Electricity Boards
(REBs) were established between 1964 and 1966 to help develop integrated power
systems in their respective Regions, and thus prepare for the transition from
separate power systems at State level to Regional systems and finally to an
interconnected national grid. The chairmanship of each REB is assumed in
rotation by the Chairmen of the SEBs in the Region, and the REBs are staffed
by engineers seconded from the constituent SEBs. At present, the REBs func-
tion in an advisory capacity for coordination of maintenance programs, genera-
tion schedules, interstate power transfer and pricing. The potential role of
the REBs in the light of the progressive integration of Indian power sector
operations is being reviewed by the Government of India (GOI). The SEBs of
Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, and the Electricity Department of the
Union Territory of Goa are the major power supply authorities in the Western
Region and will be the recipients of power from the Korba station.
32.       Central Electricity Authority.  The CEA was set up in 1950 to be
responsible for developing a national policy for power development, and to
coordinate the activities of the various planning agencies involved in elec-
tricity supply. As a result of the amendments to the general provisions of
the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, which became effective in November 1976,
the scope of the CEA's functions was expanded. In addition to the general
responsibility outlined above, CEA was made responsible for the formation
of power development plans, optimization of investments in the power sector,
training of personnel, interconnected system operations, and research and
development. The SEBs are required to submit their investment proposals to
the CEA for technical and economic appraisal. However, with the rapid growth
of the power sector, greater emphasis is now being placed on regional planning,
with the ultimate objective of developing an integrated national planning
system.
33.       NTPC and NHPC.  In order to cope with the persistent inadequacy of
power supply to meet the growing demand, GOI has undertaken to supplement the
efforts of the States by constructing large-scale Centrally-owned thermal power
stations at coal fields and hydro stations in the four Regions, as well as
associated high voltage transmission lines--a step to interconnect the systems
beyond conventional State boundaries. This would lead ultimately to an integ-
rated national power grid. Accordingly, the National Thermal Power Corporation
(NTPC) and the National Hydro Power Corporation (NHPC) were established in
November 1975 under the Companies Act, 1956, as public corporations wholly
owned by GOI, with authority to design, construct, own and operate generating
and associated transmission facilities and supply power in bulk to the States.
The Centrally-owned generating stations, including the Korba plant, are
designed to supplement the States' activities and add new power generation
capacity effectively within the shortest period of time. These stations will



- 12 -
be integrated in the national power system and will supply bulk power to the
States within the Regions in which they are located.
34.       Rural Electrification Corporation.  To help SEBs undertake the
task of rural electrification, the REC was established in 1969 under the
Companies Act, 1956, as a public corporation wholly owned by the Government.
Its main institutional objective is to finance rural electrification schemes
prepared by SEBs throughout India, functioning as a financial intermediary
with technical expertise, and ensuring the efficient on-lending of funds drawn
primarily from GOI. In undertaking the task, REC is directed to coordinate its
lending operations with the activities of other agencies, such as the Agricul-
tural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC), which provide financing
for rural development. Although the amount of REC financial support is small
in relation to total SEB operations in the power sector, REC today assists
more than half of total rural electrification expenditures.
Bank Group Operations in the Power Sector
35.       Since 1954, the Bank has made ten loans to India for power projects
amounting to US$359.5 million and IDA fourteen credits totalling US$1,696
million. Of this amount, US$1,420 million is for generating plant; US$23
million for construction equipment for the Beas hydro-electric project; US$380
million for the provision of high voltage transmission; and US$232 million for
the support of rural electrification schemes. Nine loans and credits for
generating plant, the Beas Project (Credit 89-IN) and the first three transmis-
sion projects (Loan 416-IN and Credits 242-IN and 377-IN) have been completed.
The Fourth Transmission Project (Credit 604-IN) is nearing completion and most
of the credit amount of US$150 million has been committed. The First Singrauli
(Credit 685-IN of April 1977), First Korba (Credit 793-IN of May 1978), and
Third Trombay (Loan 1549-IN of June 1978) Thermal Power Projects are on sche-
dule. The Ramagundam Thermal Power Project (Credit 874-IN and Loan 1648-IN of
February 1979) and the Second Rural Electrification Project (Credit 911-IN of
June 1979) are in the early stages of implementation. The credit for the
Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project (Credit 1027-IN) and the credit/loan
for the first stage of the Farakka Thermal Power Project (Credit 1053-IN and
Loan 1887-IN) were approved in May and June 1980, respectively. For the First
Korba Project, about 75% of the land required for the project has been acquired.
Site work is proceeding on schedule, and much of the structural work associated
with the main power station buildings and the coal handling plant has been
completed. Contracts have been placed for all long delivery items and major
works, and detailed surveys for the transmission lines are in progress.
36.       A project performance audit has been conducted on the Second Power
Transmission Project (Credit 242-IN). The project was considered by the audit
to be successful in assisting the nine beneficiary SEBs in extending their
transmission systems to help meet their growing power requirements. Utiliza-
tion of generating capacity in these SEBs exceeded the appraisal forecast.
Institutional objectives mainly concerned the rehabilitation of the finances
of the SEBs, and this improvement effort was continued under the Third and
Fourth Power Transmission Projects. In 1979/80, seven of the nine SEBs
reached their target rate of return of 9.5%. The audit also highlighted the
difficulties of adequately supervising a project of this nature which con-
sisted of many widely-scattered sub-projects, and the absence of a close



- 13
working relationship with the beneficiary SEBs, which complicated the process
of effecting institutional improvements. With the assumption of increased
responsibilities by the CEA in the power sector, a considerably more effective
relationship with the SEBs is envisaged under the proposed project.
Bank Group Strategy in the Power Sector
37.       The Bank Group has had a continuing dialogue with the Government in
seeking solutions to a number of complex and politically sensitive problems
which have confronted the Indian electricity supply industry since Independence.
The sensitivity of Center-State relations and the political constraints arising
from the fact that electricity supply is within the concurrent jurisdiction of
the Central and State Governments have dictated a policy of seeking progress
through cooperation. More specifically, the Bank Group's main objectives in
its lending operations in the Indian power sector are: (a) accelerating the instal-
lation of generating capacity and promoting measures to improve the technical
levels of operation and maintenance of existing plant; (b) fostering develop-
ment of comprehensive long-range regional and national system plans which would
assure implementation of a least-cost power development program; (c) strength-
ening of sector organization and training; and (d) strengthening of the finances
of the institutions involved in the sector, particularly of the SEBs.
38.       Some noteworthy results have been achieved, which include: (a) amend-
ment of the general provisions of the Electricity (Supply) Act in 1976, to
strengthen the role of the CEA and to authorize the establishment of NTPC and
NHPC; (b) the establishment of the Regional Electricity Boards and later of the
Centrally-owned power companies, which mark the first important steps towards
nationwide power operation; (c) amendments to the financial provisions of the
Electricity (Supply) Act, which provide for the development of SEBs on a more
commercial basis, with the objective of financing from internal sources a
reasonable proportion of their investments; (d) tariff studies by a number of
SEBs with a view to reassessing tariff policies; (e) implementation of action
plans by a number of SEBs, which were designed to improve their financial per-
formance through tariff increases, rationalization of manpower requirements,
improved maintenance management, and the introduction of other cost-effective
measures; (f) satisfactory progress of NTPC's generation/transmission construc-
tion program with Bank Group assistance; and (g) establishment of the Committee
on Power to review all aspects of the power sector (para 41).
39.       Considerable progress has been made in the sector in the recent
past, particularly over the last 2-3 years,and more is projected for the medium
term. Thermal generation increased by about 15% during the period October
1980-March 1981 as compared to the same period of the previous year, while
installed capacity increased by only 6.5%,thus improving capacity utilization.
Power shortages have dropped from about 16% of demand in 1979/80 to an esti-
mated 10% in the current fiscal year.  Hydro power capacity, which has typi-
cally accounted for about 38% of total installed capacity, is expected to grow
from 10,800 MW in 1979/80 to 30,200 MW in 1989/90.  This too will be a com-
mendable achievement in view of the heavy initial investments and long gesta-
tion periods for hydro development.  Central Government involvement in the
power sector has also increased and now represents about 12% of installed
capacity; it is projected to grow to 16% by 1984/85 and to 26% by 1989/90.



- 14 -
Moreover, a major decision has recently been taken by the Cabinet that all
future 400 kv transmission lines will also be Centrally-owned; the Central
Government share in high-voltage transmission is therefore projected to rise
from nil at present to 56% and 62% by 1984/85 and 1989/90, respectively. In
view of the success to date of the Central Government (especially NTPC) in
implementing projects, sectoral targets appear more likely to be met in the
future than they have been in the past. In the financial area, the Government
recognizes that reliable feedback on financial performance requires reform of
the SEBs' accounting practices, and steps to introduce a standardized system
of commercial accounting are now underway. Further improvements will also
necessitate an entirely new approach to financial management by the SEBs,
including the establishment of new financial objectives and policies for their
implementation, and on the evolution of a clear tariff policy.
40.       Two areas of specific concern to the Bank Group in the past have
been the lack of a nationwide long-range plan for power development, and the
weak financial position of some SEBs. A long-range national power development
study designed to prepare a least-cost power development program is now under-
way and is scheduled to be completed by April 1982. During negotiations, a
document detailing the status of preparation of the study and the schedule for
completion of its parts was provided to IDA for review, and is satisfactory.
While there has been considerable improvement in the overall financial perform-
ance of the SEBs during 1978/79 and 1979/80 (para 58), GOI is keen to maintain
the rehabilitation effort and further improve performance through the intro-
duction of financial policies that would enable the SEBs to operate more along
commercial lines and enhance their self-financing capability. Improved
monitoring systems for measuring both the technical and financial performance
of the sector in a more comprehensive and consolidated manner were discussed
during project negotiations. Beginning with fiscal year 1981/82, GOI will
provide annual reports on these aspects of power sector performance.
41.       In 1978 the Indian authorities recognized that all aspects of the
sector needed to be reviewed in depth and that satisfactory solutions had to
be found for outstanding sector development problems. Consequently, GOI
established in November 1978 a high-level Committee on Power under the chair-
manship of V.G. Rajadhyaksha, former Member of the Planning Commission, to
examine all aspects of the power industry and make recommendations for
improvements. The Committee completed its task and submitted its conclusions
to GOI in September 1980. These conclusions refer to all major aspects of the
power sector--power planning, project formulation and implementation, opera-
tion and maintenance, organization and management, finance, financial manage-
ment and tariffs, rural electrification, and research and development.
Implementation of some of the Committee's recommendations is already underway
on those aspects not requiring GOI approval: for example, better planning
procedures and improved operations and maintenance management, such as plant
breakdown and spare parts procurement.  However, other important measures can-
not be implemented without due deliberation by GOI and the State -Governments
and their joint agreement. These include sector development, organization
structure, Central ownership, and sector finances.



- 15 -
42.       The Bank considers that there are a number of areas in which actions
to accelerate improvement are of particularly high priority. These include:
(a) improving the performance of thermal power plants; (b) coordinating power
development with the development of other sectors of the economy; (c) intensify-
ing hydroelectric power development; (d) strengthening the role of the Central
sector in power generation and transmission; and (e) establishing appropriate
financial objectives and policies. The concern of the Bank Group in these
areas is also reflected in the recommendations of the Committee on Power. In
view of the importance of achieving improvements in these high-priority areas
for the successful long-term development of the power sector, GOI and the
Association reached an understanding during negotiations on the need for an
implementation plan and schedule outlining the steps to be taken in each of
the areas towards meeting this objective. Such a plan and schedule will be
prepared by GOI by April 1982, to coincide with the completion of the national
power development study (para 40).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.       The project was appraised in October, 1980 and January/February,
1981. A Staff Appraisal Report is being distributed separately to the Execu-
tive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington in April 1981. The
Government of India was represented by a delegation with Mr. S.C. Jain as
coordinator. A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Description
44.       The proposed project represents the second stage of the development
of the Korba thermal power station in the State of Madhya Pradesh. The first
stage, financed in part under the first Korba Thermal Power Project (Credit
793-IN), and consisting of three 200 MW generating units and associated trans-
mission facilities, is presently under construction with commissioning of the
final unit scheduled for January 1, 1984. The second stage, comprising three
500 MW units, ancillary equipment and related works, together with about 1,100
km of 400 kV transmission lines, will bring the power plant to its final
installed capacity of 2,100 MW by December 1988. The first 500 MW unit is
expected to be commissioned by December 1, 1986, with the commissioning of the
remaining two 500 MW units following at one-year intervals. Bulk power
generated by the plant will be conveyed to SEBs in Gujarat, Maharashtra and
Madhya Pradesh, and the Electricity Department of the Union Territory of Goa.
The principal components of the project include civil works; three 500 MW
turbo-generator units and three 1,725 tonnes-per-hour boilers, complete with
all auxiliaries; ancillary electrical and mechanical equipment; coal handling
and transportation equipment; about 1,400 km of 400 kV transmission lines,
together with associated equipment; and technical assistance.
Project Implementation
45.       The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) will implement the
proposed project over an eight-year period (FY1982-89) as part of its ongoing
power development program. NTPC has a Board of Directors, which presently



- 16 -
consists of six members, some of whom are part time.  A competent and expe-
rienced Chairman and Managing Director was appointed in early 1976 and NTPC
has been making good progress in building up its organization and manpower
since then. As a growing organization, NTPC places special importance on the
training of engineers, supervisors and operating staff as well as managerial
and administrative staff, and is implementing an acceptable training program
covering spheres of activity such as planning, design, construction and
operations start-up.
46.       A master plan for project implementation has been prepared by NTPC.
Preparatory civil works have commenced at the plant site. The detailed
engineering and design work carried out for the ongoing Bank Group-assisted
thermal power development is largely applicable to the proposed project. NTPC
has developed comprehensive project management systems, including program
coordination and supervision of construction of the power stations, and has
already appointed consultants to review these systems and their initial imple-
mentation. In addition, consultants with broad experience in major construc-
tion programs of this nature will be appointed to review equipment specifica-
tions and basic engineering and design aspects of the project, and provide
assistance in the more complex design areas (Section 2.02 of Project Agreement).
Engineering consultants will also carry out system studies to determine the
extent of the controls required to accommodate "overvoltages" in the trans-
mission network under various operational conditions. The total engineering
consultancy requirements are estimated at about 80 man-months, costing approxi-
mately US$0.8 million. Supervisory services for erection and commissioning of
the main equipment, such as turbo-alternator units and steam generators, will
be provided by the manufacturers of the equipment.
47.       Large reserves of coal are available from the Gevra open cast mines
of the Kusmunda Block close to the Korba plant. The coal requirements of the
power plant, amounting to about 7.8 million tons annually at full development,
will be met primarily by the Kusmunda II mine, an ongoing project approved by
GOI. The Kusmunda II mine will provide about 5 million tons of coal annually,
the balance of 2.8 million tons being provided from a planned expansion of the
Gevra mine. The Government will take all necessary steps to ensure adequate
coal supplies for the final installed capacity of the Korba plant (Section 3.04
of Development Credit Agreement). No problem is foreseen with regard to the
availability of adequate quantities for the proposed thermal power station.
Cooling water arrangements are satisfactory.
48.       In line with NTPC's other Bank Group-assisted thermal power projects,
GOI will allocate at least 85% of the power output of the proposed project to
the States in the region in which the project is located (Section 3.05 of
Project Agreement); the remaining 15% would be sold in accordance with priori-
ties to be determined by CEA to States with the greatest need. Accordingly,
GOI has obtained undertakings from the recipient Western Region SEBs in the
States of Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, duly endorsed by their
State Governments, to purchase at least 85% of the output from the final
installed capacity of the Korba plant. A similar undertaking from the Union
Territory of Goa will be made available shortly.



- 17 -
49.       As in previous Bank Group loans and credits to NTPC, NTPC has under-
taken to sell the project's output of power under bulk supply contracts with
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.05 of Project
Agreement). NTPC intends to complete all the necessary commercial arrangements
prior to the sale of energy from each power station. Accordingly, GOI and
NTPC will provide to the Association a final draft of the bulk contract for
the sale of energy from the Korba station by July 1, 1982, about six months
before the first sales from that station are made.
50.       Adequate measures will be taken to minimize potential adverse
ecological effects of the project in accordance with environmental quality
standards prescribed by the National Committee on Environmental Planning and
Coordination (Section 2.09 of Project Agreement). The measures include stack
emission control by electrostatic precipitators, appropriate ash disposal,
and effluent neutralization and discharge facilities. The approval of the
Committee for the final installed capacity of 2,100 MW has been obtained, and
appropriate occupational safety standards will be strictly enforced.
Project Costs and Financing
51.       The total cost of the 2,100 MW Korba power station development
program, including associated transmission facilities, duties and taxes, and
interest during construction, is estimated at US$2.1 billion. The project
cost, including contingencies but excluding about US$147 million equivalent in
taxes and duties, is estimated at US$1,240 million equivalent, of which about
US$412 million represents the foreign exchange costs. Interest during con-
struction adds about US$91 million to the financing required. The proposed
credit of US$400 million would finance about 32% of the total project costs
net of taxes and duties. About US$262 million of the credit would be used
to finance about 64% of the total foreign exchange cost of US$412 million.
The Federal Republic of Germany would provide about US$150 million equivalent
towards financing the three 500 MW turbo-generator units and associated
equipment. This amount would finance the balance of the foreign exchange
costs, or about 12% of the total project costs net of taxes and duties. The
balance of the funds required, aggregating about US$928 million equivalent and
including about US$91 million interest during construction, would be provided
by GOI in the form of loans and equity share capital.
52.       The proceeds of the credit will be onlent to NTPC under a subsi-
diary loan agreement to be entered into between GOT and NTPC. Execution of
the subsidiary loan agreement is a condition of effectiveness for the credit
(Section 5.01 of the Development Credit Agreement). The funds will be chan-
nelled through GOI to NTPC at an interest rate of 10.75% per annum with
repayment over 20 years, including five years' grace. This interest rate
is the standard rate currently used by GOI in lending to industrial and
commercial undertakings in the public sector. The exchange risk will be borne
by the Government. Inflation in India over the past five years has averaged
less than 8% per annum. The average annual inflation rate over the next five
years is not expected to exceed 8%. The onlending rate of 10.75% per annum to
NTPC would therefore be positive in real terms.



- 18 -
NTPC Finances
53.       NTPC is currently in the fifth year of an investment program in
which it expects to construct and put on stream, with Bank Group assistance,
four large-scale thermal power stations with an aggregate generating capacity
of 8,300 MW (three 2,100 MW stations--at Korba in Madhya Pradesh, at Ramagundam
in Andhra Pradesh, and at Farakka in West Bengal--together with one 2,000 MW
station at Singrauli in Uttar Pradesh). In addition, about 7,000 km of 400
kV transmission lines are slated for construction. As a result of the resched-
uling and expansion of the construction program, the Government's investment
in this development has undergone continuous review during the past five years.
The investment program has been extended by three years through 1990/91 and
increased by about US$3,215 million to about US$8,340 million equivalent.
This expansion will accommodate an additional 1,000 MW (two 500 MW units) of
generating capacity at Farakka, additional transmission facilities at Singrauli,
Ramagundam and Farakka, the rescheduling of commissioning dates for individual
generating plants, and expected increases in equipment base prices and in
price escalation. Finance for the increased investment program will come from
NTPC's increased internal resources accruing during the three-year period of
the extended construction program, and from GOI in the form of long-term loans
and equity share capital.
54.       NTPC is expected to commence earning revenues in February 1982 when
commissioning of the first 200 MW generating unit under the First Singrauli
project (Credit 685-IN) is scheduled. As generating capacity increases,
NTPC's annual revenue is expected to increase at a faster rate than its
operating expenses and produce rates of return on the capital base rising
gradually to reach 9.5% by 1990/91 and about 11.8% by 1993/94. Under previous
power projects, NTPC was expected to attain a rate of return of 9.5% by
1988/89. However, as a result of the rescheduling of NTPC's construction
program since the appraisal of the First Korba Thermal Power Project in 1977,
total sales of electricity in 1988/89 would amount to only about 60% of final
output. Since it would be unrealistic to expect that the agreed rate of
return would be achieved on the basis of such a low sales volume, a two-year
extension of the target year to 1990/91 was agreed during negotiations, to
enable a sales output of about 90% of the maximum attainable sales to be
achieved. Accordingly, NTPC will achieve in 1990/91, and maintain thereafter,
a rate of return of not less than 9.5% on the cost of the average net fixed
assets in service, and set tariffs from the time of commissioning of its first
200 MW generating unit at the Singrauli thermal power station at levels not
lower than those estimated to be required to meet this target (Section 4.03 of
Project Agreement). This would result in lower returns in the earlier years,
but in view of the high initial capital investment in the early stages of
NTPC's power development and the time involved in commissioning generating
capacity, this approach to setting the tariff and reaching the target rate of
return by 1990/91 is appropriate. The extension of the target year will also
apply to previous Agreements with NTPC; these are being suitably amended.
55.       Projected annual revenues for each year from 1981/82 through 1990/91
are based on a forecast 1991 average bulk supply price for power of 31.7 paise
(US cents 4.0) per kWh, excluding fuel surcharge. This price level compares
with 29.1 paise (US cents 3.6) per kWh calculated at the last revision of the



- 19 -
investment program in March 1980 for the appraisal of the Farakka project
(Credit 1053-IN/Loan 1887-IN), and based on a qualifying rate of return year
of 1988/89. Minor losses in 1981/82 and 1982/83 are anticipated, but these
are acceptable as part of NTPC's development program. The shortfall of funds
during these two years will be financed from equity capital provided by GOI.
NTPC will become profitable in 1983/84 and earnings will rise rapidly there-
after, following the rapid commissioning of plant from 1983/84 through 1990/91.
56.       The overall investment cost for the years 1976/77 through 1990/91
is estimated to amount to about US$8,340 million equivalent. The Government
will provide funds, through a combination of long-term borrowing and equity
capital, in amounts such that NTPC's debt/equity ratio will not exceed 1:1.
NTPC will inform the Association of any proposal to modify existing limita-
tions on its borrowing powers prior to its consideration by NTPC's share-
holders (Section 3.03 of the Project Agreement).
57.       NTPC's capitalization as of March 31, 1982, when NTPC begins to
earn revenues, is expected to be about US$1,488 million equivalent, divided
between GOI loans (including the onlending of Bank Group finance) and equity
capital in a ratio of 19/81. In March 1989, after the completion of the
proposed project, total capitalization will be about US$7,718 million, with
a debt/equity ratio of 46/54. By March 1991, following the commissioning of
the last generating unit in the investment program, capitalization will have
risen to about US$7,839 million, with a debt/equity ratio of 40/60. NTPC's
authorized share capital will be raised progressively during this period
from a current level of about US$1,000 million equivalent to US$3,875 million
in 1986/87.
Financial Performance of SEBs
58.       The Bank Group has sought under previous lending operations that
the SEBs improve their performance to the extent of achieving an annual rate
of return of 9.5%. While the financial performance of some SEBs in achiev-
ing this rate of return has been marginal in the past, considerable overall
improvement has been made in recent years. In 1979/80, 13 SEBs (out of a
total of 16 major SEBs) reached or exceeded the target rate of return, com-
pared with 6 in 1977/78. The implementation of action programs designed to
restore or maintain the target rates of return has proved effective in most
cases. Overall, the SEBs performance for 1980/81 is expected to have been
maintained at the 1979/80 level.
59.       Special attention was given during appraisal to the SEBs of the
Western Region which will be the recipients of the Korba power output. The
Western Region comprises the States of Gujarat, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh,
and the Union Territory of Goa. Five year projections through 1984/85 prepared
by CEA indicate that the 9.5% rate of return for the SEBs in these States
should be either maintained or improved, while returns of between 12%-13.5%
should be attained by the inclusion of State electricity duties and Central
excise taxes paid by the consumer.



- 20 -
Procurement and Disbursement
60.       All equipment financed under the proposed credit will be procured
through international competitive bidding in accordance with the Association's
guidelines. Indian manufacturers competing under international competitive
bidding will be granted a preference margin of 15% or the current rate of
import duty, whichever is less. It is expected that local manufacturers of
equipment and machinery will submit the lowest conforming bids for most of
the items financed under the credit. All work not financed from the proposed
credit or from the expected loan from Germany will be subject to NTPC's pro-
curement procedures, which are satisfactory. The proceeds of the credit will
be disbursed over a nine-year period (FY1982-90) against 100% of the c.i.f. or
ex-factory cost of equipment items and 100% of the cost of technical advisory
services by consultants.
Project Justification and Risks
61.       The proposed project is justified as the least-cost solution to
meet part of the projected base load demand in the Western Region from
1986/87 onwards. The Korba development offers economies of scale and of
relatively low fuel costs due to its location at the coal pithead. Compared
to the only practical alternative of smaller coal-fired stations that would
be installed by individual SEBs in the absence of the project, the present
value of the cost stream of the proposed project is lowest at any discount
rate. The economic rate of return of the project, using tariff revenues and
quantifiable consumers' surplus as benefit proxies for consumers' willingness
to pay for continuous power supply, is 15%. This must be regarded as well
below the true economic rate of return on the proposed expansion of power
generation capacity, since additional benefits expected from the project but
whose quantification is difficult--for example, the maintenance of industrial,
agricultural and commercial output made possible by the reduction in power
shortages--are not included.
62.       Project risks are no greater than can normally be expected with
operations of this type. The principal risk is the possibility of schedule
slippage which could give rise to delays in the commissioning of plant and a
consequent loss of revenues. Project implementation progress will be closely
monitored and construction carefully coordinated and supervised. Particular
attention will be paid to the ability of manufacturers to meet the required
delivery schedules. The use of experienced consultants by NTPC should also
help minimize engineering and design problems, and the fact that a number of
large generating units will have been in operation for some years by the
time the project is commissioned should reduce the possibility of operational
difficulties during start-up and the early stages of operation.



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and NTPC,
and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section
l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
64.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between India and
NTPC has been made an additional condition of credit effectiveness (Section
5.01 of the Development Credit Agreement).
65.       1 am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
June 17, 1981






ANNEX I
Page i of 5
l?lDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEWAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. RM. )                          ~MST RECENT ESTIMATE-
TOTAL           3287.6
AGRICULTURAL    1824.0                                MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /A ESTIMATE lb  ASIA S PACIFIC           ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (USO)                  60.0        D00. 0    190.0             212.4                 1114.7
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(XILOGRAMS OF COAL. EIIVALENT)     10o.0g      141. OI    176.0jc           166.0                  842.4
POPULATION AND VIIAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    434.9       547.6     643.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OP TOTAL) 17.9        19.7      21.7               20.N                   39.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     974.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      1645.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                      132.0       167.0    196.0               193.2                  376.1
PER SQ. W(M. AGRICULTURAL LAND    247.0      308.0    353.0               409.6                 2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         40.0        42.5      41.4               42.0                   40.4
15-64 YRS.                         56.5        54.6      55.6               55.0                   56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.5         7.9       3.0                3.0                    3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAI.                             1.9         2.5       2.0                2.2                    2. 4
IRBAN                              2. 5Ld      3.33      3.3                3.9                    4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    43.0         40.0      35.0               37.4                   28.7
CRUDE DEATH SATE (PER THOUSAND)     21.0        17.0       14.0              14.6                    7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3. 2        2. 9      2.4                2.6                    1. 9
FAHILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)     64.0      3782.0   4714.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         12.0       16.9              15.6                   39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          98.0       102.0    103.0               101.4                  116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQOIREMENTS)                   93.0        92.0      91.0               92.4                  108.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          52.0        51.0      50. 0              49.8                   60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       17.0        15.0       13.0              12.0                   18.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     28.0        22.0       18.0              17.9                    5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    43.0        48.0      51.0               53.8                   63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             *-       134.0        ..                ..                    52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               *         17.0      33.0               30.2                   42. 4
URBAN                               *      60.0         83.0               66.0                   62.1
RURAL                               *          6.0      20.0               20.0                   29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               *         18. 0     20.0               17.7                   52.8
URBAN                                         85.0      87.0               71.3                   71. 1
RURAL                                          1.0       2.0                ..                    42. 4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          5800. 0/e    4590.0    3617.0            6322.7                 4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     9630. O/e   5220.0    5675.0             9459.0                 2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2149.(0/f    1629.0    1289.0            1758.4                  819.4
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ADHISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..                ..                    28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF NOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.2          *-       5.2
URBAN                              5.2          *        4.8
RURAL                              5.2          ..       5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2. 6        2.8
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF UWEIULINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
UTBAN                               * 
RURAL



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INiDIA - SOCIAL 1NDICATORS DATA SIIEET
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEICITFlt AVFECES
- MOST RFCENT EST
MIST RECENT        LOH. INCOME            MIDDLE I1CCHE
1960  lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE L/   ASIA 6 PACIFIC             ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  61.0         72.0      80.0               80.9                    98.6
HALE                  80. 0        87.0      95. 0               94.3                   99.2
FE!IALE               40. 0        55.0      64.0               66. 7                   97. 7
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  20. 0       29.0       28.0               26.6                    55.5
NALE                  30.0         39.0      38.0               34.8                    60.7
FEMALE                10.0         17.0      18.0               18.2                    49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SYCONDARY)   8.0            6. 0/R     *                 9. 9                   13.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             29.0        40.0       42. 0              41.1                    34. 6
SECONDARY                           16.0        17.0         ..               20.5                    28.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         28.0        33.0       36.0               40.9                    85.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0. 7        1.0        1.3                1.8                     9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           5.0        21.0       24.0               25.8                   118.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..         0.1        0. 5               2.4                    39.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   11.0         16.0      16.0               13.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0            6. 3      3. 8                ..                     4. 9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TNOUSANIDS)   119761.4    220670.5  252235.8
FEKALE (PERCENT)                    31. 3       32.6       32.0               29.4                    36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               74.0         74.0      74.0               70.5                    51.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  11.0        11.0       11.0               11.6                    21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 43.0        40.2       39.2               37.9                    39.1
KALE                                  57.1         52.3      51.3                51.3                   48.5
FEMALE                                27.9        27.1       26.2               23.7                    29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0          1.1       1. 1                1.2                    1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7          26.3h        ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7          48.9/1.
LoWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1           6. 7/h
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6          17.2/h
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..       88.0              107.8
RURAL                                 ..          ..       76.0               86.5                   192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..                 ..                   182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      40. 7              46.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..      47.9               51.7                    33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/    The group averages 'or enrF indicator are population-weighted arithnetic means.  Coverage of countries
uiorn the Indicators depends on availability of data and Is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
end 1971; and for host Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Solid fuel conversion factors revised, L  1951-60;  /e 1962;  If 1958; A  1967;  /h 1964-65.
Most recent estimate of CNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
PP110IN7T01S OF SOCIAL OtISCATOIOS
aotoa: Alti-sor   the d.Ir are droe   too  -o.soe  goooroly Jodgad thr rear oeth-rit.tir  co   aiel.to eor   .1  .0 hora d th.r rhy -y  -t ho tafe-
-ci.aL11  cowe-bl. bace..-ofrho_10fth of atedarird d.fieltoo.  ta-                 reOerd  = by dliforat ooera IL               olcta   h   at.hLdaeee  
th.a.. oafi t  dectbaorartofataitdo  iodic-   Itrd., tad th.rec-rte   oreat  flJer dift-ae . barre  cortrteo
Therfoat  gop   r   1  th. .m-  -ortr  goo  of thO .. arlac   -tovr  sad (if A trinity  Lratc   ith ereewhe  higer  -van. Lfoe. thee th   -tLr  grow
of the aebact toraty  tooorptfor "CepieL.  Sorpie 011 t.opotra  troo...p rher. "Itiddl. lace   Mooth Aftica  ad Mldd. leet" It thor  hee  of .rwr
.oulo-coltrrltfflottt.r .    oh. rrf-r.c tro.p dat t.t   -S.eg. Art  oPolet  weighted eriaeti-tt    -   for teh I"dtt-tor                   thn rely          at
I.t.t half of the .t.r. Ill. to L 5rop h.. date for that itdI.t-t    Sect the  -orag    f tortrit..~                 the iodtcOtrv  dePade: *  t        -he    L er lt? af
dot  ae  L. sot  aifOow. tertlob  -lt be -erotted Lt. ralatiat everett  of t-  irdilctar to teother.  Thea.  -rorga  art rely  -af.u  L.ora    t    a
of  -o tid-t-oo  at a tit  .-OS the oaetr  red referrer  gro..
LAND AMI  (thotadaqh.                                                                        fg4l4po.Weg   Palelr  dIrtie   by                          o  OCpettae Pbg-
Totel - Tott1 ...f..  ....or. ob prlt.ig 1rd tr Aoted Salted rota                             iltealfodree.d=ce  .rbrel at -Iw .UyO IsowL.
Aarl-tel...el - retieta of egrice1tor..l ere  teed toworerily or pareertly                 Pooletlre Pt   .rS.Pera   - PepeLtire dirtid" by  .Nb- at PreLnItio
for cro P., pertoree. -erht sad kitobte gerder or to IL. f.  -r; 1977 dat.                 te. t_d f:me. Sfd_tat         - ero .. retirl NOL.            Re asistsbb   r
PO PU  IA?ITA (US0) - 19W per ..Pit Iatlte-tta  etA Iroa  aerht pOItat,. ..I                   ehe   e   oa)   ita    yterreptr                          a   eellh
colettd by .me cocooior -'thod e  Wo-ld fLoa   Ata   1977-79 b-tL.): 1960,                   aveible La prhllo   -       r tatlt.  bbo itar i  masatl          Nd5l 
ig970. tAd  1979 date.                                                                       hehilitate   Oetare.  IrePital  er  aattghbal               P. pinly   td
by .t laat  -pbyeltf.  Btsilt.atporio   -omOely   teh
500GY CtiSWteTISI PiR CAPITA - ,AereL  -teotlor of                   -mrte Sary (caI             e.-  err artai..aa.    oe hI eltog.   vae   tolei bwh
tad 'ixoete. pto..   eaoro1 gee "ad hydtt-. -.1ole  aed saotbh.tl elec-                       caotera ret par tly eteffod by L vF.Iri-  (bet by  T               o .d m aia
ttoitiy) to kilos.-a  of teal eq.tlve t yet cpit.; 196f. 197f. ted 1978                      esor. eLiefa. ace.) ebich rOfow Sv-Pasbome              =d e 
AetO.                                                                 ha~~~~~~~~~~~~lited  rIw   o at lot  ftclltlee.  VWr atMitls     pa,gSm  giSm   1o-
POPULATION ANP VITAL STATISTICS                                                                 wop            aflltelo  rer.l  0rpit. rd   wico   w   tette1"u   NNO.
Tot.1Po       ltia iOd-YTea   WLLot  - At of July 1; 1960, 1970. cad 1979                      -     S     :A -iepayhtpgi-g    To9tel osdo  of1. .iloia morere  .tehele
foe  Po  .l.,.  trct of  -.Ie) - Rti. of  rbea to Octal popa.tiow;
diff-rret daflritioae of  rbre oraee rep  ff.ot teperability of det.                   inuarG
mecotor;1960, 1970. co  1978 dcta.                                              A-W..e Si.. of o-ebold Ioao  pe    ...tohld) -ttl   o..w
Poerletota Pot         Gtl..ettiort         P.j.ti.._.b.d     180                     A bh-."Iod oa s  of L gV,.p of faiVidota   rh   hr  It'd" wor
Porl.l,o   t  Vto  00  -  orao  pooltio  polttlaccr0beadce  00      ed thic bait mole.  A bo-rde  or lodtrre  or a, ret he tooliAd So
tatel popoletioe by AN. red tea cod tholo octlity tW  fertIlity .tOt.t                   the hoeaheld for otetltlotil poop....
Prol.totto  parmettot for  Itortlity ootae oerot. rf trbor  lerele  ea                   vrt   ihro   rao    r   ae-001ohp   e  rl A -.Pa                              -
ire lif. a epactery .L birth ieor-eca  with tontryr. per c.pit. itcot                    he  ofpreL potro   Ia e   or           ".eotcee   ttpa    att
Levl  a   aa,life .rPeoteecy atebilietg  s773yrr.   b Lttt                             Ad-olieta  r..p  ..y    weioarcod    a-oweseeeor
moac  for f.orliyrt  cltho   brtirl                     -,.ai   declir. to              oacoopird porto.
f-titlittyot-ditg  to Lttot  leve  Lod peat ftallY plotato  p.rfrro-c.                 Acoa.e to gl-cotritO  er-rto   rIlC)-ttl   r..w    OO 
tech tootry L. thor eatgard o.o  tha . ar  otoitti-t  of rert.lit,                         rvoisl  rltawt  *lofrotyS  lregqere.  tpoeet
tad fatit   rotfrpoatr    eptt                                                            f totel. othe. etd r-1e drlliet   eaetiay
Stctoer  erlett  - 00eZ           tlar    eoelttreI  ea growth  Lec.
the birth rare La aqoel to tbr deah rLLe, ed alto the eg   trooot  I-                   CTIe
otlrtoc-tArt.  Thie ia tohiavad ot1y of ta  frilitry rate. drclire to                  Ailtoad tE ..llaeetgotl.
the ralt -et  ea  of catctea  raprodoottr  rote. a-  rEtb S-.rctfe                       Frimar   abol-  total.  el. etd tftet   G-Oe  tota, tel  ted ftla
ofeerrplace    telotly.T. attotypopeletico .1. yea                                    -totoet of eli aWe at tho Poter I,Ia  atprtteeI                    fraort
e.r1=td or tThe healrf tha  oiot  ohocritt    f the  poplctiot                             pLIt cho-o   oplto                   eaoaly          P.itt  ohldt"   tee  h..ll
ir tht y.tr 2000,..cd the rat. of dtoliae of fmotlity Itat  to roplect-                      era- h bot    - adeea   for dtiftoe  la yh at  raaf bidreosd fer1
Rent ltvr.                                                                                  ettoleot    avra   dtto   eclotw,rtt   WPtn
Trat!titoeco   rateletie .   reAc.hed - Th. Year Wbt et.tiotary popolotica                et            thoc-t totppi.erbar   rthor  rho- ofica   ...ao  tsr.P.
.L.. bce bore r .ahd.                                                                    lattod,ry  Iteo  - total. -l. red fmeLa - lowoted at thova  amotitr
D-uoto   laity                                                                            adotoroorea                       -tetferyear.of tppttd Prie,,-    eOotie
Per ar. ho. - Mid-yet popolOtior pet eqoer  kilortot (100 hootote) of                         yro-ldaa   -.rIr. rocttatel-., or t_eb.  tr_.ai   i_te .tro a     too pept
toelOta                 lea-Cr-e.   b                .,.1I1.I11d..lly of 12 to 17 y..rr of ta.; c8-1oi.o   ree.ar   meal
Prole   w              Ae;tt -ee  prtat  - Childrre (0-IA  yoo...   rre-aa(15-                taolrde  tahe tel. em       tl. . orrt           V paim   ebio  aperta  tep
AItk y Ar.)  coSUiN    6  ye.cdool  rpteea   o  t-arpP                                         dretly or c.a dpar-teet  of tactodety teetitottoa.
latit; 1960  1970. ta'd 1978 deta..                                                       Pre-teho   aOe-   t .   n  reftc     Ttl  tdtt  tolid1
P.MIStilob Gfowh Rot.  errt      oo   -              1Aaa  .tteh retra of totaltA                ritytd  oadr .1re-r  dido   by-                 aarfOmdo  t 
~nar popololorta f Or195;!0,1960-7. cd 1970-78.                                         terreepoedior og     e
Poerlelow  Orwth Pt. frrotacl- erh.lb   - A-'Ie growt  Ietaa of orhe  P.P-~         Adult lit.rac    r         -e rrot  - Lirt..t. adelte (bla to read ted write)
Cleetioa  for 1910-60. I 19    t)7.;ad 178-7.                                                  AP  eP-ocS.ag       tt 00 elAdot Popol.tt.  aged 15 y-rr  wivt
Cd. iribt late  fea  thoroeed  - A-erl 11i. birth. par thr....d of old-y.ec
p.pol.trir; 1960. 1970. aed 1978 data.                                                 Cint.Tlioe
Credo  oath mote! fre  thortdl 9- A-aoel dthtb  pa.tShar.ad of eld-y-o                      Ptteteee  Cr..fe   hwtdrclte)-peaettt    rw    ne
ppletlre  1960., 1970. ted 1975 dae                                                       oeaa1le-tergtpror.ecaa    ttOe    er ted
Irree teOrOdoOtIcO  Pate-Avoto~~S. r.00t of deAbto.ra a  a   ill bret It             olll 1taryvabolo.I
-a tro   apootlrpecOod if eho .oP-i-.oe   ptereg-ptfit 0 c                              WdrtrivrL.ttocedeelclr   All typ.o   eeveetori
v  iltLoa;crly0l.-ereaer   eltt  100b90ted17.                                                hocdctt   toIetlpbi                  theotAod of prprletio;  -eltda  atli-
Pal, Peoist-  coator.   atol  throcde  -  toacit,r  o  acopora                     teeodrarivra  a  oraria rd t  yra h. r-tttA-te.d  tdl .
o.f hlrb-cohotrolG deolte   radr  atoa  Of aetiroo  f elly piaaain  prtrae.                  are 1affect;idata fot It...at yaera my ret ha oafahl. ee.  ea
Pell  ('J.tl.   _ larr  Itort of.corid trat  - Paroretta of atoied                         cocatrira ebo1ahad  li-eatg.
wrw  of cblld-boovl.S age (11-66 "eore  who roe hith-l-totol d-oi..a tO                  TV tecaoa.. C..ea thareead toaoLorto) - TY  ervr  for braatae  to
eli ter ld .oo   it-  ace  csa StP.                                                         etrerel poblic per thoretd pepoltire; eacloda  telicmad TV  oawr
I.oot_ttiaa .ad it Y yArret  reltei             of TV ret. en  to   tea.
P000) ADS NUTRITIONI8...r  i..to
I.Ad   of Food P-dodtior pro  Cuite (1969-71'410) - icd.. of pet - Ipte oteta                 aeaeof Cd.lrtlte   fa   hreBa.ltjs     M                    h         w     tI
rdoioof11food omeilta..  Productior              ..lor  ...d ta  food cod         li-itOo  daotad pf.aerily to         .  . redig-wearl   -o   It to.L  teId.-bd
Lao   elte  yaer baria.  Corditto. corr prSaooy trod. (e.g. -rtorra                        to he 'dolly" if It  ppee-  at lecti foot tise  c wee..m                  o
toateed of agtwhither:.odibl. .od ...et t.          o .trlret   ri:.. tfft ta  td        110am  Actua  Actaoda-  Pro  Cerlt. ret Y-e  - teerd retee ro
t.... .r .eladad).  AStitSAge p..dootti.  of each  -octry Ia   ..er  05rcaeld tdtit hoyar btldotedLite t  drive-to  uia
-1lOt  -verg. p.odrt.     ptewiht;16-1   90.ed17   oe                                    cod tbila dtIta
Par dey.  Aveileble  trpliaaprt . p     Lueprltodtco  peoto.  to"pLtta-"Y    t         Tait) LAbrp         (thoretdo)     tcstlclyeti-e perc. Ilecledo
irpot. tcd -eraa  is  -st.~ at arpyilta reo1oda eril food, a-da.                      em    ooara   e.lydbtrceltboelt,aeae.oo
qtrettt       ad Le  re  pootoag, eAd I..... Ls distribatio.  Rcqo1r-                    tefotitioo. Lc -enor. t.-orrMLr eoe rt              ba    960. 1970 -
cart. coca attSoeitd ~by PAt bated ur phyalrlosirtl attdt tar reaO  -tt-            1978 dotr.
city edatth .... idars.        etoerii taratrra   body retjhtt,..                      1-Vmla( -rt)  - P         ,l lrbor flrte ca per-to g   50 Ita,, labefr.
ted twa. dttoboto  of  popetio... cad'. elirI     10 "r.tst for ret t                                        t    U~~jooo)-Lbot force is ferola. foteatty  h-tts ted
Poehl   ee;16-61. 170  eod 1977 dtt.                                                      f tablet ce Pa-rotog. of totr1 lbhocrrr  1900. 1970 -A 1978  aa
Pet oerltt eacolo  Pf crota   fa.-  to  dy) - Poo-it to-re  of pry centi.                ladrtrl (cart... ) - Lchec fut   s  itgoesttlo                    r-fettrift
oat apyof f co  prdy.  -a  erpply of food 0. dtfead  as ohv.-   Pe-                      en   ltrct,ottcdg.o   eteqe tO  oa   eo  ftt   5
.1irmrt  fo 6 l0       etierthlae    yUI   otlafreos                                     1970  Wi 1978 data.
ci8etao   0  rt  of t'tto  protais per doy cod 20 trea  of trooo  ta          Pootiierttis Oat. (--0el      otl  -el..caod f melt   P.rtOtlpotireo
polta pootrie, of whIch 10 are _ Morld ha cai-I prot.it.  Thea. ateod-                   actIv,ity rat...err  oPutadt  tutol. tel.  ta  foal. lbarfarc  at
crd. eta lest than. that. of 75 tome of totel pr-tia ted 23 Srm   rt                                       o   ,-            .L   ...f_o   1   8                W t-7
Oorld Prod torvay; 1961-05. 1970 tad 1977 dete~~.d  A                       19 id P60. 1970, red 1975 data.  Theta  rrr IL'. p-tIiciperito  ro .. raf tieg
Pet ceolo trotoo eoly f to   aolen_ae     Porteypyo   rd_a -t  arttrr   ofroppeia  eAd load tio.  -rt.  A far  eti-
I  i_4  r_  _Ll.  .4  o---    L-1  Wwl..-ft.l.  .pply  f f..  d.    retea err flt... etofal apuoar.t
rIe1oe-arl  tdpla  Ia grs pot doy; 1961-61S. 1970 ecd 1977 deto.                       itoicDrare,s -                 erO    f  eueto   adt1  ed6  tdoa
Child (t.1A          otlt  tate " etcharted) - A--tl dwath. pat thoteed to                    o  to  trt   labord-    tr~ot..                    oo.   5   46
eta  ror  1-f. yre.ta ohldore   It Ib  eat S r..P; for oott devt.lrpr  tore
Iolet date dooliad fore 100. table.; 1960. 1970 tad 1977 date.                         INCUNZ DISRm aIDTOt
LIfe  OaXa-tt...  at  tlri  (ynt.  - Ao..rogr ncht tf ytera of lif. rme.irg                                               I otr.rcoa _0p tter. peast  20 perats  rd pror=t 69 Porbte
et bIrth; 1960. 1970 en L97. dte..fh..ol.
Infeet atrtolito  Uer. fea  choad  - A..-ta deaths of Itfteata            . rdo- tea -    POVtITO TAGIST 1ROUPS
orf ott Par thoraaa  liv  hirthe.                                                         tati-ted Ab-l.ta Povtn  Ir-es Lrvrl ffUS  eaM eS)-ebew    o
tooe  to l Sets Wter?t fea tcee  r   owetotb   -,rtotl. -rb-e  red ror..  -               Abrelcta pootty toteslvli            LhettsLere  hola  tirke
M     Ihe  of  _parl  frt. ohe  ead         ijel  wit  oaaorbi.  -rtea  to ttft             etrisiaally odtarot  dlet pLea aacotiol er-ford rsqrirta  i.e te
wrr   rh Za ht fore  rotrtad h-tohlte, aPrit.. tad .aettoY wrla it"                   Etfntd Mistiva Povortolct  tta    0)  a  Ilt)-.
farcettea   fteirraato  prllooa.  10 - robe   ret  oltaRol. -alAtio  povety lae                                                _aa Ir    e-hrdoA        yrgsprrpt
feraso   tcadpoat  t.t.. 0t 5 ret,- the  10 rtare foot r hoo.a my ba                 -aaoltom    ohtear.Ore   ee                      ,i ala  ten he- Vr
toredera    a.btt  lbs  eetbla oteaf that hoe.   . Orl  tt-lv l wish                                           fjotatcfrblbroe  ofb line   to rrhe" f-raM, -
roeolt tote., wold taply that the hurteif a. or   ro    of tho h-..ehold                te-ee1ooal.00wArlt   eot  toe    oalit.st       r.
dosthav  toeta     di.ptrportirott  pert of   aday  ho etooe  thLa   oa       acr   f  ooale(oetdrre:to.telt   rt
fatlly'e Rettr aend.. ~~-n
of hatc    _-cer  ted  -ta-wt- by .wat-b.ror  eyetm   or she te  of                                                                        Oroht 
pit pooAM odelilriwreleto



Annex I
Page if 5
ECONCHIC DEVELOpMNT DATA
GNP PER CAPTTA IN 1979 US$190
CROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979/80-k                                                            ANNUAL BATE OF CGROWTH (. constant prices) EJ
US$ Bln.         7           1955/56-1959/60   1960/61-1964/65    1965/66-1969/70    1970/71-1974/75    1975/76-1978/79
GNP at Market Prices                  134.16         100.0               3.7               3.6                 3.6                 2.8                 4.5
Gross Domestic Investment              29.24          21.8
Gross National Saving                  28.55          21.3
Correct Account Balance   d/           -0.85         - 0.6
OUTPUT, LAbOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added (at factor cost)          Labor Force             V,A. Per Worker
US$ Bln.                            i. -                     US$        % of National Averate
Agriculture                        39.8               39.6           181.3     71               220               56
Industry                           25.5               25.3            28.1     11               906              230
Services                           35.3               35.1            46.0     18               767              195
Total/average                     100.6              100.0           255.4    100               394               100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                                           Central Govern-ent
Re. BIn.            7. of GDP                                Rs. Bln.            7 of GDP
1979/80      1979/80   1975/76-1979/80                       1979/80      1979/80    1975/76-1979/80
Correct Receipts                   208.18         19.2          18.9                            108.96         10.0           10.6
Current Espenditures               206.44         19.0          17.7                            117.67         10.8           10.6
Current Surplus/Deficit              1.74         0.2            1.2                            - 8.71        - 0.8             -
Capital Elpesdituros   f/           81.81          7.5           7.4                             56.93          5.2            5.1
Enternol Assistance (net)  d/        7.97         0.7            0.9                              7.97          0.7           0.9
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES           1970/71      1973/74     1974/75      1975/76     1976/77      1977/78     1978/79      1979/80      December 1979      December 1980
(Rs Billion outstanding at end of period)
Money and Qoasi Money               109.6        175.7       194.6        222.9        272.8        329.1       398.9        468 2           448 3            521 7
Bank Credit to Government (net)      52.6        87.3         95.3       101.1         110.2        134.7       153.9        192.2           176.4            231.4
Bank Credit to Cinercial Sector    64.6          107.0       126.7       153.9         185.0       212.2        253.5       306.5            294.7            335.9
(Percentage or Inde" Numbers)                                                          April-Dec 1979    April-Doc 1980
Money and Quasi Money as 7 of GDP   27.2          29.8        27.9         30.2         34.0        36.3         40.8        43.1
Wholesale Price Inde-
(1970/71 - 100)                   100.0       139.7        174.9       173.0         176.6       185.8        185.8       217.6            212.2           253.5
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                 7.7         20.2        25.2        - 1.1          2.1          5.2          -          17.1             14.6            19.5
Bank Credit to Government (net)      10.8         12.3         9.2         6.1           9.0        22.2         14.3        24.9             24.9 8/          31.2  Id
Bank Credit to C-ercial Sector    19.4           22.6         18.4        21.5          20.2         14.7        19.5        20.9             17.5  j/         14.0  J
8/  The per capita GNP estimate is at market prices, calcolated by the conversion technique used in the World Bak Atlas, 1979.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average eachange rate prevailing during the period covered.
pJ  Quick Estisates.
c/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one observation
after last year of listed period.
d/ World Bank estimtes; not necessarily consistent with official figures.
/ Transfere betuesn Centre and States have been netted out.
1/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
g/  Percentage change frm end-December 1978 to end-December 1979.
J  Percentage change f8m  end-Decebr 1979 to end-December 1980.



Annex I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                     1977/78      1978/79    1979/80    1980/81               MEgRCANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976/77 - 1979/80)
US$ Ml.         X
Exports of Goods                         6,315        6,978       7,958       8,998              Engineering Goods             768 i/       11
Imports of Goods                        -7,188       -8,519    -11,249    -15,624               Tea                            462           7
Trade Balance                           - 873        -1,541    - 3,291    - 6,626                Gems                          605           9
NFS (net)                                  691          773         633         463              Clothing                      460            7
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                         - 182        - 768    - 2.658    - 6.163                      Products                425            6
Jute Manufactures             284           4
Interest Payments (net)   /               - 89         - 35         350         303              Iron Ore                      298            5
Other Factor Payments (net)                 -            -           -           -               Cotton Textiles               289            4
Net Transfers 1/                         1,077        1,216       1,458       2,462              Sugar                          132           2
Others                      3,028          45
Balance on Current Account                 806          413       - 850      -3.398
Total                       6.751         100
Official Aid
Disbursements                         1,628        1,695       1,891       2,389             EXTERNAL DEBT. MARCH 31. 1980
Aortization                           - 645        - 702       - 676       - 707                                                   US$ billion
Transactions with DiF                    - 330        - 158         -         1,035              Outstanding and Disbursed                   15.6
All pther Items                            617          286       - 143         133              Undisbursed                                  5.7
Outstanding, including                     21.3
Increase in Reserves ()                 -2,076       -1,534       - 222         548                  Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year)                5,823        7,357       7,579       7,031
Net Reserves   (end year)  h/            5,668        7,357       7,579       6,691              DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979/80  h/!/  10.4 per cent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                       IBRD/IDA LENDING. DECEKBER 31. 1980
Imports                                  1,811        2,043       3,977       7,012                                                    USS million
of which:  Petrolem                   1,811        2,043       3,977       7,0127,02IDA
Exports                                     32           24          26         n.a.             Outstanding and Disbursed          806         4,895
Undisbursed                        572         3,547
Outstanding, including          1,378          8,442
Undisbursed
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971         : US$1.00 - Rs 7.5
Re 1.00 - US$0.133333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972  : US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Re 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                    : Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1979               US$1.00 - Rs 7.907
Re 1.00 - US$0.126
Spot Rate end-December 1980               US$1.00 - Rs 7.930
Re 1.00 - US$0.126
| Estimated.
il Figures given cover all investmnt income (net). Major payments are interest on foreign loans
and charges paid to IMF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
J/  Figures given include workers' rmittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
included within official aid disbursements.
hi Excludes net use of IllP credit.
I/ Figure for 1979/80 is estimated.
S1  Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of exports of goods mnd services.
ApriL 1981



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 18
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1981)
US$ million
Loan or                                                             (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year Borrower         Purpose                         Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
43 Loans/                                                     1,313.2
66 Credits fully disbursed                                               3,864.4
342-IN    1972  India   Education                               --         12.0       3.70
378-IN    1973  India   Karnataka Agricultural Markets          --          8.0       0.95
390-IN    1973  India   Bombay Water Supply I                   --         55-0        .51
456-IN    1974  India   HP Apple Processing & Marketing         --         13.0       5.61
1011-IN    1974  India   Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                 52.0        --       14.11
482-IN    1974  India   Karnataka Dairy                         -          30.0     16.75
502-IN    1974  India   Rajasthan Canal CAD                     --         83.0      29.97
521-IN    1974  India   Rajasthan Dairy                         --         27.7     12.74
522-IN    1974  India   Madhya Pradesh Dairy                    --         16.4       4.97
526-IN    1975  India   Drought Prone Areas                     --         35.0        .31
1079-IN    1975  IFFCO   IFFCO Fertilizer                       109.0        --        0.15
1097-IN    1975  ICICI   Industry DFC XI                         94.8        --        1.18
532-IN    1975  India   Godavari Barrage Irrigation             --         45.0       3.01
541-IN    1975  India   West Bengal Agric. Development          --         34.0      8.32
562-IN    1975  India   Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD            --         24.0        .57
585-IN    1975  India   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply              --         40.0     15.53
598-IN    1975  India   Fertilizer Industry                     --        105.0      28.57
604-IN    1976  India   Power Transmission IV                   --        150.0      53.58
609-IN    1976  India   Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.            --          4.0       1.63
610-IN    1976  India   Integrated Cotton Development           --         18.0     10.40
1251-IN    1976  India   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation              145.0        --       86.46
1260-IN    1976  India   IDBI II                                 40.0        --       14.64
1273-IN    1976  India   National Seeds I                        25.0        --       22.67
1313-IN    1976  India   Telecommunications VI                   80.0        --       21.97
1335-IN    1976  India   Bombay Urban Transport                  25.0        --        8.02
680-IN    1977  India   Kerala Agric. Development               --         30.0      23.96
682-IN    1977  India   Orissa Agric. Development               --         20.0       9.19
685-IN    1977  India   Singrauli Thermal Power                 --        150.0      50.62
687-IN    1977  India   Madras Urban Development                --         24.0       8.69
690-IN    1977  India   WB Agric. Extension & Research          --         12.0     12.00
1394-IN    1977  India   Gujarat Fisheries                       14.0        --       10.47
712-IN    1977  India   Madhya Pradesh Agric. Development   --             10.0       6.01
720-IN    1977  India   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation               --         23.0      14.23
728-IN    1977  India   Assam Agricultural Development          --          8.0       6.43
736-IN    1977  India   Maharashtra Irrigation                  --         70.0      35.47
737-IN    1977  India   Rajasthan Agric. Extension              --         13.0       7.89



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 18
US$ million
Loan or                                                              (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year   Borrower       Purpose                          Bank      IDA     Undisbursed
740-IN    1977      India  Orissa Irrigation                      --       58.0       35.24
1475-IN    1977      ICICI  Industry DFC XII                      80.0       --        13.53
747-IN    1978      India  Second Foodgrain Storage               --      107.0       83.66
756-IN    1978      India  Calcutta Urban Development II          --      87.0        25.74
761-IN    1978      India  Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                           --       8.0         7.23
1511-IN    1978      India  IDBI Joint/Public Sector              25.0       --         19.51
1549-IN    1978      TEC    Third Trombay Thermal Power          105.0       --        72.21
788-IN    1978      India  Karnataka Irrigation                   --     117.6        80.53
793-IN    1978      India  Korba Thermal Power                    --     200.0       141.46
806-IN    1978      India  Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture             --       14.0       13.77
808-IN    1978      India  Gujarat Irrigation                     --       85.0       70.31
815-IN    1978      India  Andhra Pradesh Fisheries               --       17.5       15.49
816-IN    1978      India  National Seeds II                      --      16.0        15.51
1592-IN    1978      India  Telecommunications VII               120.0       --        54.72
824-IN    1978      India  National Dairy                         --     150.0       134.05
842-IN    1979      India  Bombay Water Supply II                 --      196.0      183.60
843-IN    1979      India  Haryana Irrigation                     --     111.0        50.97
844-IN    1979      India  Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                       --     190.0       150.95
848-IN    1979      India  Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage         --       38.0       23.72
855-IN    1979      India  National Agricultural Research         --       27.0       25.91
862-IN    1979      India  Composite Agricultural Extension    --          25.0       17.75
871-IN    1979      India  NCDC                                   --       30.0        19.27
1648-IN    1979      India  Ramagundam Thermal Power              50.0       --        50.00
874-IN    1979      India  Ramagundam Thermal Power               --     200.0       173.58
889-IN    1979      India  Punjab Irrigation                      --      129.0      107.60
899-IN    1979      India  Maharashtra Water Supply               --       48.0       46.38
911-IN    1979      India  Rural Electrification Corp. II         --      175.0      132.17
925-IN    1979      India  Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry          --       23.0       18.99
947-IN    1979      India  ARDC III                               --      250.0       112.19
963-IN    1979      India  Inland Fisheries                       --       20.0       19.67
954-IN    1979      India  Maharashtra Irrigation II              --      210.0      187.41
961-IN    1979      India  Gujarat Community Forestry             --       37.0       32.88
981-IN    1980      India  Population II                          --       46.0       45.90
1003-IN    1980      India  Tamil Nadu Nutrition                   --       32.0        32.00
1004-IN    1980      India  U.P. Tubewells                         --       18.0        17.25
lOll-IN    1980      India  Gujarat Irrigation II                  --      175.0      174.06
1027-IN    1980      India  Singrauli Thermal II                   --      300.0      282.16
1012-IN    1980      India  Cashewnut                              --       22.0       21.93
1028-IN    1980      India  Kerala Agricultural Extension          --       10.0        10.00
1033-IN    1980      India  Calcutta Urban Transport               --       56.0       56.00
1034-IN    1980      India  Karnataka Sericulture                  --       54.0        53.62



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 18
US$ million
Loan or                                                            (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No. Year   Borrower         Purpose                       Bank        IDA    Undisbursed
1046-IN    1980    India   Rajasthan Water Supply
and Sewerage                       --         80.0       79.07
1843-IN    1980    ICICI   Industry DFC XIII                    100.0         --        91.40
1887-IN    1980    India   Farakka Thermal Power                 25.0         --       25.00
1053-IN    1980    India   Farakka Thermal Power                  --        225.0     225.00
1897-IN    1980    India   Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                  30.0         --        30.00
1072-IN    1980    India   Bihar Rural Roads                      --         35.0      35.00
1078-IN    1980    India   Mahanadi Barrages                      --         83.0      83.00
1925-IN    1980    India   Bombay High Offshore
Development                     400.0         --      400.00
1082-IN    1981    India   Madras Urban Dev. II                   --         42.0      42.00
1108-IN    1981    India   M.P. Medium Irrigation                 --        140.0     140.00
1112-IN    1981    India   Telecommunications VIII                --       314.0      314.00
1116-IN    1981    India   Karnataka Tank Irrigation              --         54.0      54.00
Total                                                      2,833.0    9,179.6
of which has been repaid                                1,070.4        75.0
Total now outstanding                                     1,762.6    9,104.6
Amount Sold                          133.8
of which has been repaid           128.1                     5.7
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                          1,756.9    9,104.6
Total undisbursed                                            936.0    3,962.6
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 18
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1981)
Amount (US$ million)
Year                    Company                       Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.            1.5        -         1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.             0.9        -         0.9
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                 1.4        -         1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                      0.2        -         0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.          0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.           0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.         11.8        1.3      13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.             1.0        0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                1.1        0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                 8.6        2.9      11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.             15.1        3.8      18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                        6.6        -         6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                            4.0        1.2       5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.        7.5        1.1       8.6
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0          -        38.0
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS          99.1       11.5    110.6
Less:   Sold                          25.9        1.7      27.6
Repaid                        20.8        -       20.8
Cancelled                      6.2       1.3       7.5
Now Held                      46.2       8.5      54.7
Undisbursed                   44.0       1.1      45.1



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 18
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding reason-
ably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below. The
level of disbursements was US$729 million in FY80, compared to US$538 million
in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal year through
March 31, 1981 totalled US$614 million, representing an increase of about 19%
over the same period last year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$4,899 million
as of March 31, 1981, reflects the lead time which would be expected given
the mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097 Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975; Effective
Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1475 Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977; Effective
Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1843 Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through a
well-established development finance company and are designed to finance the
foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a well-
managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented.
Loan 1097 is fully committed and disbursements are slightly ahead of
schedule. Disbursements under Loans 1475 and 1843 are also ahead of
schedule.
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening
the State Financial Corporations involved. Loan 1511 is designed to
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors
regarding the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to
report any problems which are being encountered and the action being
taken to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Fage b of 18
encourage the pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint
ventures. The project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector
investment studies and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing
with the state joint/public sector.
Cr. No. 947   Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
Project; US$250.0 million credit of August 20, 1979;
Effective Date: January 2, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Refinancing of lending to farmers has been progressing very well.
Cr. No. 747   Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Satisfactory progress is being made in the construction of bag
storage warehouses, despite problems of land acquisition at some sites. How-
ever, construction of flat bulk warehouses and port silos is not expected to
be completed until 1984, as a result of delays in the employment of consul-
tants and the longer time required for the preparation of technical specifi-
cations and tenders and the construction itself. In view of the high
increases in bulk storage construction costs, the Government is proposing to
reduce the bulk storage component of the project in favor of additional bag
storage capacity.
Cr. No. 456   Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project encountered prolonged initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. These problems have been largely resolved, but con-
struction progress remains slow due to material shortages and severe winter
conditions. Initial packing house operations were undertaken in the last two
seasons with favorable response from farmers. The project is scheduled for
completion by December 1981.
Cr. No. 806   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is under strong management and rapid progress has
been made in start-up operations with only minor slippage. The project's
research activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to poor
organization.
Ln. No. 1313  Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 18
Ln. No. 1592  Telecommunications VII Project; US$120.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982
Cr. No. 1112  Telecommunications VIII Project; US$314 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: June 24, 1981 (expected);
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loans 1313 and 1592 are progressing satisfactorily, although as of
July 1980, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment for the sixth project were behind schedule, resulting in a reduced
growth rate for the installation of direct exchange lines. Institutional
improvements envisaged under the projects have been achieved, and the finan-
cial situation of the Posts and Telegraphs Department remains sound.
Credit 1112, which was signed in March 1981, provides for the continued
expansion, over a three-year period, of the Indian telecommunications net-
work, particularly in rural areas. It also provides for the modernization
and upgrading of three existing telecommunications equipment factories, and
the establishment of three additional ones.
Cr. No. 598   Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit of
December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fer-
tilizer production capacity. The project has encountered delays in sub-
project preparation and investment approvals by the Government. Further,
some of the sub-projects identified earlier may not materialize because of
reconsideration by the Central and State governments. IDA has agreed to a
list of sub-projects to replace the ones that are likely to be dropped.
Because of the above, the project is likely to be delayed by about 18 months.
Cr. No. 378   Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 million
credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Progress is satisfactory. As of December 1980, construction of the 39 mark-
ets originally envisaged under the project was almost completed, and trade
had shifted to more than half of these. An additional eight markets have
been included in the project at the request of the State government, and
these are expected to be completed by June 1981. The credit is expected to
be fully disbursed by the closing date of June 30, 1981.
Cr. No. 342   Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project involves the development of the agricultural universities
in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve the
quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum of their
employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to enable it
to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development. Considerable pro-
gress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving



ANNEX II
7a-ge1Wof 18
educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project Direc-
tor and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are supporting
efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 390   Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 842   Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 12,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985-
Cr. No. 848   Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million credit
of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 899   Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 1046  Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: September 31, 1985
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns caused
by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), redesign of
major project components and the addition of a supplementary study on sewage
disposal, Credit 390 is now progressing satisfactorily. All works have been
successfully completed except for the projects sewege pumping stations.
Financial performance of the project entity is satisfactory. Implementation
of Credit 842, a second stage of the ongoing Credit 390, is proceeding to
schedule. Preliminary work in connection with implementation of Credit 848
is progressing satisfactorily. Implementation of Credit 1046 is proceeding
satisfactorily. Detailed construction programs have been prepared for rural
schemes, and preparation of tender documents for urban schemes have been com-
pleted.
Cr. No. 585   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0 million
credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date: February 6, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation of
technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the engage-
ment of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical exe-
cution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that dis-
bursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time of
appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements have been made to
closely supervise and coordinate implementation.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 18
Cr. No. 756   Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of
country-wide materials shortages and serious Statewide electric power shor-
tages. Procurement is generally on schedule for equipment and consultants'
services, though somewhat behind for larger civil works contracts. Staff
shortages in some of the implementing agencies continue, although more exten-
sive use of consultants has to a great degree alleviated this problem.
Cr. No. 687   Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
With respect to the first Madras project, physical progress is gen-
erally satisfactory and costs are within appraisal estimates on most com-
ponents. However, land acquisition problems and consequent delays in con-
struction on one of the three sites and service areas will result in about 15
months delay in the completion of the final sections of these areas.
Increased attention should be turned to the financial analysis and marketing
strategies required to ensure that anticipated cost recovery in the sites and
services and slum upgrading components and thus replicability is actually
achieved. Technical assistance is being sought to strengthen financial
management and analysis.
Cr. No. 1082 Second Madras Urban Development Project; US$42.0 credit of
January 14, 1981; Effectiveness Date: March Z, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
With respect to the second project, only recently signed and
declared effective, early project implementation is proceeding satisfac-
torily, with evidence that the lessons learned under the first project are
being heeded.
Cr. No. 482   Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521   Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522   Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824   National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of June 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 18
cooperative scheme in Gujarat State. More than 2,100 dairy cooperative
societies (DCS) have been established under the three state projects
(Karnataka-923, Rajasthan-926, Madhya Pradesh-272). Farmer response has been
excellent and project authorities are under considerable producer pressure to
speed up the establishment of DCS. Profitability in almost all of the DCS is
good and construction of dairy and feed plants is now proceeding at a satis-
factory pace. Limited milk processing capacity has been the major constraint
to DCS formation in all three projects. Under the National Dairy Project,
three subprojects with an estimated total cost of approximately Rs 1,000 mil-
lion have been appraised by the Indian Dairy Corporation and a further eight
subprojects are in various stages of preparation and appraisal. Advance pro-
curement of dairy equipment is well underway though disbursements have been
slow, mainly as a result in the start of project operations.
Cr. No. 532   Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1011  Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 1078  Mahanadi Barrages Project; US$83 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: February 11, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
Cr. No. 502   Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
T974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562   Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1251  Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)       Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window) of
June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million credit of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736   Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740   Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing date: October 31, 183



ANNEX II
Page IT-of 18
Cr. No. 788   Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808   Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1918; Closing Date: June 30,
1984
Cr. No. 843   Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978- Effective Date: December 14, 1978;- CTosing
Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889   Punjab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of March 30,
1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954   Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011  Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1108  Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project; US$140 million credit
of March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 13, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1987
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects is
generally satisfactory with the exception of the Periyar Vaigai Project
(Cr. 720-IN) where cost overruns have occurred due to substantial increases
of both quantities and unit cost over the original engineers' estimates.
Specific efforts are now underway to redesign this project so that it can
still achieve its original objectives. Difficulties had also arisen earlier
in connection with the Nagarjunasagar component of Loan 1251, where water
losses proved to be higher than anticipated. Additional assurances have been
obtained from the State Government concerned, regarding the enforcement of
cropping patterns and the sequence and timing of main canal construction and
lining, which should ensure that this project will also achieve its objec-
Lves.
Cr. No. 541   West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The progress of shallow tubewells is well ahead of the appraisal
schedule, but progress in all other areas is slow. The project is not
expected to be fully disbursed by the closing date, and GOI's request for an
extension is expected.



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 18
Cr. No. 682   Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million credit
Of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690   West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728   Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737   Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761   Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862   Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million credit
of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1028 Kerala Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 million credit of
June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 18, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
These eight credits finance the reorganization and strengthening of
agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in nine States in India. In areas where the reformed extension
system is in full operation, field results have been very good, both in terms
of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop yields. In
Rajasthan, Assam, Madhya Pradesh and Orissa, in particular, significant gains
have been made under the projects. In West Bengal, where a change in govern-
ment brought a review of the organizational principles underlying the new
extension system and an accompanying hiatus in project implementation, a
Cabinet decision has reaffirmed the State Government's commitment to the pro-
ject, revised implementation plans have been prepared, and project activities
are resuming. In Bihar, staff shortages, particularly in supervisory and
managerial posts, have hampered project implementation, although progress in
areas where regular extension visits are being made attests to the efficacy
of the system itself. In Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered under
the Composite Agricultural Extension Project, important early administrative
and financial steps have been taken to pave the way for effective operation
of the reorganized extension system and field work is off to a good start.
In Kerala, project implementation has just begun.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 18
Cr. No. 855   National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million credit
of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this pro-
ject was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the Project
Unit, the pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Commitment of
funds to research subprojects is proceeding satisfactorily, although
corresponding disbursements may lag somewhat behind the original estimates.
Additions to the staff of the Project Unit have been made to expedite further
progress under the project.
Cr. No. 526   Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Overall progress of this project continues to be satisfactory.
Implementation of most components is proceeding well. Dairying and dryland
farming components show particular promise for the drought-prone areas.
Cr. No. 680   Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays. The project has now gained momentum and the planting opera-
tions, which were one season behind original schedule, have been rephased to
make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 871   National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit ot February Z, 1Y/9; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing date: December 31, 1984
As of October 1980, when the project was last reviewed, construction
of godowns was progressing well in the States of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh,
although some delays had occurred in the State of Orissa. Consultants had
been recruited to assist NCDC and State Cooperative Banks in strengthening
their institutions, although some consultants were yet to be recruited in
Haryana. Disbursements have been progressing well and are now ahead of the
appraisal targets.
Cr. No. 844   Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0 million
credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: January 10, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manufac-
turing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to improve
their performance and availability. The project is still at an early stage
of implementation but is progressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 18
Cr. No. 609   Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date:
May 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
A feasibility study financed under this Credit and completed in
November 1979 has recommended the establishment of two mills, one for sawn-
wood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
industry in Bastar district.
Cr. No. 925   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23.0 million credit
of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 961   Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980, Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These projects, designed to expand the social forestry program in
Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, to provide a source of energy to the villages, and
to supply raw materials to cottage industries, are proceeding well. The pro-
jects provide for large-scale tree plantations on public lands, primarily
along roads, rails and canals, on village common lands and on degraded forest
reserves.
Cr. No. 610   Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million credit of
February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30, 1976; C osing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas until
the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to renewed
interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to progress
well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new processing units
are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra, and plant protection
activities have started progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273  National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816   Second National Seed Project; USS16.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by Cr. 816-IN). The first project started slowly due to organizational
difficulties and is almost two years behind schedule. Progress in the second
project States is more satisfactory. The role of various organizations
(National and State) in the production and processing of seed is being
reviewed.
Ln. No. 1335  Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 18
Cr. No. 1033 Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The bus procurement program supported by the Bombay project
(Ln. 1335) has proceeded on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies
having been ordered and 672 already in service. Total fleet strength has
increased from 1,530 buses at the inception of the project to 1,935 buses in
September 1980, in accordance with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity
expansion has lagged somewhat behind fleet expansion, but caught up in
November 1980. However, delays in construction of new workshop facilities
have been more substantial and will not be fully recoverable. As a result,
the loan closing date has been extended by three years. Traffic management
civil works are also somewhat behind schedule, although now proceeding satis-
factorily. Project implementation under Cr. 1033 is proceeding satisfac-
torily, a good start having been made on the important early procurement
steps.
Cr. No. 1072 Bihar Rural Roads Project; US$35.0 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
Construction is scheduled to begin in May 1981 on the firsts
phase of this project designed to construct or rehabilitate 700 km of rural
roads and to improve maintenance of the rural road network in Bihar as part
of the State's overall rural development efforts.
Ln. No. 1394 Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and      million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective date: July 19, 1977;
Cr. No. 695   Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984
As of October 1980 when the first of these projects was last
reviewed, the harbor construction works at Mangrol and Veraval in Gujarat had
encountered delays, although the problem with shortages of cement supplies
had been overcome. In Andhra Pradesh, the harbor works at Visakhapatnam,
Kakinada and Nizampatnam are progressing satisfactorily following the resolu-
tion of design problems. The road component is also progressing satisfac-
torily.
Cr. No. 963   Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of January 18,
19830; Effective Date: May 5, l96U; Closing Date: September JO,
1985
This project, which is the first of its kind in India, is designed to
increase carp production in five states--West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa, Madhya
Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh--through the construction of hatcheries, improve-
ments to fish ponds, strengthening of extension services, and the establish-
ment of training centers. The project became effective in May 1980. The



ANNEX II
Yage l6 of 18
initial implementation tasks, primarily involving the establishment of State
Fish Seed Development Corporations and Central and State project monitoring
units, are progressing satisfactorily. However, hatchery planning has been
delayed as a result of a delay in the establishment of the engineering cell
within the Central Project Unit.
Cr. No. 685   Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793   Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of May 12,
19-78; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
Ln. No. 1549  Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan of
June 19 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979; Closing Date:
March 3i, 1984
Ln. No. 1648  Rama undam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr. 874   US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 604   Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 1027  Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1988
Ln. No. 1887  Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
and       US$225 million credit of July 11, 1980; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 1053  December 10, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in the Government's
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feeding
power into an interconnected grid. Credit 793 supports the construction of
the first three 200 MW generating units at the second such station, at Korba,
together with related facilities and associated transmission.
Loan 1648/Credit 874 support similar investments at Ramagundam, and
Loan 1887/Credit 1053, at Farakka. The National Thermal Power Corporation
(NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation of these power sta-
tions. Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500 MW extension of the
Tata Electric Companies' station at Trombay, in order to help meet the fore-
cast load growth in the Bombay area. All these large-scale thermal power
projects are progressing satisfactorily. For Singrauli and Korba, construc-
tion works are on or ahead of schedule, although some slippage has occurred
in the implementation schedule for the Ramagundam project.



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 18
Cr. No. 911   Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1925 Second Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$400.0 million
loan of December 11, 1980; Expected Effectiveness Date:
March 13, 1981; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 981   Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
The project has as its major objectives the lowering of infant and
child mortality and morbidity, the improvement in the health status of moth-
ers and children and the lowering of fertility. Implementation works have
started in both project States--Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.
Cr. No. 1012 Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10, 1980;
Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
Implementation has started on this project which is designed to
expand cashewnut production in the States of Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pra-
desh and Orissa.
Cr. No. 1003  Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
First year's implementation in one test block is proceeding according
to schedule.
Cr. No. 1004  Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million credit
of May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily on this project.
Ln. No. 1897 Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project; US$30.0 million
loan of September 12, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
Contract for the construction of Dholbaha dam has been awarded. Pro-
gress in other components are satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 18
Cr. No. 1034 Karnataka Sericulture Project; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Overall progress in project implementation is satisfactory. Minor
start up delays in staffing are being corrected.
Cr. No. 1116 Karnataka Tank Irrigation Project; US$54 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 5, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1986
The project is designed to finance the construction, over a four-year
period, of about 160 tank irrigation schemes throughout the State of Karnataka.
Start-up activities have commenced.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
SECOND KORBA THERMAL POWER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Borrower to prepare the project
The project represents the second stage of the second
Centrally-owned large-scale power station in India.
Preparation of the present project was part of a con-
tinuing process.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project.
Ministry of Energy; Central Electricity Authority;
National Thermal Power Corporation.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of the
first mission to consider the project.
Preliminary feasibility report became available in
September 1980. The scope of the project was discussed
at the time of appraisal of the first stage of the Korba
development in July 1977.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
October 1, 1980
(e) Date of completion of negotiations.
May 1, 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness.
September 30, 1981
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions
None



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) GOI to ensure adequate coal supplies (para 47);
(b) NTPC to inform the Association of any proposal to modify
existing limitations on its borrowing powers (para 56);
(c) NTPC to achieve and maintain a rate of return of 9.5% by
1990/91, and to set tariffs from the time of commissioning
of its first generating unit at levels necessary to
achieve this rate of return (para 54);
(d) NTPC to sell output of power from the project under
satisfactory bulk supply contracts (para 49); and
(e) GOI to conclude a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with NTPC
(condition of credit effectiveness, para 52).






AK~~~~~~~~~~~HANISTAN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~FHNl't 
. S S R  )                                            tHma hal PrOde h    _  H  I N  k~-4
_  3  -5'  't\ X n nbMYJ + x>~~~~~~~5
E'MRE!F-   r4RThn38    1                                                                                %> >
/~t ;s n / z ? . z <S--P 1 < 9
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l T 4, N bAffM
CX  ) '    .S       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~            tMS  I ~~~~ <L AX ''    EE\~~~~]
r7 ~       ~        t    .hm/             t3    4PUeb/                                                                   h
32-   \   +X5r';\  ~~~~)t\  <                                     4,.b7:,5 bAli''m>5W4<; 8r//: B U   
s   AmoulB   Daber    t                                                   r \ v sIndiJ t  t i  0 N D I 
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A T.'- -f     .''\'R"



