                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 29658

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (IF-N0150 PPFI-P9990)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 27.8 MILLION

                                    TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA




                                                FOR AN

                          EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                           December 23, 2004




Human Development 1
Country Department 5
Africa Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective March 10, 1997)

                              Currency Unit = Kenya Shillings (KSh)
                                    KSh 55 = US$ 1
                               US$ 1.44124 = SDR 1.00

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                   July 1    June 30

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CORPS          Community Own Resource Persons
DECDIC         District Early Childhood Development Implementation Committee
DICECE         District Center for Early Childhood Education
ECD            Early Childhood Development
GoK            Government of Kenya
HIV/AIDS       Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
IDA            International Development Association
IDD            Iodine-Deficiendy Disorders
KIE            Kenya Institute of Education
M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
MOEST          Ministry of Education, Science and Technology
MoH            Ministry of Health
NACECE         National Centre for Early Childhood Education
NECDIC         National Early Childhood Development Implementation Committee
NGO            Non-Government Organization
PIM            Project Implementation Manual
PMSG           Project Management Support Group
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
UNICEF         United Nations Children Fund




                             Vice President:    Gobind T. Nankani
                         Country Director:      Makhtar Diop
                           Sector Manager:      Dzingai Mutumbuka
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Carla Bertoncino

                                            KENYA
                                Early Childhood Development


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               21
9. Partner Comments                                                              24
10. Additional Information                                                       26
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            36

Project ID: P034180                                                  Project Name: Early Childhood Development
Team Leader: Carla Bertoncino                                        TL Unit: AFTH1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 23, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Early Childhood Development                              L/C/TF Number: IF-N0150; PPFI-P9990
   Country/Department: KENYA                                                               Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (34%); Pre-primary education
                            (30%); Tertiary education (17%); Health (16%); Primary education
                            (3%)
                  Theme: Child health (P); Education for all (P); Nutrition and food security
                            (P); Social analysis and monitoring (P); Social risk coping (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/31/1995                                     Effective: 10/09/1997                10/09/1997
     Appraisal: 01/15/1996                                         MTR: 11/22/1999                  11/22/1999
      Approval: 04/08/1997                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:                  GOVERNMENT OF KENYA/MINISTRY OF EDUCATION;
                                           GOVERNMENT OF KENYA/SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY (MOEST)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Makhtar Diop                                   Harold Wackman
Sector Manager:                 Dzingai B. Mutumbuka                           Ruth Kagia
Team Leader at ICR:             Carla Bertoncino                               Marito H. Garcia
ICR Primary Author:             Sundararajan Srinivasa Gopalan;
                                Donna R. MacCormac


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
This assessment is based on a review of the available documentation (see annex 7), a two-week mission
(June 2004) by the ICR team, including several field visits and discussions with Government officials,
NGO partners, and the Bank staff and consultants related to the project. Particular mention should be

made of the following documents: The Bank's Staff Appraisal Report, the Bank's Project Status Reports
(PSR); the mission aide-memoires; Project Completion Report by the Government of Kenya (GOK); a
Quantitative Evaluation and a Qualitative Study (these studies did not collect primary data, but used
existing data from the project's internal systems; and some of these are not consistent with a recent
assessment by UNESCO).
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project objective at appraisal was to improve quality and educability of children in poor Kenyan
households through the achievement of the following: a) improved child cognitive and psycho-social
development; b) improved child health and nutrition; c) increased school enrollment at the appropriate age;
and d) reduced dropout and repetition rates in lower primary school.

The phraseology "to improve quality ... of children" may have left the objective somewhat open to
interpretation (whether it refers to the children's quality of life or quality of education, or the quality of the
children themselves) and difficult to measure. However, the objective includes fairly specific indications of
what the project sought to achieve in operational and measurable terms, if only appropriate baseline data
had been collected and effective information systems had been put into place.

In light of the international research on early childhood development (ECD) that continues to demonstrate
the correlation between timely inputs in the first few years of life and healthy human development, the
objectives are very relevant to poverty reduction in Kenya. With over half of the children in Kenya under
the age of six living in poverty, 80% of preschool children being worm infested and more than 50%
suffering from anemia, 34% of the preschool age group (0-6) being stunted (i.e., chronically malnourished)
and with elementary schools reporting rising grade repetition and increased absenteeism rates, poor
classroom performance and increased school dropout rates, the case for a well-designed ECD program was
not difficult to make.

The project was built on existing infrastructure, and demonstrated commitment to ECD in Kenya. This
was evidenced by a long-standing practice of government supported ECD activities that began in the early
1970's. These activities included the establishment of ECD centers around the country as well as the
National Centre for Early Childhood Education (NACECE) at the Kenya Institute of Education (KIE).

The objectives were also consistent with the priorities set in the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS),
which recommended targeted interventions for vulnerable groups. The project objectives are still relevant
to Kenya's current poverty reduction strategy and the Bank's CAS, as the health, nutrition and educability
of young children remain critical determinants of poverty, productivity and economic development.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives of the project were not changed during implementation. However during the Mid-term
Review (MTR) in December 1999 some resource reallocation and restructuring activities were agreed to.
(This is discussed in greater detail in Section 3.4- Revised Components)

3.3 Original Components:
The project had 3 components with 7 sub-components as follows:

A.       Core Service Delivery Support (covering all parts of Kenya)
Sub-component A.1. Improved Teacher Performance (US$5 million). This component aimed to
improve the quality and availability of trained human resources for early childhood development in the



                                                       - 2 -

country. Training plans encompassed all levels of the ECD service system including existing and newly
recruited ECD teachers, trainers, head-teachers, zonal inspectors, local authority and the District Centers
for Early Childhood Education (DICECE), NACECE and the managers and directors within the Ministry
of Education, Science and Technology (MOEST). Targets for curriculum reviews/enhancements and
development for all levels of training were incorporated into the preparation of this component.

Sub-component A.2. Community Capacity Building and Mobilization (US$3.5 M). Objectives were to
build community management capacity and to mobilize resources for ECD to improve sustainability and
local autonomy. This component included the following activities: a) community sensitization on the
importance and benefits of ECD, b) training of key community leaders and managers of ECD centre to
improve their capacity to manage preschools, and c) mobilization of communities and increasing
participation in ECD activities by implementing an information, education and communication strategy. In
view of the already existing network of 20,000 ECD centres at preparation, priority was assigned to those
communities chosen for two pilot components : Health and Nutrition and Community Grant / Support.

B.       Pilot Components (in selected geographical areas)
Sub-component B.1. Health and Nutrition Pilot (US$4.5 million). This component sought to develop a
replicable model of interventions at the community level, to improve the health and nutrition status of
preschool children. The Government of Kenya (GoK) and contracted nongovernmental organizations
(NGOs) would pilot different ways of delivering health and nutritional services for two target groups:
children 3-6 years of age who attend ECD centres and children 1-3 years of age in households. The
interventions were aimed mainly at improving caring practices and at controlling five common problems:
growth failure, diarrhea, acute respiratory infections, worms and vitamin A deficiencies; in selected
geographic areas, they also included the control of malaria, schistosomiasis, and iodine-deficiency disorders
(IDD).

Sub-component B.2. Community Grants Pilot (US$5 million). This pilot (also implemented by GoK
and NGOs) aimed to assist the poorest communities in developing ECD services and improving access to
ECD services for the neediest children. It also included community based activities for financing,
managing and implementing ECD efforts. The idea was to make the ECD centre financially
self-sustainable by the third year of the project. Technical assistance was to be provided in management,
accounting, fund raising (by income generating activities), planning and budgeting.

Sub-component B.3. Preschool to Primary School Transition (US$0.8 million). This component was
to address the high drop out rates between the 1st and 2nd grades in Kenya caused by the tougher learning
environments in lower primary schools. It proposed to remedy this situation by harmonizing the curriculum
and teaching methods in the lower schools. The inputs included the development of teaching methodologies
and curriculum for lower primary schools, retraining of primary school teachers, field education officers,
head teachers and inspectors.

C.       Project Management
Sub-component C.1. Institutional Strengthening (US$8.7 million). This aimed to strengthen the ECD
section of MOEST and of NACECE and to provide the inputs to manage and implement the program. This
involved training and capacity building for national and district level management. The organizational
structure was a bit complex: a National ECD Implementation Committee (NECDIC) was to provide overall
policy and strategic direction; the ECD section of MOEST had the responsibility for project management,
coordination and flow of funds; NACECE was responsible for training, curriculum development, child
growth and development community education, resources management and research and evaluation; a
District ECD Implementation Committee (DECDIC) was to be responsible for monitoring and coordination


                                                     - 3 -

at the district level; DICECEs were responsible for district level implementation; additionally, there were
preschool committees, through which the communities themselves would manage the ECD centers. The
Ministry of Health (MoH) would second one of its officers to MOEST to implement the Health and
Nutrition pilot. The transition component was to be implemented by the KIE and MOEST Inspectorate.
Though the project did not create any new entities for implementation, the sheer number of actors and
organizations involved, the various layers of coordination, the several committees and the innovations
envisaged in terms of NGO contracting - all added to the complexity of institutional arrangements. But the
aim was broader ownership, involvement and partnership.

Sub-component C.2. Monitoring and Evaluation (US$1.0 million). The monitoring and evaluation
(M&E) system sought to track project inputs such as grants provided, monitor project outputs such as
numbers of ECD centers established, teachers trained, coverage indicators such as number of children
reached, participation rates and to evaluate the impact on children's educability, health, nutrition status and
such measure. An essential element of this component was the development of MIS. The M&E system
had been elaborately outlined in project preparation documents, with a clear distinction between
monitoring, evaluation and special studies. Monitoring was to be based on routine information collected
from ECD centers, to be fed quarterly to DICECE, and thence to NACECE. Evaluation was to be done at
baseline, mid-term and endline; through specific surveys.

3.4 Revised Components:
While the components were not revised, there were notable shifts in emphasis during the Mid-Term Review
(MTR). For example, at appraisal, Institutional Strengthening had a focus on 'software' inputs such as HR
development, training and system development. By Mid-term, the Institutional Strengthening component
saw a new emphasis on infrastructure that resulted in the construction of the NACECE conference center
and 14 DICECE resource centers. No reasonable justification could be made for the construction of the
large conference center in Nairobi, with very little direct benefits to the ECD program; as for the DICECE
resource centers, though the idea might have been justifiable, its implementation left much to be desired; the
lack of concomitant provision for other associated inputs like HR, training and maintenance costs appears
to have affected their utility.

At appraisal, the project did not include any civil works. After mid-term, the DCA was amended to include
a new allocation of SDR 3.2 M for Civil Works, and increase the allocation for community grants from
SDR 2.6 M to SDR 4.3M and that for Operating Costs from SDR 2.3 M to SDR 2.7 M, while the
allocation for goods was reduced from SDR 6.6 M to SDR 4 M, that for training from SDR 4.8 M to SDR
4 M and for consultant services from SDR 1.4 M to SDR 0.4 M. It is surprising and inexplicable that the
Bank Management approved such a radical change as the inclusion of new civil works at MTR.

Activities related to HIV/AIDS Education were introduced during the MTR. Appropriate
HIV/AIDS-related activities were to be implemented within existing components, which were to include
the supply of material, curriculum development and financing support to orphans and HIV/AIDS
awareness campaigns of MOEST officers, DICECE officers, ECD Teachers and communities. There was
some confusion regarding the implementation of this new activity, as the agencies concerned were not
familiar with, nor had the skills for, incorporating HIV/AIDS interventions. However, the inclusion of
these interventions was probably appropriate given the status of the HIV epidemic in Kenya.

Another significant revision at MTR was the performance indicators, particularly by way of dropping most
of the outcome measures. Prior to mid-term, 8 outcome indicators and 6 output indicators were listed in
the Project Status Reports (PSR), though target values and actuals were not presented at the time. After
MTR (from the PSR dated 10/2/2000) 6 proxy outcome/impact indicators (essentially those which measure


                                                     - 4 -

outputs or coverage in lieu of outcomes or impact) and 8 output indicators were included in the PSR.
While this shift from attempting to measure outcomes to the use of proxies is understandable from the point
of view of availability of data, it does "shift goal posts" as it were.

The key revisions proposed by the MTR are listed in the table below (this is not an exhaustive list).
Sl. Revisions                                                                 Status
No.
  1.An integrated project design at the community level                     Partially accomplished
  2. Modification of the Institutional Strengthening component to             Completed
     include construction of media resource center, library, residential
     facilities in NACECE & resource centers in DICECEs
  3. Expansion of pilot programs                                              Partially accomplished
  4. Improving flow of funds                                                  Not accomplished
  5. Partial Cancellation of project funds                                    Not accomplished
  6. Revision of monitoring indicators                                        Done, but necessary information systems not
                                                                              effective and the utilization of information not
                                                                              adequate
  7. Addition of HIV/AIDS activities                                          Partially completed


The MTR decided to cancel 10% of the Credit and an additional 20% of the credit would be cancelled if
the disbursement did not reach the level of KSH 300 million (US$ 4 million) for FY 1999/2000. But until
the credit was closed, no part of it was cancelled, resulting in an overall disbursement ratio of 76%, i.e.
SDR 14.7 million out of the original amount of SDR 19.3 million despite a two-year extension, i.e. a total
implementation period of 7 years. Apparently, the original intention to cancel part of the Credit amount
was replaced by a decision to use those funds for the HIV/AIDS activities. Eventually after the project
closed 23% of the IDA credit remained undisbursed

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Based on the following, the project quality at entry is rated as Satisfactory.

The project was philosophically holistic, and the preparation was reasonably participatory and inclusive of
most stakeholders who share an interest in ECD and the well-being of young children. It was based on
long-established links between learning readiness and the child's health/nutrition status, and between early
childhood interventions and long-term human development, which in turn is critical to overall poverty
reduction and national development. Thus the project's effort to include health/nutrition interventions -
albeit as a pilot - was commendable. For the first time, the Ministries of Education and Health worked on a
project together. Despite the added complexity, such inter-sectoral collaboration was an innovation worth
attempting. In view of the complexity, it was appropriate to try the community grants and health/nutrition
interventions as pilots.

The project design attempted to devolve responsibility to district and community level and encouraged
MOEST, NGO and other district development staff to empower local communities in the implementation of
the project. Notwithstanding challenges like ensuring the smooth flow of funds to the districts, the
approach is appropriate; for instance, inter-sectoral collaboration and partnership with NGOs was found to
be working much more effectively at the district level and below. In fact, most of the implementation
hurdles were at the central level and to the extent that the project did provide ECD services at the
grassroots level, credit should go to the districts and communities which actually performed on the ground.




                                                       - 5 -

Another positive aspect of the project design was the use of NGO contracting to deliver services at the
community level, recognizing the comparative advantage held by NGOs in this area. Once again, this
approach was far from easy to implement, and untill the end there were issues of relationships between the
GoK and the NGOs. Those notwithstanding, the intent was laudable and both parties stated that they
would do it again, as they saw the value of such partnership. While the principle of NGO involvement is
clearly the right one, lessons learnt from this experience need to be incorporated in future operations (see
section 8).

The project was also grounded in other Kenyan realities. Significant risks were identified at appraisal and
these foretold some implementation problems; in retrospect however, the risk mitigation measures appear
not to have been sufficient. These risks included: a) potential risks associated with transfer of grants
directly to communities and the potential for misappropriation of funds; b) tendency to see ECD centres as
preprimary schools and parental pressure to teach the 3 R's (Reading, wRiting and aRithmetic) could result
in an extension downward of a rote learning system that does not serve the holistic developmental interest
of young children. Also identified was a risk that the expanded investment proposed in young children
could replace or reduce other sources of funding.

While the above positive aspects have resulted in the Satisfactory rating for quality at entry, significant
design problems are recognized, especially with the benefit of hindsight. Perhaps the first of such problems
is an understatement/non-recognition of certain risks e.g., complex implementation arrangements,
challenges of fund-flow, and the lack of implementation capacity [In the context of these risks and the
largely unsubstantiated assumptions used, the economic analysis and its project might have overstated the
expected benefits of the project (a 33% economic rate of return)]. A simpler design separating the nutrition
interventions targeted to the younger children (0-3 years) and the ECE interventions targeted to the 3-6 year
olds may have been easier to implement than the integrated design adopted by this project. The preparation
process, while reasonably participatory, could have been better; especially in terms of a beneficiary
assessment. The project should have paid greater attention to gender issues, both as they apply to the
beneficiaries and to the care-givers and ECD teachers, most of whom are women. The nutrition component
should have targeted children 0-2 years of age, rather than the 3-6 year olds in ECD centers or even the
proposed 1-3 year olds in households (which do not appear to have received much attention in reality). The
3 pilot components should have been designed with better evaluation systems, and a clear plan for scaling
up and mainstreaming. Linkages between the ECD program and the broader HD strategies needed to be
clearer and stronger.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall achievement of development outcomes is rated Unsatisfactory. The objective was divided into
four sub-objectives but an attempt to rate these separately is constrained in most cases by want of
appropriate measurements: a) improved child cognitive and psycho-social development (not measured); b)
improved child health and nutrition (not measured); c) increased school enrollment at the appropriate age
(satisfactory for ECD and primary school); and d) reduced dropout (not measured) and repetition rates
(Unsatisfactory) in lower primary school.

During the Mid-term Review (MTR) in Dec 1999 significant changes were made to the original outcome
indicators. Seven out of the eight original outcome indications were replaced with proxy indicators, which
are essentially output indicators. This has meant that the measurement of actual development outcomes of
the project has not been made, and it is impossible to assert that the outcomes were achieved as stated
originally. In view of the absence of direct measurements of the development outcomes, the Unsatisfactory



                                                      - 6 -

rating is arrived at through deductive reasoning: Given the unsatisfactory implementation of the project and
less than complete disbursement of funds, the very delayed start of some components, and several
short-falls in meeting output targets, it is unlikely that the originally stated objectives were achieved, though
a few output targets were met.

The one outcome indicator that remain unchanged at the MTR is the lower primary school repeater rates.
The quantitative evaluation study reported the average repeater rate in sampled project districts to be
around 11%. This compares with the 13% repetition rate at the start of the project. It is difficult to say
whether the 2% improvement over 7 years is statistically significant and even more difficult to ascertain
how much of such improvement is attributable to the project interventions.

In 2003, the Gross Enrollment Ratio (the number of children enrolled out of the total number of 3-6 yr
children) stood at 50.8%, up from 31.8% in 1999. Here it must be recognized that enrollment cannot be
equated even to regular attendance, let alone be a measure of quality ECD interventions or cognitive
improvements. Pupil-teacher ratios have come down from 70.7 pupils to a trained teacher in 1997 to 41.4
in 2003.

Looking at the proxy indicators of outcome, there are a few good results, in terms of increased numbers of
ECD centers, number of teachers trained, and increases in enrollment. The total number of trained ECD
teachers increased from 15,057 in 1997 to 38,712 in 2003 (of these 18,732 are trained in the two year
program offered under the project, as against the target of 13,000; in contrast the project could only train
7,900 more teachers in the short course, as against the target of 8,500). The number of ECD centers
increased from 23,344 to 28,702 during the same period (roughly 22% increase) though the number of new
centers established by the project was only 3,355 well short of the targeted 5,000 (annex 1). The number
of children enrolled in ECD centers increased from 1,064,053 to 1,604,539 (nearly 60% increase); but it is
impossible to ascertain how much of the increase is attributable to the project and surely not all of it, given
the poor physical progress of project implementation. While some of these indicators speak well of the
coverage of ECD services, it is difficult to conclude that the quality of ECD programs had improved, and
consequently that the ECD outcomes were indeed achieved. The project appears to have resulted in some
improvement in the national capacity for ECD services, but project implementation from beginning to end
across all components was hampered by procurement and financial management problems. Unfortunately
the end result of the slow disbursement rate of project funds was a correspondingly slow implementation of
project activities. In varying degrees, the slow disbursement of project funds has to have resulted in an
impairment of the achievement of all the components objectives.

ECD enrollment and teacher training are just two elements of the ECD program, and the project intended to
achieve more holistic ECD through community mobilization, community grants, transition arrangements,
and health/nutrition interventions. These interventions fell well short of the planned implementation due to
bureaucratic delays in procurement, disbursement and other issues. The number of communities mobilized
was only 800 (40% of the targeted 2,000), and the number of ECD parents committees trained in
management and accounting was 720 (36% of the targeted 2,000); the number of ECD centers with health
and nutrition interventions was 829 (less than 20% of the target of 4,314); the number of ECD centers
receiving a community grant was 90 (less than 10% of the target value of 1,480) and out of those receiving
grants, only 55.6% had a viable project; and among those districts which benefitted from the community
support grants, the increases in enrollment and the training of teachers appear to show no consistent trend.
The delays in the disbursement of the grants appears to have hampered their effective utilization. Under the
health and nutrition component, while activities were ongoing, much of the project inputs like drugs and
equipment were only procured in the last year of the project; clearly it would not be reasonable to expect
the achievement of the health or nutritional outcomes, and even where improvements may have taken place,


                                                        - 7 -

it would be difficult to attribute them to the project inputs. Though the health & nutrition, community
grants and transition to primary school were intended to be pilot interventions, their size (nearly $5 million
each, except the transition) in relation to the so-called core components would suggest that they should be
evaluated with the same level of importance. In fact, if they were pilots, these components ought to have
had strong evaluation mechanisms built into them, which was absent, thus making it difficult to learn
important lessons in the context of a possible scale-up.

Hence the overall achievement of project outcomes is impossible to assert based on evidence and very
unlikely under the circumstances described.

4.2 Outputs by components:
For the purpose of the following discussion, the mid-term output indicators will be linked to the
project components and development objectives and compared with actual achievements. In the
interest of saving space, the authors would like to refer the reader to section 3.3 for component
descriptions and their specific objectives, rather than repeat them here.

Sub-component A.1. Improved Teacher Performance. The achievements under this component
are rated Satisfactory. The project performed well in respect of some output indicators of this
component. As of June 2004, 18,732 ECD teachers completed their 2-year training, which
represents a 132% of the target (13,500) set. Despite this remarkable achievement, the
proportion of Kenya's ECD teachers who are trained stands at 54.2% substantially below the
original target of 70%. The reason for this shortfall could be the high attrition rate of ECD
teachers. The project attempted to address attrition but perhaps did not succeed; a study on the
quality of training and teacher attrition (2002) highlighted low and variable remuneration and
employment conditions as the main causes of attrition; consequently District Service Guidelines
were developed. A weakness in the implementation of this activity was with the out-of-class
component and post-training support. Trainer shortages and transportation difficulties coupled
with an expanding system limited the DICECE officer's follow-up with practicum students. In
addition, the majority of TAC tutors and inspectors had not yet been trained on ECD and most do
not visit the ECD centers during inspection and tutor visits.

With respect to the short-course training, against a target of 8,550, by the end of the project 7,900 ECD
teachers benefited from such training. Support and follow-up plans for this group of ECD teachers also
fell short because of the reasons stated above. Against a target of 60% DICECE trainers to have
completed the 9 month induction course, the actual achievement was 52.7% (253 out of 480). Similarly,
against a target of training 80% of national staff, the achievement was 58.8% in short computer courses
and only 35.3% in ESAMI courses.

From the small sample of ECD centers visited by the ICR mission, it appears that the overall quality of
preschool experience was enhanced, as evidenced by better displays of learning materials as well as
enhanced access to equipment and improved outdoor facilities. But there were also examples of ECD
centers which did not present such a rosy picture.

The successes of this effort to improve teacher performance across the county might have been higher if not
for the inadequate attention to supervision and quality assurance and the high teacher attrition rates,
especially among those who completed the 2-year course. Though available evidence on quality is
inadequate, increased enrolment might indicate an increasing demand, which in turn might be due to quality



                                                       - 8 -

improvements.

Sub-component A.2. Community Capacity Building and Mobilization. The performance of this
component was Satisfactory. The following achievements of the project might be attributable to this
component: 27% rise in ECD centers from 1997 to 2002, enrollment increases of 50.8% between 1997 and
2003, decreases in overage children in ECD centers, improved physical facilities in some ECD centers and
increased general awareness of ECD services among the public.

Some of the achievements under this component, as compared with the respective targets were as follows:
against a target of 75 district mobilizers 41 (55%) were trained; against a target of 300 district technical
committees 88 (29%) were trained; 10,000 parents were trained against a target of 15,200; and 800
communities were mobilized against a target of 1480. Trainer shortages and transportation difficulties
coupled with an expanding system and continuously rotating community boards, limited the respective
implementer's ability to provide sufficient training and follow-up support.

A participatory approach to community involvement provided a strong foundation for this component. An
inherent value was placed on community and parent involvement in ECD services which also encouraged
an increased level of public accountability.

Sub-component B.1. Health and Nutrition Pilot . The performance of this component was
Unsatisfactory. The implementers (both GoK and NGO officials) faced persistent problems associated
with the slow disbursement of funds. Timely and appropriate deliveries of health and nutrition supplies and
equipment such as drugs, storage cabinets, growth monitoring equipment, mosquito bed nets, and spray
prevention initiatives and feeding programs were impeded by procurement problems and slow disbursement
of funds. Some districts did not receive the necessary equipment and drugs until late in 2003, i.e., 6 years
into the project (some items procured under the project have been held up awaiting distribution, even after
the project closed). Such long delays in funding and procurement posed an almost insurmountable
challenge to both the achievement of outcomes projected and ongoing sustainability. As a result, this
component did not meet its coverage targets.

Despite these challenges, both NGO's and GoK teams managed to deliver services, by evolving local
solutions to problems not addressed at the central level, e.g., by sharing or lending resources from one
facility to another; as expected, collaboration between health and education sector colleagues worked much
better at the local levels. As a result of the project, 67,024 children were dewormed and 45,201 children
benefited from project drug treatments. Large quantities of mosquito bed nets, clinical thermometers,
anthropometric equipment and drug kits and storage cabinets were delivered to communities with project
resources. Some safe water initiatives and improved ECD sanitation facilities were also achievements of
this component. Health-related training was provided to school committees, head teachers, ECD and lower
primary teachers, community health workers and care providers. But given the shortened implementation
period (due to late arrival of inputs), the component could not achieve its planned objectives.

Sub-component B.2. Community Grants/Support Pilot. The performance of this component was
Unsatisfactory. The Community Grants/Support Pilot was implemented in identified districts by the
Government of Kenya in 9 districts and contracted Nongovernment Organizations (NGO's) in 8 districts.
Only 48 % of targeted committees were trained, 25% of ECD centers received their grants and 56% of
centers have viable projects as a result of grants. Significant delays in the transfer of grant funds to the
communities was a major impediment to the successful implementation of this component.

In spite of these shortfalls, the pilots appear to have the benefit of developing replicable service delivery


                                                        - 9 -

models which might point ways forward for improved best practices and increased sustainability.
Benefits of this component were in the financial support to teachers, the training given to ECD committees
on management and accounting, increases in access and improvements to ECD centers including purchases
of learning materials, outdoor play equipment, building classrooms and offices and extended feeding
programs. As a result of the project, "720 ECD center management committees were trained across 9
districts with over 200 committees are continuing to meet and maintaining proper financial records"
Ngware (2004). Community decisions were made possible through grants resulted in a range of activities
including: teacher training sponsorships, parent education, improved awareness related to health and
nutrition factors.

The allocation of grants was contingent on community based investments. Out of necessity, and given the
living circumstances of the pilot communities, income generating plans were developed. Because of the
project, over 50 communities developed innovative income generating projects that included bee keeping,
poultry and goat keeping, tree planting and gardening. These activities might also help to sustain ECD
centers in these communities.

Sub-component B.3. Preschool to Primary School Transition. This component is rated Unsatisfactory.
It is estimated to have benefited about 10,990 children and some outcomes related to reduced school
repetition and drop out rates were particularly attributed to the Transition interventions (Ngware, 2004).
However, the harmonization of curriculums between early childhood development centers and primary
grades does not appear to have occurred. A divide continues between the curriculum and teaching styles of
these programs, i.e., child-centered curriculum and teaching methods in preschool settings and rote
approaches to teaching in the primary level. In some cases, the rote learning system extended downward
from primary to the ECD level.

The majority of TAC tutors and primary school inspectors have not been trained on ECD and most do not
visit the ECD centers during inspection visits. With regard to this aspect the training and implementation
objectives were not realized. System-wide support in terms of orientation and training of teachers, head
teachers, inspectors and other officials in authority will be required if transition efforts are to succeed in the
future.

As a result of this project, inspection and assessment guidelines were revised and implemented in some
areas. Some teaching materials were developed and interactions between preschool and primary teachers in
targeted sites were facilitated as a result of the transition effort.

Sub-component C.1. Institutional Strengthening. The implementation of this component is rated
Unsatisfactory. Institutional strengthening efforts of the project at national, district and community level
were considerable. 80% of the national staff were trained in short computer courses; study tours were
undertaken to Ghana, Tanzania and Zimbabwe. Some activities carried out under the sub-component A.1
also contributed to capacity strengthening, e.g., curriculums for the ECD teachers and preschool classroom
and inspection guidelines related to the transition component were reviewed, developed and revised over the
course of the project. However, considerable efforts will have to continue if national implementation of
these curriculums and guidelines is to take place. NACECE distributed ECD learning and support
materials to only 50% of the country's ECD centers.

Before MTR, the activities under this component had not been well-defined; they focused largely on
training. By Mid-term, infrastructure investments were added. The project funded the construction of 14
DICECE centers and the conference center at NACECE. The value of the conference center to ECD
program is dubious at best. The DICECE centers could be useful, but their quality remains variable, some


                                                       - 10 -

of them were still not furnished at the end of the project, and lacked water and power supply. In addition
the project-funded library rooms had no books. Thus, this project has unfortunately been no exception to
the classic problem of financing construction without adequate provision of recurrent costs and software
inputs that make such infrastructure functional.

Follow-up and management of project purchased vehicles is also an ongoing concern. Vehicles bought
under the project have been subject to misappropriation and abuse by higher-level officials in the Ministry
and district levels, at the expense of reduced mobility of operational level staff. In spite of this issue having
been raised in Supervision missions, it continued to hamper the project. While the occasional official use
of ECD vehicles by non-ECD staff is certainly understandable, priority should have been given to ECD
field work.

Noted gains in institutional arrangements include the first successful collaboration between the Ministries
of Education and Health and the contracting NGO's; such collaboration worked more effectively on the
ground than at the central level. For the beneficiary/client, sectorial silos have no meaning and one-stop
service delivery is always likely to succeed better. Thus it is no wonder that the collaboration came
together more easily at the point of service delivery.

Though the working experience between NGO's and GoK was fraught with distrust and frustration untill
the end of the project, credit must be given that it was attempted at all. Once again some of the
contributing factors can be related to slow disbursements of funds, lack of financial accountability
mechanism and procurement problems.        Quite a few lessons could be derived from the rich experience of
NGO contracting under this project; some of these key lessons are outlined in section 8 of this report; more
detailed discussion of these lessons and other useful perspectives can be found in a report titled "Learning
Together", commissioned by the Bank in the year 2000.

Institutional arrangements at the center had their own problems. NECDIC and DECDIC never really
became functional. And partly as a result of their ineffectiveness, a parallel task-force was set up, through
an initiative of UNICEF, without taking account of these mechanisms (UNICEF was inactive in Kenya
during project preparation and since UNICEF re-engaged, there has been little coordination between its
inputs to ECD and the project). The Project Management Support Group (PMSG), was convened
irregularly and the ECD team in MOEST was left with little or no guidance or support from the committees
/ bodies intended for the purpose.

Sub-component C.2. Monitoring and Evaluation. The implementation of this component is rated
Unsatisfactory. Over the term of this project, DICECE centers gathered data; several surveys were
conducted; reports on community capacity building and mobilization, transition and quality of training and
ECD teachers attrition and monitoring were written; sample baseline surveys were separately conducted.
However considerable gaps remain in key areas of data collection, analysis, and reporting. The information
systems under the project did not function effectively, regular two-way flow of information was lacking and
systematic monitoring of agreed indicators did not take place. The baseline study and the two evaluative
studies (qualitative and quantitative) were inadequate sources of relevant information for evaluating the
project; they contain some useful data, but several agreed indicators are not reported upon. The fact that
the indicators were changed at MTR was another constraint that made the overall performance of M&E
less than optimal; in fact the logical framework analysis was only done at mid-term, i.e., 4 years into the
project's implementation. Information gaps on outcomes related to reduction in childhood illness,
documented improvements in school performance, and improved nutritional status of children make it
impossible to conclude definitively whether the project had the desired impact. Another weakness of the
M&E system was that the information that was obtained was rarely used for management or policy


                                                     - 11 -

decisions. For example, the data on teacher attrition rates did not actually lead to any effective
management decision to address the problem. The lack of a robust impact evaluation is particularly
problematic for the scale-up of pilots.

New activity (added at Mid-Term). Contribution to HIV/AIDS prevention. This was not formally
designed as a component; however, if viewed as a component, its implementation would be rated
Unsatisfactory. The fact that the HIV sub-component was sought to be "retrofitted" at MTR (primarily as
a way of utilizing unspent part of the Credit amount which had to be cancelled otherwise), combined with
the lack of the necessary skills in MOEST to incorporate HIV actions into the Education sector, probably
made these interventions more difficult to implement. Coordination of this component was also
complicated by the fact that 4 different agencies were involved in the implementation (MOEST, KIE, Aids
Control Unit and National Aids Control Council). Of particular concern is the fact the grant disbursements
to care for HIV/AIDS orphans were not completed by project end in June 2004. The achievements related
to HIV/AIDS did however include: the publication of HIV/AIDS training manual and 720,000 text books
(still waiting to be distributed pending resolution of some operational hurdles), ongoing national and district
orientation seminars and district level short courses.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) estimated an economic rate of return of 33% for this project,
(ambitiously) assuming public and private savings from incremental reduction of repetition and dropout
rates in primary school (until reaching zero when all primary entrants would have gone through a full ECD
cycle); and incremental lifetime earnings. For these assumptions to hold, one must also (unrealistically)
assume that due to the project and related policy decisions, the entire 3-6 years old population in Kenya
would be enrolled in ECD centers, will continue to attend regularly and derive full benefits from the ECD
services and, that such services would result in a zero repetition and a zero drop-out rate in the primary
level.

Based on such ambitious assumptions, the economic rate of return analysis postulated that 33% was a
lower bound, in consideration of other supposedly unquantifiable benefits of ECD programs.
Unfortunately, even assuming a flawless implementation, a rigorous assessment of this ex-ante rate of
return is impossible to carry out at the end of the project, because, it takes the first cohort 15 years from the
start of the project to enter the labor force. Other reasons are the lack of reliable data and the inability to
verify the assumptions. We can however conclude that while the ECD operation was well designed, its
implementation record indicates that the development objective was not attained, and its predicted economic
rate of return is unlikely to materialize.

The project could have been justified merely based on available literature about the value of ECD
interventions on cognitive and physical development and the resultant productivity and perhaps a
cost-effectiveness analysis, rather than computing economic rates of return. In general, Human
Development investment lending takes a long time to yield results, which is especially true if the
beneficiaries are very young children, as in the case of ECD. Under such circumstances, trying to compute
the rate of return of such projects may not be very meaningful.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
n/a

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project is rated to be Modest at best. A systematic institutional
capacity analysis was lacking and a coherent strategy to build capacity could therefore not be expected.



                                                      - 12 -

But if we look at capacity in terms of (a) human resources (b) systems (c) materials and (d) organizational
structure, one might say that the project contributed substantially to the HR aspects (through the training
programs), and somewhat to the material aspects (through the infrastructure investments and the supply of
consumable items), but little was done to deal with the weaknesses in the systems such as fund-flow,
procurement, management and coordination and even less was done in the area of organizational structure
(duplicity of roles and responsibilities). Even in terms of HR, more attention could have been paid to issues
of staff development and incentive mechanisms, accountability and governance issues.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The factors outside the control of government and implementing agencies were serious but not inhibiting to
project implementation, with the exception of specific areas hit hard by flood and drought respectively in
the 1997-98 El Nino flood and 1999-2001 droughts. The deteriorating HIV situation was a factor
impacting on the project's implementation, but whether this is outside the control of government is
debatable; but it is outside the control of the implementing agency (MOEST). Lastly, as the Bank could
have provided critical support to GoK in implementing the project, one could argue that the Bank's
performance during supervision constitutes a factor beyond the control of the government or implementing
agency.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Government has demonstrated an ongoing commitment to the project throughout implementation. The facts
that the project was placed in a regular unit within MOEST and staff were assigned to the ECD team from
both the MOEST and Health departments pointed to such commitment. Government ECD policies were
also enhanced and integrated at both the national and district levels.

Complex implementation arrangements, onerous financial rules, bureaucratic and systemic delays, resulted
in slow disbursement of funds, procurement and accounting deficiencies. The fund-flow arrangement, for
instance, involved unnecessary and repeated approvals and transfers from one account to another. The
diagram below illustrates schematically the various accounts / steps involved in the flow of funds from the
World Bank to the project; the complexities are obvious.




                                                     - 13 -

In the above diagram, on the left side are the various accounts and on the right are shown the different
actors. The horizontal arrows show who operates which account. The upward arrows on the right side
denote requisitions for funds and accounts; the downward arrows on the left indicate the flow of funds.
The exceptions are: (i) the down arrow from PMG to District ECD Accounts, which denotes an
Authorization to Incur Expenditure (AIE); and (ii) the upward arrow between MOEST Development
Account to PMG's account, which indicates a reverse flow of funds (!). Apparently such a reverse flow
occurs with respect to the finances meant for the district level, i.e., the funds get transferred first to the
MOEST account and then the portion intended for the district level has to go back to the PMG's account
and then transferred to the district level accounts. This happens because the PMG's office do not know at
the outset, how much is for the central level and how much for the district levels; therefore, they transfer all
project funds to the Ministry and once the Ministry calculates the district level entitlements, those amounts
cannot be sent directly to district accounts, but go back to PMG. If one factors in the various clearances,
approvals, accountabilities and other bureaucratic requirements for each transfer from one account to
another, it is a great wonder that any activities ever got implemented. As an illustration of such hurdles,
the accountability rules for AIEs were excessively stringent (for instance waiting for all the 70+ districts
and municipalities to account before releasing any new AIE) and virtually strangled the system. This
resulted in less than 1/3 of the total AIE amount being used, a factor that, inter alia, severely hampered
local supervision.

In the last year of the project, the Government introduced a policy of universal free primary education,
which seeks to protect the right of every child to have access to primary education. This policy did not




                                                      - 14 -

contain any provision to mitigate the unintended negative impact on ECD (though this is not uniformly felt
- yet - across Kenya). The new policy was not accompanied by effective communication campaigns
explaining to parents convincingly why they need to pay for the first 3 years of ECD before free primary
education. The absence of fees for primary education should free up household resources to pay for ECD,
but unfortunately some parents interpret the policy to mean that primary education is the important starting
level (they reason that otherwise, the Government would have made ECD also free). The negative impact
on ECD, wherever felt, is manifested by declining ECD enrollments, nonpayment of parent fees and
reduction of available ECD space in schools as classrooms are being reclaimed to make room for the
growing primary school populations. There is no easy solution to this situation, as it would not be prudent
to recommend the inclusion of ECD within the free Primary education; it would add significantly to the
exchequer's burden and to the management demands on handling what in effect would become an 8 year
program (5 years of primary + 3 years of ECD). Also, making ECD a prerequisite for admission to the
primary school might have the effect of denying many children the right to primary education simply
because they missed out on ECD. Hence, careful thought needs to be put into how ECD could be accorded
its own rightful priority, without impacting negatively on the declared policy of free primary education.

An important drag on the achievements of ECD teacher training was the high rate of attrition among the
trained teachers. Clearly a more sustainable set of service conditions - without necessarily absorbing the
ECD teachers in the public payroll, but ensuring that they are compensated adequately and treated
equitably - was required to address this issue. This action was recommended by the Bank missions but
effective action appears to have eluded the program so far.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
High turn over rates of senior project staff at all levels including program coordinators impeded continuity
and efficiency of implementation. Inadequate devolution of authority, discrepancies in compensation, job
security and terms of employment and education imbalances between the various levels of implementation
have also negatively affected the project.

While some of the implementation delays may have been caused by system-wide constraints which MOEST
was unable to overcome, it would appear that MOEST could have been more proactive in seeking
assistance from the Bank and/or in unblocking some of the bottlenecks through more vigorous follow-up
with the respective ministries such as Finance and Planning.

The fact that the MOEST and NGOs continued to have difficult working relationships (nearly throughout
the project period) is an important factor impeding success, and this was very much within the control of
the implementing agencies (i.e., both MOEST and NGOs).

5.4 Costs and financing:
There were no significant changes to the cost of the project during the course of its life. The project did not
suffer from a shortfall of financing at any time, as evidenced by the fact that despite a two-year extension,
only about 75% of the allocation was expended.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of project achievements and their benefits (to the extent that they were realized) is rated
as Likely. Essentially, the conclusion is that while the project has achieved less than was planned, that
reduced level of achievement is likely to be sustainable over a period of time. This statement is applicable
both to the limited benefits that have been derived by the children who did have ECD, as such benefits will



                                                      - 15 -

stay with them for the rest of their lives and to the ECD activities at the community level, which have been
and are likely to continue to be sustained after the project. The basis of the rating is as follows :

(a) The achievements in terms of ECD teachers' training program have resulted in a significant capacity for
ECD services at the operational level. And the band of ECD trainers who have also been produced as a
result of the project add to the country's capacity for training more ECD teachers. In addition, scholarships
and sponsorships for graduate studies in the Kenyatta universities, supported by the project, has enhanced
the available skills at the higher levels to develop strategies, policies and plans, curricula and other such
content for ECD programs in-country. 100% of the DICECEs staff have been recruited, which augurs well
for sustainability at the operational levels. Of course, the quality of ECD training, attrition of ECD
teachers, additional inputs such as teaching materials, supervision and inspection activities and adequate
class-room facilities are issues that need to be addressed.

(b) The community mobilization component has had a substantial impact on the motivation of communities,
including parents and teachers on the value of ECD for the children of their respective communities; as the
core ECD services have been supported by contributions from the parents themselves, they are less
dependent on public financing and are likely to continue as long as the parents are willing to pay for them.
Though the parents' willingness to pay for ECD services is a great plus for the sustainability of the
program, it is certainly desirable that multiple financing sources are tapped, i.e., the government,
development partners, NGOs and private firms who may have an interest in the sector; such an approach of
keeping all options open would further enhance the likelihood of sustainability.

(c) Even before the project closed, some DICECEs were meeting to discuss ways of continuing the
program beyond the project. The ICR team attended one such gathering and it was impressive to see such
a planning process taking place at the grass-roots level. It showed the level of commitment and motivation
at that level, which is critical to the continuation of a self-sustaining program. Similarly, at the national
level, there was a stakeholder consultation, coinciding with the last supervision mission, focusing
specifically on the sustainability of the project after Credit closing.

(d) The fact that the project was implemented as part of the ECD unit within MOEST, rather than through
a separate project implementation unit, augurs well for the long-term sustainability of the program. The
unit continues to function beyond the date of credit closing and with the help of NACECE and KIE, and
through DICECEs and ECD centers across the country, the services are continuing.

(e) The project helped in keeping the ECD dialogue alive and probably contributed to the momentum
which resulted in the formulation of a national ECD policy; the existence of such a policy adds to the
likelihood of sustainability, since it is owned by the Government.

(f) Necessary legal steps (passage of an Act) have been taken to make ECD and Primary education part of
one sub-sector called Basic Education, making ECD more sustainable. However two risks need to be
highlighted in this regard: (i) such a step may result in a large government-paid ECD program (along the
lines of free primary education), which may be untenable in the long run; and (ii) the idea of including ECD
within Basic Education may come with the risk of losing inter-sectoral inputs such as health and nutrition,
as it could become more entrenched within the education sector.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
MOEST assured the ICR mission that the letter of Sector Policy would be adhered to and sufficient
budgetary provision would be made to continue the program with GoK's own resources (i.e., to increase the
allocation for ECD to at least 1% of the total allocation for Education). The program would function as a



                                                       - 16 -

regular part of the Ministry's activities. Any requirement for external financing - including the Bank
funding - was to be considered as part of the Sector Wide operation currently under preparation. However
as of date, the budget for ECD is far less than 1% of the MOEST budget and there is no evidence yet that
adequate budgetary allocations are being made.

The Government expressed the intention, to continue beyond Credit Closing the pilot activities, which were
started late, to bring them to their logical conclusion.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during project preparation was Satisfactory. At nearly $700,000 the Bank
resources spent on project preparation was on the high side, but considering the challenges in putting
together such a comprehensive project, it was probably worth it. The project was prepared in a
participatory manner, consulting most of the relevant stakeholders (though inevitably some could not be
included in the process, e.g., UNICEF, which had shut down operations for a few years during the
preparation of this project). Technically the project design was good, it took account of the risks involved
(except for capacity constraints and complexity of implementation arrangements), built on the existing
strengths of the Kenyan ECD program and made substantial improvements to it, including innovations such
as community mobilization and NGO contracting. The preparation teams from the Bank had the
appropriate skill mix and provided the necessary technical support to the government. Two areas that
appear to be somewhat wanting, in retrospect, are: the design of the fund-flow mechanism and the
establishment of the baseline data and the necessary information systems to enable monitoring and
evaluation, especially for the pilot components. Perhaps in retrospect the approach of integrated ECD
interventions seems ambitious, and might have resulted in higher unit costs; a design of nutrition
interventions targeting the younger age groups (0-3 years), with separate preschool education intervention
targeting children of 3-6 years might have been simpler. Also, a more balanced presentation of the
benefit-risk scenario would have added to the quality at entry. These problems notwithstanding, the overall
project design and the Bank's assistance during preparation are found to be Satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance with respect to supervision is rated as Unsatisfactory. Before explaining the
rationale behind this rating, it is important to note that a Quality Assurance Group (QAG) Panel of the
Bank, in the year 2000, had rated the Bank's supervision of this project as Satisfactory. But the differences
between a QAG review and this ICR's assessment need to be borne in mind: the QAG review, as is
customary, was done without a visit to the project and therefore did not benefit from discussion with
stakeholders or visits to the field sites; secondly it was done half-way through the project and therefore did
not have the comprehensive view of the total duration of project implementation. Considering the full
picture of the project implementation during seven years, all the implementation problems could not be
reasonably attributed to the borrower's performance alone; the Bank needs to take its share of the
responsibility for these problems. Finally, it should be understood that such a rating does not reflect on any
individual staff member of the Bank team or Management. It is an overall assessment of the Bank's
performance as an institution.

During the life of the project (from Board approval in April 1997 to credit closing in June 2004), 18 PSRs
(more than the required two per year) have been archived, indicating a fairly vigorous supervision effort.
The task-team, which had some continuity in the country office through the presence of an experienced
national consultant, however faced several changes of team-leadership during the life of the project.
Supervision missions appear to have been appropriately staffed, the aide-memoires reasonably clearly


                                                       - 17 -

written and included agreements on actions needed. But it would seem that the agreements reached during
missions were not followed through and the Bank's team could have been more effective in the follow-up of
such actions.

The resources spent by the Bank on project preparation (from Identification to Negotiation) far outstripped
the resources spent during 7 years of supervision. In terms of staff-weeks, while 280 staff-weeks were
spent on preparation, only 102.6 were spent on supervision; in dollar terms, the contrast is even more stark:
US$ 698,700 were spent on preparation as opposed to the US$159,300 on supervision. The reason why
the dollar amount looks worse is because much of the supervision was done by national staff, while
preparation process had more international inputs; this fact per se is not to be criticized, but the imbalance
between Bank resources for supervision and preparation is something that should be addressed.

GoK felt that the Bank's support could be improved in the areas of procurement actions and disbursement.
The Bank team could have provided better assistance in designing a simpler system of fund-flow, and
facilitated disbursement actions as necessary. Additionally, the GoK officials expressed their perception
that sometimes the Bank missions were overly critical of the Government officials, instead of appreciating
their hard work under difficult conditions and encouraging them. The ICR team was informed by the Bank
team that such an attitude might have been an isolated incident, but the Government representatives seemed
to think that it was more than that. The Bank missions were also perceived by MOEST to be siding with
NGOs, rather than serving as an "honest broker".

While fund-flow is recognized as a systemic issue, affecting nearly all the projects in the Bank's Kenya
portfolio, it does not make it any less of an issue for this project's implementation and the Bank as an
Institution failed to help GOK resolve this issue, though it was elevated by the task-team to the higher
levels of management. This should be considered in the context of other projects in Kenya which have
successfully overcome the fund-flow issues (e.g., Lake Victoria and Arid Lands projects) through simpler
implementation mechanisms.

The overall slow disbursement cannot be attributed to the fund-flow problems alone; the borrower's
implementation actions were found wanting too. But the Bank team could have been more proactive in
early identification of problems and solving them. For instance, though the project appears to have
suffered serious implementation difficulties almost throughout its life, the first time that Implementation
Progress (IP) was rated Unsatisfactory (U) was in December 2003, i.e., in the last year of project
implementation, and the achievement of Development Objectives (DO) had been rated U for the first time in
the previous PSR of May 2003. If one takes all the PSRs together, it presents a disconcerting picture: a
project which had been rated Satisfactory throughout and got a two-year extension, ends up with a U for
both DO and IP in its last two PSRs. If a project should get a U, one would want to see the opposite trend,
i.e., the U being given early on, triggering appropriate remedial actions leading up to an S. Clearly this
project had serious implementation problems, which did not start in its sixth year; thus the earlier
satisfactory ratings were not realistic or candid. There appears to have been a reluctance to acknowledge
the existence of implementation problems early enough, which might have helped solve them in time.

The PSRs did not include quantitative monitoring of the indicators until after the mid-term review (which
changed the indicators to more realistic and measurable ones); even after the MTR, such measurement was
not complete, for lack of data. This does not take away the fact that the aide-memoires and
back-to-the-office reports highlighted key issues and documented the agreements reached. But lack of
monitoring data is indeed a deficiency in the documentation of Bank's supervision, and this is related to the
earlier point of identifying problems early, so that they could be addressed earlier.




                                                      - 18 -

The Bank team also appears to have been somewhat inconsistent in its decisions; for instance while the
mid-term review mission indicated a partial cancellation of the credit would be made, this was never put
into effect. Again, it would seem that there was a hesitation to take tough proactive actions. Such an
approach apparently resulted in the borrower not taking the Bank seriously when warned of significant
remedial actions; perhaps for the same reason, repeatedly the understandings reached in supervision
missions, and documented in aide-memoires were not honored. Moreover, an important decision with
which the Bank went along without convincing justification, was the introduction of new construction into
the project, especially the expensive auditorium as part of NACECE in Nairobi; the Bank ought to take its
fair share of the responsibility for such decisions made mid-stream (given that the original loan agreement
did not provide for any civil works), as it was approved by the Bank Management.

Finally and importantly, Management attention to the project did not come until it was too late. The first
time any Manager's comments were recorded in the PSRs was in August 2001 (PSR sequence 11), and
even in that case, only the Country Coordinator's comments had been entered. Subsequently, once again
the Manager's comments are left blank, but in July 2002 (PSR sequence 13), wherein the Sector Manager
has noted the need for close scrutiny in spite of the "Satisfactory" IP. Once again, the next PSR does not
have any Manager's comments but in May 2003 (PSR sequence 15), the Sector Manager notes the lack of
likelihood that the project would fully meet its DOs. Thenceforth, and only then, both sector management
and country management appear to have taken note of the problems with this project. Had the Bank
Management taken timely action to verify whether the ratings matched the implementation realities,
problem-identification and problem-solving may have come sooner for the project.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated Unsatisfactory. Though the project preparation was satisfactory, more
proactive and supportive supervision was needed during implementation.

Here it may be worth clarifying that the ICR team felt constrained by the forced choice between
Satisfactory and Unsatisfactory. Had there been an option to rate the performance as "partially
satisfactory", that would have been the appropriate rating. Being qualitative assessment without strictly
quantitative criteria, such ratings cannot be so discrete; rather they would probably fall in a continuum of
scores, depending on individual judgements. If a scoring could be given, say on a scale of 1 to 4, with 1
representing Highly Unsatisfactory and 4 representing Highly Satisfactory, then a Satisfactory rating may
represent a score of anything between 2.1 and 3.0. Unsatisfactory might represent a score that falls
between 1.1 and 2.0. On such a scale, the Bank performance during Lending might score say 2.2 (i.e., in
the lower half of the Satisfactory band) and during Supervision, it might be say 1.7 (i.e., somewhere in the
upper half of the Unsatisfactory band). Even with equal weights for Lending and Supervision, this would
make the average to be marginally Unsatisfactory (at 1.95). But the ICR team would argue that the Bank
ought to place a greater emphasis on Supervision, the lack of which has traditionally hurt the performance
of its portfolio. Therefore, the overall score might be say 1.8 (i.e., in the upper half of Unsatisfactory).

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower's performance during preparation was Satisfactory. The borrower's commitment to ECD
was evident in the fact that the MOEST had integrated ECD into its organizational structure, created
NACECE at the central level and DICECE in all the districts, and was already training ECD teachers
across the country. The fact that GoK decided to borrow IDA funds for ECD is also, in and of itself,
another indication of the borrower's commitment. Apart from commitment, the borrower's decision to pull
together two separate line ministries to work jointly on one project is exemplary. The willingness to
contract out community-level activities to NGOs was commendable (for the first time on such a scale in



                                                     - 19 -

Kenya), given the traditional suspicions between Government and NGOs in nearly all countries of the
world. The borrower had prepared a detailed Project Implementation Manual early on, which should be
acknowledged as an important aspect of good preparation. The comments regarding fund-flow
arrangements and monitoring indicators and the information systems apply equally to the borrower's
performance as they did to the Bank's.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance is rated Unsatisfactory. Partly because of the complex
organizational arrangements, partly because of the difficult fund-flow arrangements, partly owing to
capacity constraints, especially in procurement actions and project management, and partly due to
difficulties in the relationship with NGOs, the project implementation suffered seriously throughout the life
of the project. By MTR, the overall disbursement of the Credit was only SDR 3.7 million, which is less
than 20% of the total credit amount. And by the end of the project, despite a two-year extension of the
closing date, the project only disbursed SDR 14.1 million (73%) of the Credit. The borrower's request for
a second extension was turned down by the Bank in the absence of a credible plan to ensure effective
implementation. Though the teacher training component and possibly the community mobilization
component apparently got implemented at a fair pace, the other components essentially lagged behind most
of the time. The implementing NGOs suffered from delays and difficulties in payments for the services
rendered and their acrimonious relationship with GoK continued till the end of the project. Due to severe
procurement delays much of the health pilot and community grants pilot only started implementation in the
final year of implementation. Governance issues, i.e., the lack of accountability, at different levels,
impeded the project progress significantly.

In this regard, the ICR team would like to observe that it might be fairer to look at the Government's
performance on at least two different levels: (a) the central level and (b) the district level and below. While
most of the observations made in the previous paragraph can be attributed to the central government, the
district and community levels actually performed commendably well, under very difficult conditions. While
the financial and material inputs did not reach the district levels and below, local solutions were devised
and implemented to keep the project going somehow. Relationships with NGOs and inter-sectoral
collaboration were both much better at the operational level where the services were being delivered to the
clients. This is not to say that there were no management issues (like the abuse of project vehicles) at the
district level; but by and large, the decentralized levels of government performed satisfactorily.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency suffered from weak management, several changes in leadership (there have been
5 national program coordinators for the ECD program within the project's life of 7 years), lack of capacity,
especially in areas of procurement and financial management, undue bureaucratic hurdles and a negative
perception of the NGOs, which adversely affected the relationship between GoK and NGOs and in turn
impacted on project implementation. While the intersectoral coordination between MOEST and MoH
needs to be recognized, some lack of coordination was also evident within the MOEST, regarding the role
of KIE/NACECE in curriculum development for ECD with the Department of Primary Education which
was responsible for curriculum development for primary school, and regarding the two ECD task-forces
working in parallel (one set up within this project, and another led by a UNICEF initiative). The absence
of a robust management information system within the ECD unit has proved to be a major deficiency in the
way the project was managed, as it meant an inability to measure performance based on evidence.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is rated Unsatisfactory. While the preparation process,
intersectoral coordination between MOEST and MoH, achievements in ECD teacher training and



                                                      - 20 -

community mobilization and the decision to contract NGOs and the willingness of GoK to put more
resources into ECD were commendable, the poor implementation record with difficult relations with NGOs
and overall weak management and the lack of proactive problem-solving are areas which need serious
improvement.

Following the rationale explained in section 7.3 on Overall Bank Performance, the Borrower's performance
might be rated 2.2 for preparation (in the lower half of the Satisfactory band) and 1.3 for implementation
(in the lower half of the Unsatisfactory band) and with a greater weight for implementation, the overall
rating might turn out to be 1.6 (in the middle of the Unsatisfactory band).

8. Lessons Learned

8.1 Lessons specific to the Kenyan ECD program:

8.1.1 Experience of NGO partnership/contracting. A wealth of experience has been gained by the NGO
contracting approach used by this project in Kenya. Some of the lessons emerging from this experience are
applicable specifically to the ECD program and/or the education sector. Others are more generic and are
described under section 8.3.

8.1.1a The first lesson here is that it is feasible. Notwithstanding traditional suspicion and rivalries, the
project managed to do NGO contracting; but there were stark differences in perception as to whether it was
/ should be a contractual or a partnership arrangement (e.g., the NGOs saw themselves less as a contractor
and more as a partner, but the Government saw the NGOs as contractors).

8.1.1b Lack of clarity in this regard, especially the large number of contractual clauses which were left
open to interpretation resulted in considerable confusion and conflict. As MOEST and the NGOs
embarked on such an approach, they were not experienced in calculating activity costs accurately and
ended up with very high over-head costs (nearly 90% of the cost is said to have gone towards staff salaries,
in the case of one NGO); this resulted in considerable resentment within GoK later on. Another
controversy surrounded the vehicles procured under the project - whether or not the NGOs could keep them
when the contract was over. Thus the second lesson that MOEST has learnt from this experience is that if
ever they do such contracts again, they would be much more careful in what they sign for. This may also
hold true for the NGOs concerned; they too felt that they had gone into the contracts without full clarity
and might have negotiated substantially different terms if they had to do it again .

8.1.1c The MOEST has no difficulty working with NGOs if they are bringing their own resources to the
table, i.e., funded directly by bilateral donors. This would argue that partnership arrangements, rather than
conventional contracting, might be a more successful model here. But it would be unfortunate to give up
totally on the model of contracting; with appropriate corrective actions, it could also work effectively and
bears certain advantages over the other model; for instance, when NGOs get their resources directly from
bilateral donors, typically their activities don't come within the purview of the national program and would
be difficult to coordinate in a holistic fashion. And a well-designed contract is more likely to maintain
accountability, rather than loosely formulated memoranda of understanding that might govern a partnership
arrangement.

8.1.2    There is an universal divide between the status of the preschool teacher and primary teacher that is
exacerbated by discrepancies in remuneration levels, employment standards and education. Some of the
barriers can be brought down by common service terms and conditions, e.g, ongoing in-service training,
support and supervision, joint decision making and inclusion.



                                                      - 21 -

8.1.3    The future role of the various actors - the Government, the NGOs and the development partners -
in ECD needs to be revisited, if the program should be sustained effectively. The Government may not be
in a position to finance or deliver ECD services (except perhaps nutrition) for all of Kenya. One potential
model may be for the Government to take the stewardship role, and leave the financing to the parents (as is
largely the case at present) and the delivery to private actors (community organizations, civil society, and
so on).

8.1.4    The implementation experience of this project raises basic questions about the design of and
strategy behind ECD programs. As the ground realities include serious difficulties in inter-sectoral
collaboration, and as the appropriate target group for nutrition interventions (0-3 years) is different from
that for early childhood education (ECE) interventions (3-6 years), would simpler separate interventions be
more effective than the ambitious integrated design adopted by this project? Another argument in favor of
separating these interventions is that most effective community nutrition programs are based on household
behaviors, which require more outreach work than the preschool facility-based action carried out under this
project. Combining various interventions might have actually led to an increased unit cost per beneficiary
child (rather than yielding economies of scale).

8.2 Lessons specific to the Kenyan context, but applicable to all sectors:

8.2.1 Fund Flow issues. Fund-flow arrangements need to be simple; this is a systemic issue in Kenya and
should be resolved at the highest levels. In addition to appropriate design at the time of project preparation,
constant and diligent attention is critical during implementation. While it may not be possible to change the
system just for one project and/or during its implementation, innovative solutions could always be found to
go around these problems. For example, KIE was granted an exemption from the requirements of AIEs;
instead, it received quarterly advances directly paid from the World Bank on the basis of agreed work
plans. There is no reason why it could not have been replicated for the other parts of the project.
Similarly, the Lake Victoria and Arid Lands projects also managed to go around the fund-flow problems by
keeping their implementation arrangements simple.

8.3 Lessons that apply specifically to HD sectors but across almost all countries.

8.3.1    Implementation arrangements and institutional home. In hindsight, this project appears to have
suffered from sub-optimal institutional arrangements. In order to avoid the classic problems of a dedicated
project implementation unit (PIU) and to foster mainstreaming of the project activities into the ECD
program, it was decided to place it within the Ministry. However, KIE's autonomous nature and its
mandate may have suited the project needs better, particularly for the purely educational inputs. A related
question might be whether the programmatic approach is a universal solution or certain circumstances
might be more conducive to a more focused if less programmatic design. The answer may vary from
context to context. The eventual solution may also be a hybrid which retains the benefits of programmatic
approach while apportioning specific responsibilities to institutions with respective comparative strengths.

8.3.2    Economic analyses in HD sector projects need to be more modest in their expectations. Though
more recent techniques allow a better assignment of monetary value to HD benefits, calculating economic
rates of returns should not be considered mandatory. The justification of HD sector projects might often be
better made based on scientific evidence of the technical merits of the the proposed interventions, rather
than on economic rates of return based on long-term assumptions which are often difficult to justify.

8.3.3    Income generating activities and community investments in ECD can succeed, if designed well and


                                                     - 22 -

left in the hands of local communities to implement. It is also true that income generating activities are
vulnerable in areas of high poverty. Poor families are less able to purchase services and their children are
also the ones at greatest risk, thus requiring greater financial support from the government.

8.3.4    Monitoring and Evaluation. Though inputs, process and outputs may be sufficient to measure for
project monitoring, impact evaluation requires the measurement of outcome indicators (or if we are
measuring proxies, their relationship to the desired outcomes should have been established beyond doubt).
Significant investments in time and systems are therefore warranted at the development stage as well as
throughout the project term. And M&E systems should not only include indicators and targets. Other
essential parts of an effective M&E system would include the information systems, the data collection and
reporting instruments, effective review mechanisms and assured effective utilization of the data that come
out of such systems. Building a robust evaluation mechanism into the project is even more critical in the
context of its several pilot components, which were in fact, as large as the core components, but the lack of
adequate evaluation of these pilots makes it difficult to scale them up.

8.3.5    Linkages with other HD activities. While designed as an integrated ECD project, its linkages with
other HD sector interventions were weak. How ECD fits into the overall HD strategy in terms of primary
education, health and nutrition programs was unclear. This might have resulted in some of the problems of
implementation faced by this project. An obvious example is the introduction of the policy of 'free primary
education for all', on which the ECD program had little say, though it was directly affected by the new
policy; it did not provide the necessary means to protect the ECD program from unintended consequences
of such a policy. Similarly, the health sector program appeared to have little to do with the ECD program,
though the Ministry of Health seconded one official to MOEST for the health and nutrition pilot.

8.4 Lessons that may apply to most countries and most sectors:

8.4.1    Capacity issues. One cannot assume the existence of adequate implementation capacity, or the
effective strengthening of such capacity, if the initial conditions are so weak to begin with. Capacity
building needs to be based on a detailed capacity analysis, focusing not only on training, but more
comprehensively on systems, equipment, organizational structures and organizational culture. It is not
limited to the Ministry level or the Government, but needs to be applied to sub-national levels, to the NGOs
and to the local communities as well.

8.4.2    Changing policy environments are usually not within the control of projects and can significantly
affect the outcome and/or sustainability of project activities or benefits. For example, the new policy on
universal access to free primary education in Kenya, while laudable has had unintended consequences for
ECD. While such policy changes cannot always be foreseen, it might be a good idea to provide for some
funds within a project to finance unforeseen advocacy needs, to take appropriate actions as and when
policy changes appear on the horizon.

8.4.3    Capital investments in hardware components, especially civil works, should be only financed if
clearly justified based on need, and should not be without appropriate linkages to the software components,
or adequate resources for maintenance, supplies and other recurrent costs.

8.4.4    If the project finances vehicles or expensive equipment, it may be preferable to buy those
vehicles/equipment which are not perceived to be flashy status symbols, in order to avoid them being
appropriated by higher level officials. For example, a low-end micro-bus with no frills is less likely to be
usurped by powerful officials.




                                                      - 23 -

8.4.5     Staff continuity is important to the success of a project. High turnover rates of key staff positions
responsible for the implementation of the project can adversely impact implementation. It is important to
monitor and address inordinately high staff turn-over rates and develop contingency plans as necessary.
This is true of the Bank as well as the borrower.

8.4.6     NGO Contracting issues. Contractual and financial accountability terms and conditions should be
clearly developed and mutually understood by all partners early in the implementation. NGO selection is a
critical issue and the traditional QCBS method may not be the most appropriate one for this; NGOs, being
nonprofit institutions, are generally not geared towards tender processes and its bureaucratic requirements.
Often NGO capacity is much less than the need, which means the demand outstrips the supply; in such
situations, declaring just one winner from a bidding process may not be the best solution; a more effective
utilization of capacity might be to select those NGOs which meet minimum criteria and divide the available
tasks and corresponding resources amongst them. This calls for a very different procurement modality
(perhaps something like an open Fund approach). Also, instead of QCBS, one might use a fixed-price
procurement method, where the NGOs are competing purely based on track-record rather than on price.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


COMMENTS ON ECD IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)

The ICR looks at the performance of the project according to each component. It is our feeling that the
report is quite objective in terms of performance and challenges thereof. There are however several issues
that we thought are necessary to be included in the report as follows:

1.        The terms that were used from the staff appraisal and other project documents were 3
co-components and 3 pilot components. These should have been kept in the ICR that calls them
sub-components (3.3 page 2).

2.        Based on the money spent and targeted groups in the field it is our feeling that the target of 8,500
teachers trained in the short courses was reached (ICR 4.1 page 6).

3.        The number of communities mobilized is captured within the pilot 9 GOK support grant districts.
It leaves out the non-pilot districts and NGOs (ICR 4.1 page 6 and 4.2 page 8).

4.        The communication advocacy strategies should have been built within the project. Its absence has
caused some of the challenges during the implementation process.

5.        If 2 years of ECD (2  6) is incorporated in the FPE policy, it would be 10 years and not 8 years
programme as indicated in ICR (5.2 page 13).

6.        The report does not discuss the plight of ECD teachers' terms and conditions of service which is
the main weakness in ECD quality service delivery. The government should come up with legal policy
framework to employ ECD teachers.

7.        The ECD/VU support is missing in the report which is considered key in the capacity building at
top level (ICR 6.1(a)).



                                                      - 24 -

8.      This could have been demonstrated with better data collection and analysis, it is believed that
achievements could be higher than reflected in the report. An impact study could give a clearer picture of
the actual project impact.

9.      It is too early to come to a conclusion that there are no benefits gained from the resource centre.
Several meetings have already been hosted there, which benefit ECD, e.g. the recent ECD stakeholders
meeting.

10.     Finally, there were many lost opportunities for staff development for national level staff. It should
be noted that the staff worked under very difficult circumstances and without motivation, but inspite of all
these hardships, they did their best to ensure the success of the project.

Issues on coordination of the project

1.      Training of Project Coordinating Team

    There should have been a more in-depth training of the project team before the effectiveness date. This
    would have allowed the coordinating unit to understand the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and
    understand clauses that later brought implementation problems e.g. the requirement that the project's
    financial threshold was dependent on a level of expenditure before additional funds. The training of
    support departments such as accounts and procurement was also lacking. As a result, bureaucratic
    delays in procurement and disbursement affected project implementation e.g. in procurement of
    vehicles and drugs.

2.      Contracts with NGOs

    a) Contracts with NGOs were not originally understood and the PCO had no prior experience on this
    issue. Hence original contracts were reviewed to ensure that NGO provide guarantees for any prior to
    the release of funds. This and other issues caused conflict with NGOs.

    b) The contribution was not as forthcoming as expected. The PCO felt that the project only allowed
    to sustain NGOs management costs at the expense of implementation of project activities. For some
    90% of the funds released were spent on personal emoluments. In the future, agreements should
    specify the contributions of each partner.

3.      The inclusion of Civil Works

    Based on the slow disbursement of funds, there was every justification for construction of the
    NACECE Resource Centre and the 14 DICECE centres. Funds accrued from the NACECE Resource
    Centre would be put to support the ECD program. The DICECES would get more decent
    accommodation as opposed to the poor working conditions previously witnessed. The report's
    contention that there was very little direct benefits to the ECD program is therefore erroneous.

4.      Outputs by components

    The improved Teacher Performance was successful due to the fact that the infrastructure and
    modalities were already in place before the start of the project. Its success can largely be attributed to
    additional resources from the project.


                                                     - 25 -

    Other components were largely affected by problems in procurement and financial flow.



5.      Effects of Free Primary Education (FPE) policy
    The FPE policy has negatively affected the ECD program particularly the community initiative. Any
    support to ECD now should focus on a vigorous advocacy campaign to re-engage community support.
    However due to increased poverty of the population (56%) their level of contribution should be
    minimal. Assistance to the very poor is the way forward.

6.      Staff Turn Over
    At Ministry Headquarters an officer is expected to acquire various exposures in various departments to
    acquire more capacity and increase chances for upward mobility. A specialized program such as ECD
    or Special Education is therefore likely to suffer as staff rotate to other programs.

Conclusion

    The Project provided invaluable lessons on ECD which can guide future interventions. The advocacy it
    provided within the Ministry and amongst communities will be useful for future investments..


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                              1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Number of children reached by ECD           800,000 children                     Not measured
inputs from the project.
2. Increase in enrollment in ECD centers as a 200,000 children                      Not available (difficult to assert how much of
result of the project.                                                              the increased enrollment is attributable to the
                                                                                    project
3. Reduction in school repetition from class 1 Reduce repetition by 25%             15% reduction (from 13% to 11%)
to class 3 primary by 25% below 1997 level.
4. Reduce school drop out rate between         Reduce school drop out by 20%.       baseline value n/a. Drop out rate in 2003
class 1 and class 3 primary by 20% from                                             was 2.5%
1997 level.
5. Number of children reached by health and 60,000 children                         45,201
nutrition input from the project.
6. Number of children reached by community 57,000 children                          Not specifically measured
grants component.


Output Indicators:
                                                                              1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Number ECD centers established.             5,000 ECD centers                    3,355
2. Number of ECD teachers trained using the 13,000 ECD teachers at end of project   18,732
2-year residential course for ECD.
3. Number of ECD teachers trained on the       8,500 ECD teachers                   7,900
short course on ECD.
4. Number of new DICECE trainers post          138 posts to be filled               138
filled.
5. Number of ECD centers covered by health 4,314 ECD centers.                       829
and nutrition interventions.
6. Number of ECD parents committees            2,000                                720
trained on management and accounting.
7. Number of ECD centers covered by grants 1,480 ECD centers                        90
component.
8. Number of communities reached by NGOs (a) Aga Khan Foundation---115 centers      (a) Aga Khan Foundation - 67 (58%)
contracted by the project to implement pilots. (b) CARE Kenya--250 centers          (b) CARE Kenya - 201 (80%)
                                               (c) AMREF Kenya--512 centers         (c) AMREF - 417 (82%)



1 End of project




                                                                   - 27 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
1 (a) Improved Teacher Training                              4.93             3.88            0.79
1 (b) Community Capacity Building & Mobilization             3.58             3.19            0.91
2 (a) Health and Nutrition Pilot                             4.48             2.64            0.59
2 (b) Community Grants                                       5.00             3.74            0.75
2 (c) Transition to Primary Schools                          0.81             0.65            0.81
3 (a) Institutional Strengthening                            8.74             3.60            0.42
3 (b) Monitoring and Evaluation                              1.02             1.00            0.98

Total Baseline Cost                                         28.56           18.70
 Physical Contingencies                                      1.42
 Price Contingencies                                         5.14
                          Total Project Costs               35.12           18.70
                    Total Financing Required                35.12           18.70


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                            5.62            4.53         0.21          0.00         10.36
                                   (5.16)          (4.07)      (0.19)          (0.00)       (9.42)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         8.88          1.23         10.11
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (8.88)          (0.00)       (8.88)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         3.69          1.29         4.98
Community Grants                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (3.69)          (0.00)       (3.69)
5. Recurrent Expenditures           0.00            0.00         9.67          0.00         9.67
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (5.81)          (0.00)       (5.81)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                            5.62            4.53        22.45          2.52         35.12
                                   (5.16)          (4.07)      (18.57)         (0.00)      (27.80)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00           2.01         1.61           0.00        3.62
                                   (0.00)         (1.17)       (0.94)         (0.00)       (2.11)
2. Goods                            1.63           2.81         0.00           0.00        4.44


                                                - 28 -

                                      (1.25)             (2.16)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (3.41)
3. Services                            0.00               0.00              4.23             0.00              4.23
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.01)            (0.00)           (4.01)
4. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              2.63             0.00              2.63
Community Grants                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.63)            (0.00)           (2.63)
5. Recurrent Expenditures              0.00               0.00              3.78             0.00              3.78
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.44)            (0.00)           (2.44)
6. Miscellaneous                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                               1.63               4.82             12.25             0.00             18.70
                                      (1.25)             (3.33)           (10.02)            (0.00)           (14.60)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                      - 29 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Feasible to Assess. See Section 4.3 of the main text.




                                                  - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                   Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                          Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              08/1993                   6    TTL (1); Operations Officer (1);        S               S
                                             HD Economist (1); Nutrition
              11/1993                   6    Specialist(1); Consultants (2)

                                             TTL (1), ED.Specialist (1);
                                             Consultants (2); HD Economist
                                             (1); Nut. Specialist (1)

              02/1995                   4    TTL (1); Co-TTL (1); Consultant         S               S
                                             (1); ED. Specialist (1)

              06/1995                   9    TTL (1); ED. Specialist (1); HD
                                             Economist (1); Consultant (1);
                                             Representatives CARE (1), The
                                             Aga Khan Foundation (1); Public
                                             Health Specialist (1);
                                             Disbursement Officer (1); Proc.
                                             Specialist (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              05/1996                   7    TTL (1); Human Resources                S               S
                                             Economist (1); ED.
                                             Specialist (1); Sr. Counsel
                                             (1); Disburse. Officer (1);
                                             Accounting Officer (1); Proc.
                                             Specialist (1)
              9/1996                    9    TTL (1); Co-TTL (1); ED.                S               S
                                             Economist (1); Consultant (1);
                                             ED. Specialist (1); Fin. Specialist
                                             (1); Accounting Specialist (1);
                                             Proc. Specialist (1); NGO
                                             Specialist (1)

 Supervision

              09/1997                   8    Disbursement Officer (1);               S               S
                                             Procurement Specialist (1); Task
                                             Team Leader (1); Education
                                             Specialist (2);
                                             Consultant--Training (1); NGO
                                             Specialist (1); Education
                                             Economist (1)

              02/1998                   8    Disbursement Officer (1);               S               S
                                             Procurement Specialist (1); Task
                                             Team Leader (1); Education




                                              - 31 -

             Specialist (1);
             Consultant--Training (1); Health
             Specialist (1); Finance Specialist
             (1); Education Economist (1)

09/1998    7 Task Team Leader (1); Education      S    S
             Specialist (1); Education
             Economist (1);
             Consultant-Training (1); Finance
             Specialist (1); Procurement
             Specialist (1); NGO Specialist (1)

03/1999    8 Task Team Leader (1); Sr.            S    S
             Education Specialist (1);
             Education Economist (1);
             Procurement Specialist (1);
             Disbursement Officer (1); NGO
             Specialist (1); ECD Consultant
             (1); Financial/MGT Spec. (1)

06/2000    8 Education Specialist (1);            S    S
             Education Economist (1);
             Procurement Specialist (1);
             Financial MGT Spec. (1);
             Nutrition/Training Specialist (1);
             Disbursement Spec. (1);
             Operations Analyst (1); Team
             Assistant (1)

06/2000    9 Task Team Leader (1); Education      S    S
             Economist (1); Education
             Specialist (1); Procurement Spec
             .(1); Financial MGT Spec. (1);
             Nutrition-ECD Spec. (1);
             Disbursement Assistant (1); Task
             Team Assistant (1); Operations
             Officer (1)

06/2001    8 Task Team Leader (1); ECD            S    S
             Implementation spec. (1); Health
             Specialist (1); Social
             Development Spec. (1); Financial
             MGT Spec. (1); Procurement
             Spec. (1); Disbursement Spec.
             (1); Team Assistant (1)

10/2001    9 Task Team Leader (1); Co-Task        S    S
             Team Leader (1); ECD
             Implementation Spec. (1); Lead
             HD Economist (1); Procurement
             Spec. (1); Financial
             Management Spec. (1);
             Operations Officer (1);



             - 32 -

                                           Disbursement Spec. (1); Team
                                           Assistant (1)

               10/2001                 6   Co-TTL (1); TTL (1); FM (1);        S    S
                                           Procurement Spec. (1);
                                           Implementation Consultant (1);
                                           Disbursement Spec. (1)

               01/2003                 5   TTL (1); Education Specialist       S    U
                                           (1); ECD Specialist (1);
                                           Procurement Specialist (1);
                                           Disbursement Assistant (1)
               10/28/2003              7   co-TTL (1); TTL (1);                U    U
                                           Procurement Specialist (1); FM
                                           Specialist (1); Implementation
                                           Spec. (1); Sr. Education Spec.
                                           (1); Lead SP Economist (1)
               06/04/2004              8   TTL (1); CO-TTL (1); FMS (1);       U    U
                                           Procurement Specialist (1);
                                           Disbursement Assistant (1); ECD
                                           Consultant (1); Education
                                           Consultant (1); Team Assistant
                                           (1)

 ICR
               06/11/2004             7     TTL (1); Co-TTL (1);               U    U
                                            Principal Author; Financial.
                                            MGT Spec. (1);
                                            Procurement Spec. (1);
                                            Consultant (2); Procurement
                                            /Fin. Assistant (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           200.4                           524.7
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 79.6                             174
  Supervision                          102.6                           159.3
  ICR                                  26.97                            68.6
  Total                              409.57                            926.6




                                            - 33 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU
Unfortunately, the rating system does not provide a category called "partially satisfactory". So, if we In the
ICR team's assessment, the Bank performance
6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 35 -

 Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

 1. Pre-Appraisal mission terms of reference, Aide-Memoire and Back to Office reports.
 2. Appraisal mission terms of reference, Aide-memoire and Back to Office report.
 3. Staff Appraisal Report of the Project (Report No. 15426-KE of the World Bank)
 4. Legal Documents and amendments
 5. Project Implementation Manual
 6. Project Status Reports (PSRs) - 18 archived during the life of the project
 7. Supervision mission Aide-Memoires and the Management Letters sent while forwarding them to the
     Government
 8. Report of the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) Panel which reviewed the project's supervision in the
     year 2000
 9. Periodic Project Progress Reports by the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, Government
     of Kenya
10. Quantitative Study of the Kenya Early Childhood Development Project, Ministry of Education Science
     and Technology
11. Qualitative Evaluation of the Kenya Early Childhood Development Project, Ministry of Education
     Science and Technology, August 2004
12. Report of The ECD Baseline Survey on Teacher Education, Community Support Grants and
     Mobilization, Health and Nutrition, and Transition from Pre-School to Primary School, Ministry of
     Education Science and Technology, August 2000
13. Quality of Training and Attrition of Early Childhood Development Teachers in Kenya, Ministry of
     Education Science and Technology, May 2002
14. Field Monitoring Report of Community Support Grants, Ministry of Education Science and
     Technology, February 2004
15. Learning Together: Lessons from Gok/NGO Partnership in Early Childhood Development (ECD),
     World Bank, May 2000
16. Strategic Study on Development and Sustainability of District Centres for Early Childhood Education
(DICECES), Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, June 2000
17. The Effect of Early Childhood Development Programs on Women's Labor Force Participation and
older Children's Schooling in Kenya, World Bank, April 2000
18. Guidelines for Early Childhood Development in Kenya. National Centre for Early Childhood Education,
Kenya Institute of Education, 5th reprint, 2003.
19. Early Childhood Development Teacher's In-Service Education Syllabus's (Regular and Alternative
Courses) National Centre for Early Childhood Education Kenya Institute of Education, 2000.
20. Guidelines for Training of Early Childhood Development Trainers in Kenya, National Centre for Early
Childhood Education Kenya Institute of Education, May 2001.
21. Transition Guidelines for Pre-School and Lower Primary Teachers Ministry of Education, Science and
Technology, 2003.




                                                   - 36 -

- 37 -

