Report No. PIC2223
Project Name                     Kenya-Early Childhood Development Project (@)
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Human Resources
Project ID                       KEPA34180
Borrower                         Republic of Kenya
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Education
National Center for Early Childhood Education
Jogoo House; P.O. Box 30040
Nairobi, Kenya
Tel: 4-2-33441; Fax: 4-2-214287
Board Date                       April 8, 1997
Date this PID updated            June 18, 1997
1.      Country and Sector Background. Early childhood development
(ECD) is crucial for human capital formation and for enhancing the
educability of children. There is an increasing body of scientific
literature pointing to the importance of the first few years of
life from the point of view of human physical, mental and social
development. Appropriate physical and mental development of
children in the pre-school years leads to timely school enrollment
and improved progress and performance in school. A number of
experimental studies on early child development have confirmed
child vulnerability to adverse environmental circumstances during
the pre-school years, and more important from an applied
perspective, have shown that deficits in intellectual development
that accompany poverty and malnutrition can be prevented or
compensated through ECD interventions, that provide improved diets,
learning experiences and health surveillance.
2.      Investments in early childhood development programs worldwide
have grown since the 1970s for a number of reasons. First, the
increasing participation of women in the labor force, and changes
in family structures and child-rearing practices have created new
demands for child care. Second, steady improvements in the survival
of children have led governments to invest in laying the foundation
for human development by improving the health, nutrition and
learning potential of those who survive beyond the first year of
life. Third, governments have recognized that early childhood
interventions are particularly useful as a preventive investment
for groups at high risk of educational failure.
3.      All of the above reasons apply in the case of Kenya. The
demand for child care has increased as a result of increasing
numbers of nuclear families with working/single-parents, most of
whom are poor. Results from the Kenya Poverty Assessment (1995)
indicate that a third of rural households are female-headed. These
households, and those in plantation areas and urban slum settings,
are least likely to have access to quality child care. While the
Kenyan child's chances of survival have improved dramatically since



the 1960s, child quality indicators such as levels of educability,
morbidity and nutritional status show that much remains to be done.
Improvements in these indicators seem to have stalled and in some
cases reversed in the last decade. These indicators are
considerably worse for children from poor households, who are less
likely to attend school and more likely to be malnourished than the
average Kenyan child. Of the 6 million children in Kenya under the
age of six, about half are from families below the poverty line.
4.      The demand for early child development services in Kenya has
resulted in the establishment of a large network of child
development centers, mostly in rural areas, by parents of children
who do not have access to privately owned 'nursery schools'. About
19,000 centers covering approximately 1 million children (mostly in
the age group 3-6) have been set up. The community has been the
most important partner in the development of the centers, taking
responsibility for the provision of physical facilities, payment of
salaries, organization of feeding programs, and provision of
learning and playing materials. Some communities receive financial
and supervisory support from NGOs and local governments. In the
1970s, the GOK stepped in to provide training support and
supervision for the centers. In 1984, the National Center for Early
Childhood Education (NACECE) was established at the Kenya Institute
of Education. NACECE was made responsible for the training of
trainers, curriculum development, research and coordination.
District Centers (DICECE) were responsible for the training of
teachers at the district level, inspection, community mobilization
and the evaluation of local programs.
5.      Despite some significant gains in enrollment and community
initiative, there is wide variation in the type and quality of
services provided by these centers. The child development centers
were recently evaluated by government and the key issues were
identified as follows: (1) access to services is low, particularly
for the lowest income groups; (2) wide variation in the level of
physical facilities, trained personnel, supporting services and
activities by center; (3) lack of a policy or services for 0-3 year
olds, although children in this age group are increasingly using
these centers, and much developmental damage occurs during that
period; (4) low public awareness regarding the importance of early
childhood development; (5) caregiver wages vary widely and payments
are irregular; (6) monitoring and supervision are inadequate; (7)
there are no linkages between pre-schools and primary schools; and
(8) levels of funding are too low to allow efficiency and
effectiveness of program implementation. The ability and
willingness of communities to finance and manage their pre-schools
was identified as the critical factor affecting quality and
sustainability. Teacher qualifications, motivation and supervision
were other important factors.
6.      Up till now, parents and communities have mainly been
responsible for developing, operating and managing child
development centers and the government and donors have provided
support for teacher training, curriculum and materials development,
community mobilization and monitoring. Present GOK policy does not
-2 -



address the issue of financial support to communities or households
who cannot afford to pay for child development services. This is
significant because households are contributing $10 per child year
on average for child care. Studies of childcare costs in Kenya
estimate that a minimum adequate package of child development
services will cost 1,000 KSh ($20) per child year. GOK expenditure,
(based on center enrollment of 1 million children) works out to
only $0.50 per child. Corresponding investments at the primary,
secondary and university levels are $17, $168 and $418 for
households and $38, $107 and $1,400 for the GOK (Kenya PER, 1994).
The policy does not cover children from 0-3, a crucial phase for
early child development. Nor is there a policy for linkages between
pre-school and primary education or between pre- school education
and other social services such as health and nutrition. A revised
policy that covers these issues has been articulated by the GOK as
part of the development of the project.
7.      The project seeks to achieve the following impact:
Improve child cognitive and psycho-social development.
Improve child health and nutrition.
Increase school entry/enrollment at the appropriate age.
Reduce repetition and dropout rates in lower primary school.
Process objectives would be to:
Improve the quality of ECD services.
Increase access and participation of the poor.
Improve family capacity for child care.
Increase community capacity to organize, manage and finance
ECD activities.
8       Monitorable indicators will include: (a) child profile at
entry to primary school including cognitive skills, average age at
entry, heights, weights and immunization status; (b) child
development services access rates for poor households; and (c)
primary school dropout rates in the early grades and repetition
rates. These and other indicators will be tracked as part of a
monitoring and evaluation component.
9.      Project Description. The project's core features are a
program for improved teacher performance, combined with community
capacity-building. The project will also pilot a number of
intervention packages intended to improve the quality and
sustainability of ECD. Pilot packages include: (a) increasing
participation in ECD by poor children and communities, through
financial support, including matching grants; (b) improving the
health and nutrition status of pre-school children including those
under 3 years of age; and (c) smoothing the transition from pre-
school to primary school.
10.     The project would comprise the following core components: (a)
improved Teacher Performance Component, which would provide
initial, orientation and refresher training for teachers, as well
as mechanisms for support; (b) the Community Capacity Building and
Mobilization Component which would improve parenting skills and
strengthen the organization, management, supervision and quality
-3 -



control of ECD services and develop the communities' capacity to
mobilize and manage local resources, as well as monitor their
utilization. The pilot components would include: (a) Community
grants to assist community-managed ECD centers that are constrained
by low levels of funding, to pay salaries of pre-school teachers,
school materials, health and nutrition services, subsidize fees for
the poorest children and improve school facilities; (b) Health and
Nutrition Services which would develop a replicable model,
emphasizing prevention and promotion, to optimize the health and
nutrition status of pre-school children at the community level; and
(c) Pre-school to Primary School transition pilot in those primary
schools which have pre-schools attached, which would seek to
provide continuity in the curriculum and teaching methodologies
between pre-school and primary schools. A regular monitoring system
as well as a mid-term and final evaluation will be set up to
evaluate the impact of ECD services and to assess the differential
effects of diverse ECD packages and delivery systems on child outcomes.
11.     Project Implementation. The project will receive overall
policy and strategic direction from an inter-sectoral ECD Project
Implementation Committee, chaired by the Permanent Secretary,
Ministry of Education (MOE). The Committee will meet at least once
a quarter to discuss and approve work plans and budgets, review
project progress and impact and discuss policy issues arising from
the implementation of the project. The pre-primary section in the
MOE will be strengthened, and the head who will be named project
coordinator, will (a) be the Secretary of the ECD Committee; and
(b) facilitate project coordination and implementation, and monitor
project progress and (c) handle IDA's administrative requirements.
12.     NACECE will be responsible for implementing the core
components of Improved Teacher Performance and Community
Mobilization and Capacity Building. NGOs will assist in the
implementation of the Community Grants and Health and Nutrition
Pilots. Two implementation models will be tested under the pilot
components. In the first model, NGOs will be selected at the
national level to implement the pilots in selected districts,
subject to the approval of the ECD Project Implementation
Committee. The selected NGOs will support other community-based
organizations in grassroots project implementation. In the second
model, the GOK will implement the pilot components with
collaborating agencies at the district level, through District ECD
Project Implementation Committees and DICECEs. The transition pilot
will be implemented by the MOE Inspectorate with KIE.
13.     Communities themselves would continue to have principal
responsibility for managing ECD centers. The management capacity of
pre-school committees would be strengthened, parenting education
would be provided and communities mobilized for greater
participation and involvement in ECD services.
14.     Project Sustainability. The project's sustainability will be
determined by the development of an appropriate model, affordable
in the long term. Households, who are already meeting the bulk of
the financing requirements, can be expected to continue and
- 4 -



increase investment as a result of the project's mobilization and
education effort. If the project is successful in meeting its
objectives, then the savings accruing to households and the primary
school system should be a strong incentive for increasing both
private and public funding for ECD. Capacity building at the
community level for the development and management of ECD centers
will enhance program sustainability. From the point of view of
Government funding, the GOK draft letter of policy intent, clearly
makes a commitment to increasing resources for ECD programs. In GOK
budgetary terms, this would imply increasing the share of funding
for this sector from less than 1, to about 2t of the education
budget. Given MOE recognition that the foundation of the education
system is being under-funded, this is a realistic option. By the
end of the project period, initial investment costs funded by IDA,
such as training the backlog of untrained teachers, will no longer
be required. The bulk of on-going recurrent costs ($10-12 million
per year) will continue to be met by communities and households.
GOK contribution will increase to about $2 million dollars per year
to meet increased monitoring costs and for expanding successful pilots.
15.     Lessons Learned From Previous Bank/IDA Involvement. IDA has
supported a number of child development projects in Latin America
and Asia, although this is the first IDA supported ECD project in
Africa. The ability and will of communities to manage and finance
their pre-schools are perhaps the most critical factors affecting
the quality and sustainability of community owned pre-schools.
Communities need to be made aware of the importance and benefits of
ECD services and be willing and able to finance them. Other lessons
learned include the importance of: (a) worker selection, workload,
training and supervision; (b) community and family involvement; (c)
integrated inputs meeting a child's health, nutrition and education
needs; and (d) flexible, non-formal and culturally appropriate approaches.
16.     Poverty Category. Several studies have shown that children
from low-income families have developmental scores that are
significantly lower than those for children from middle or high
income households, and that such deficits can be prevented or
compensated through ECD interventions. The project would increase
access to and improve the quality of ECD services available to
children from poor families. The most backward districts, based on
a composite index of income, child health and nutrition and school
enrollment, have been selected for implementation of the pilots.
17.     Environmental Aspects. The environmental category is C -
i.e., the project does not carry the risk of any adverse impact on
the environment.
18.     Program Objective Categories. The project is targeted to poor
communities and households and will help build the foundation for
the development of the human resources of the poor. The project
will ease the burden of childcare on women and school-age girls,
who are primary providers of childcare services.
19.     Participatory Approach. Local participation in project design
and capacity to implement the project were ensured by the
- 5 -



following: (1) a client consultation study prepared as part of the
preparation process covering about 550 small group interviews in
four different types of settings (pastoralist, settled
agricultural, plantation and urban slum) with parents,
grandparents, siblings, pre-school teachers, leaders and
caregivers; (2) a nationwide sample survey of ECD centers; (3) the
project preparation group constituted by the GOK; and (4)
interaction with the Aga Khan and van Leer Foundations, the two
most important donors to ECD in Kenya, including their
participation in missions. The IDA project preparation team met
extensively with NGOs involved in ECD in Kenya, collectively and
individually. A workshop was held in July 1995, with the
stakeholders - the Government, NGOs, representatives of communities
and donors - to discuss the findings of a number of project
preparation studies prepared with the assistance of a Japanese PHRD
grant. Client consultation studies and beneficiary and center-based
assessments will be repeated at mid-term and conclusion of the
project. National, provincial, district-level and participatory
rural assessment workshops will be held during the implementation
of the project, to ensure information dissemination and feedback.
20.     Project Benefits. The project will bring about quality
improvements in existing ECD services, via teacher-training,
community mobilization and pilot interventions in about 20,000
centers, benefiting 1 million children. An additional 5000 new
centers will be opened, covering 250,000 children. The project is
expected to: (a) reduce grade repetition, and improve completion
rates in primary school; (b) improve lifetime earnings of
beneficiaries; (c) improve child health and nutrition; (d) release
mothers' time for economic activities; (d) release girls' time from
child care; and (e) increase earnings of teachers trained under the
project. In 1993, the financial loss to Kenyans on account of grade
repetition by 700,000 primary school repeaters alone was about $35
million (based on estimates of average primary school expenditure
by government and households together of $55 per child year (Kenya
PER, 1994)). The project is expected to generate a combined fiscal
cost savings to the Government and financial savings to households
of about $7.5 million per year by the fifth year of the project,
based on improved performance in primary school alone. Improving
the management capacity of communities, enhancing women's earning
capacity and enabling elder siblings (usually girls) to attend
school are additional benefits that are difficult to quantify. A
benefit-cost analysis quantifying only benefits (a) and (b) above
gave an economic rate of return of 32%-. The rate of return with
only (a) quantified was 269. The pilot interventions are intended
to test the relative cost-effectiveness of different interventions
such as health and nutrition services and transfer of grants to
communities in need.
21.     Project Risks. IDA involvement could result in the
bureaucratization of a flexible system for the provision of child
development services. The tendency to prescribe teacher
certification and pay scales that ignore the realities of the
market could hurt the normal expansion of pre-school services. The
project is intended to increase the total investment in young
- 6 -



children in Kenya. There is a risk that the project will replace or
reduce other current sources of investment. Poor community
oversight resulting in the community elite capturing project
benefits or the misappropriation of funds is a risk. To reduce
these risks, the project will promote a non-formal approach to
early child development and apply market principles in respect of
teacher certification and pay. Grants will be transferred to
communities on a matching basis to encourage continued community
contribution and there will be considerable investment in capacity
building for the major stakeholders - i.e., parents of pre-school children.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending July 4, 1997.
- 7 -



