Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15426-KE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 10, 1997
Africa Technical Human Development 1
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Kenya Shillings (KSh)
US$ 1 = KSh 55
KSh 1.00 = US$ .018
SDR 1.00   = US$ 1.44124
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1- June 30
ACRONYMS
AKF            Aga Khan Foundation
BVLF           Bernard Van Leer Foundation
CBS            Central Bureau of Statistics
CCF            Christian Children's Fund
CHW            Community Health Worker
DECDIC         District Early Childhood Development
Implementation Committee
DEO            District Education Officer
DICECE         District Center for Early Childhood Education
ECD            Early Childhood Development
GMP            Growth Monitoring and Promotion
GOK            Government of Kenya
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
IDA            International Development Association
KIE            Kenya Institute of Education
LCB            Local Competitive Bidding
MCH            Maternal and Child Health
MOE            Ministry of Education
MOF            Ministry of Finance
MOH            Ministry of Health
MOU            Memorandum of Understanding
NACECE         National Centre for Early Childhood Education
NECDIC         National Early Childhood Development
Implementation Committee
NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
PIM            Project Implementation Manual
PMG            Pay Master General
WMS            Welfare Monitoring Survey
Vice President:     Callisto Madavo
Country Director:    Harold Wackman
Technical Manager:  Ruth Kagia
Task Team Leader:   Marito Garcia



Republic Of Kenya
EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BASIC DATA
A. General Country Data
GNP per Capita (US$) 1995                                              260.0
GNP per Capita (US$) 1994                                              260.0
Area ('000 sq. km)                                                     580.0
Population (millions) 1994                                              26.7
Working Age Population (% of Total) 1993 (15-64 years old)              51.3
Urban Population (% of total) 1993                                      26.0
B. Social Indicators
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000) 1993                                       36.0
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000) 1993                                        9.0
Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000 live births ) 1993                     61.0
Stunting in Pre-school Children (%< -2 s.d. ht/age) 1994*               61.0
Wasting in Pre-school Children (%< -2 s.d. weight/lht) 1994*             7.8
Underweight prevalence (%< -2 s.d. weight for age) 1994*                22.5
Immunization Rate of Infants vs. Measles (%) 1993                       76.0
Gross Primary Enrollment (%, 1993)
Male                                                                  92
Female                                                                91
Gross Secondary Enrollment (%, 1993)
Male                                                                  28
Female                                                                23
Net Primary School Enrollment (%, 1993**)
Rural
Male                                                               73
Female                                                             74
Urban
Male                                                               69
Female                                                             74
Net Secondary School Enrollment (%, 1993*
Rural
Male                                                               II
Female                                                             19
Urban
Male                                                               21
Female                                                             21
C. Public Expenditure on Education
Total Government Expenditure on Education
(in millions of Kenyan pounds) 1994/95                                 1,279
MOE share of total Government Expenditures 1994/95                      25%
MOE share of GNP 1992/93                                               6.7%
* From Kenya Welfare Monitoring Survey II, conducted by Central Bureau of
Statistics/Ministry of Planning and National Development, Nairobi.
** Kenya Welfare Monitoring Survey I, Central Bureau of Statistics, Nairobi






Kenya
Early Childhood Development Project
Table of Contents
1. BACKGROUND .................................I
A. Profile Of The Child In Kenya ..........................................l
B. Early Childhood Development: The Conceptual Basis ..........................................1
C. Child Development Services In Kenya ...........................................2
D. Issues In Early Childhood Development In Kenya ..................................... .    .        3
1. Low Levels of Investment in ECD ..........................................4
2. Quality ..........................................4
3. Efficiency ..........................................5
4. Equity ..........................................6
E. Government Policy And Strategy ..........................................6
1. Sector Policy ..........................................6
2. Sub-sector Policy .........................................6
F. Learning From Other Experiences ..........................................7
1. Lessons from Kenya ..........................................7
2. Other Experiences .........................................7
G. Rationale For Bank/IDA Involvement ..........................................8
H. Role Of Other Donors ...........................................9
2. THE PROJECT ................................              ..                                        10
A. Project Objectives And Strategy ..........................................                        10
B. Scope, Phasing And Targeting ..........................................                           10
C. Detailed Project Description ..........................................11
Project Components ..........................................11
D. Project Management And Coordination ..........................................                    15
E. Monitoring And Evaluation ..........................................                              17
3. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING                                    .        .        .......................... 19
A. Project Cost ...........................................19
B. Recurrent Cost And Pricing Sustainability ......................................... .            20
C. Financing Plan ................................................                                  20
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                    .         .         ............................. 22
A. Project Preparation ............................................... ..                           22
B. Implementation Schedule ................................................                          22
C. Project Implementation Manual ................................................                    23
This report is based on an IDA appraisal mission which visited Kenya in February 1996. This mission was led by
Jayshree Balachander (nutrition management specialist), and included Marito Garcia (human resource economist) who
assumed task management in July 1996, James Kamunge (educator based at the World Bank Resident Mission) James
Green (nutrition adviser), Anil Deolalikar (economist), Kaori Miyamoto (operations analyst), Colin Lyle (accounting
specialist), and Fred Kranz (procurement specialist). The World Bank resident mission staff assisted the appraisal
mission including: Richard Anson (senior operations officer); Nyambura Githagui (NGO specialist); John Nyaga
(audit and accounts specialist); Mbuba Mbungu (procurement); and Peninah Nyakweba (administrative support). The
lead adviser was Jacques van der Gaag (HDD), and peer reviewers were Xavier Coll (LAIHR). F. Reza and V.
Saldanha provided administrative support and assisted in the processing and production of this document. Ruth Kagia
is the technical manager, Harold Wackman is the country director and Kenichi Ohashi is the country program
coordinator.



D.  Procurement  ................................                                 23
E. Disbursements .26
1. Disbursement Percentages .26
2. Required Documentation .27
3. Special Account .27
F. Accounts And Audits           ..28
5. EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS   .                           .30
A. Benefits..30
B. Impact On Women .31
C. Enviromnental Impact .31
D. Project Risks .31
E. Program Objective Category .32
6. AGREEMENTS, ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..                                   33
TABLES
Table 1 Sub-sectoral Allocations of the MOE's Recurrent Budget.                      4
Table 2 Project Cost Summary .19
Table 3 Annual ECD Expenditure Per Child by Source .20
Table 4 Financing Plan .21
Table 5 Summary of Procurement Arrangements .26
Table 6 Estimated IDA Disbursement Schedule .26
Table 7 Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit .27
ANNEXES
Annex A     Letter Of Sectoral Policy
Annex B     Teacher Performance Improvement and Training Component
Annex C     Community Capacity Building and Mobilization
Annex D     Health and Nutrition Pilot
Annex E     ECD Community Grants Component
Annex F     Project Management and Coordination
Annex G     Monitoring and Evaluation Component
Annex H     Detailed Project Cost Breadown
Annex I     Project Implementation Manual Outline
Annex J     Cost-Benefit Analysis
Annex K     Disbursement Schedule by Quarter
MAP IBRD No. 26150



KENYA
EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower                             Republic of Kenya
Implementing Agencies:               Ministry of Education, National Center for
Early Childhood Education, NGOs
Beneficiaries:                       Children ages 0-8 years in low income households
Poverty:                             Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                               SDR 19.3 million (US$ 27.8 million equivalent)
Terms:                               Standard IDA Terms with 40 years maturity
Financing Plan:                      IDA                     US$ 27.8 million
Government of Kenya     US$ 5.3 million
Donors                  US$ 2.0 million
US$ 35.1 million
Commitment Fee:                      Standard (a variable rate between 0-0.5% of
the credit balance, set annually by the
Executive Directors of IDA)
Net Present Value:                   US$ 94 million (see Annex J)
Staff Appraisal Report:              Report No. 15426-KE
Map No.:                             IBRD 26150
Project ID No.:                      34180






KENYA
EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. BACKGROUND
A. PROFILE OF THE CHILD IN KENYA
1.1   The Kenyan child's chances of survival have improved dramatically since the
1960's. The country's infant mortality rate fell from 120 to 62 between 1963 and 1993
and the under five mortality rate from 200 to 96 in the same period. However child
quality indicators such as levels of morbidity, nutritional status and educability show that
much remains to be done. Improvements in these indicators seem to have stalled and in
some cases reversed in the last decade. In the pre-school age group (0-6 years of age),
stunting - an indicator of chronic malnutrition - was estimated to be 34% in the
Demographic and Health Survey (1993), up from 32% in 1987. A 1994 UNICEF survey
found 80% of pre-school children surveyed to have worm infestations while more than
50% suffer from anemia. Amongst primary school age children, a UNESCO survey
(1992) found poor health and nutrition status, rising rates of grade repetition,
absenteeism, poor classroom performance and school dropout. Grade repetition rates are
13% of total enrollment in primary school. About 20% of children who enroll in primary
school do not complete Standard IV, and 57% do not complete Standard VIII.
1.2   Further, these averages mask large differences by economic group and location.
For example, mortality is more than twice as high for children of mothers with
incomplete primary education compared with those with secondary education or higher
and four times as high in the Western and Coast provinces as in Central province.
Malnutrition is 60% higher in rural than in urban areas and higher in children of mothers
with incomplete primary education than those with secondary education. The poorest
decile has a net primary school enrollment of only 62% as compared with 80% for the top
decile. Children from poor households therefore have a higher risk of mortality, are more
likely to be malnourished and less likely to attend school than the average Kenyan child.
Of the 6 million children in Kenya under the age of six, about half are fromfaamilies
below the poverty line.
B. EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT: THE CONCEPTUAL BASIS
1.3   Early childhood development (ECD) is crucial for human capital formation and
for enhancing the educability of children. There is an increasing body of scientific
literature pointing to the importance of the first few years of life from the point of view of
human physical, mental and social development. Developmental deficiencies that occur



Background                                                                          2
during this period are difficult and sometimes impossible to reverse. Inadequate physical
and mental development of children in the pre-school years lead to delayed school
enrollment, and subsequently to poor progress and performance in school. ECD
programs can help upgrade the quality of human resources going into the primary school
system. ECD programs are an excellent preventive investment for groups with potential
learning difficulties. A number of studies have confirmed that deficits in intellectual
development in pre-school children that accompany poverty and malnutrition can be
prevented through improved diets, learning experiences and health surveillance. The
family is the primary provider of the needs of pre-school children for good nutrition,
prevention of disease and stimulation. However, the increasing participation of women in
the labor force, the numbers of female headed households, and changing family structures
and childrearing practices have created new demands for external support. ECD
programs are often the first opportunity for inexperienced parents to learn parenting
skills. Furthermore, ECD programs do release mothers to work and supplement family
income, and elder siblings (especially sisters) to go to school.
1.4    Early childhood development programs are usually based on a curriculum arising
formn a specific theory of early education - the cognitive developmental approach (where
teacher and child are active participants), the didactic instruction approach, where the
child is passive and the traditional play based nursery school approach in which the
teacher is passive, but the child is an active participant. Evaluations of the different
approaches suggest that the choice of approach is less important for success than
consistency and quality. Flexible and culturally appropriate approaches are most cost-
effective and sustainable.
Box 1 Childcare on Tea Plantations
A client consultation study describes the daily routine of a tea-picker in Kericho, mother of a one-year
old in her words as follows: "I'm up by 4.30 am, make uji (porridge), after drinking, wash utensils, and
leave at 6.30 a.m. to pick tea. After I leave, my older pre-school child takes care of the baby, taking him
with her to the ECD center. I come home by 5 p.m. After work, I look for vegetables and on Sundays I
fetch firewood. While the vegetables cook, I bathe, and by 6 p.m., I cook supper. By 7.30 p.m. we are
all in bed! The elder daughter washes up. I spend 2-3 hours of my waking time each day with my
children".
C. CHILD DEVELOPMENT SERVICES IN KENYA
1.5    The demand for ECD services in Kenya has increased as a result of increasing
numbers of nuclear families with working/single-parents, most of whom are poor,
seeking safe custodial care for their children. Results from the Kenya Poverty
Assessment (1995) indicate that a third of rural households are female-headed. These
rural households, and those in plantation areas and urban slum settings, have the greatest
need but are least likely to have access to quality child care. (see Box 1). Parental interest
in giving children a head start in education and providing opportunities for socialization
are other reasons for the growth of ECD centers. More and more children entering
primary schools have had some pre-school experience and in some areas, pre-school
experience is mandatory for admission to primary school.



Background                                                                       3
1.6    The demand for ECD services has resulted in the establishment of a network of
about 20,000 child development centers, mostly in rural areas, covering 1 million
children primarily in the age group 3-6. The community has been the most important
partner in the development of the centers, taking responsibility for the provision of
physical facilities, caregiver salaries, organization of feeding programs and the provision
of learning and play materials. There is, however, wide variation in the type and quality
of services provided by these centers. Some communities receive financial and
supervisory support from NGOs and local govermments.
1.7   In the 1970s, GOK                         Box 2 NACECE
stepped in to provide training   NACECE has been developed largely with the assistance of
support and supervision for the    the Bernard van Leer Foundation and has been deeply
centers. In 1984, the National    influenced by the philosophy and style of the NGO. The
Center for Early Childhood       institution can take much credit for the community
mobilization that has resulted in the rapid expansion of ECD
Education (NACECE) was           centers in Kenya and for a having developed a quality
established at the Kenya         training program. NACECE is a leader in ECD in the Africa
Institute of Education.          region, acting as a Regional Resource Center and the interim
NACECE was made                  home of the Africa ECD network currently being developed
responsible for the training of  as a working group of the Donors to African Education
responsible             ~~~~(DAE) group.
trainers, curriculumD
development, research and
coordination. Over a 10-year period, with the assistance of the Bernard van Leer and Aga
Khan Foundations, NACECE has developed a highly effective training curriculum and
methodology incorporating adult learning and participatory technologies.
1.8    The present ECD program is administered through three sections of the Ministry
of Education: (i) NACECE, which is responsible for technical aspects such as training
and curriculum development; (ii) the Pre-school Section of the Ministry of Education
which handles administrative matters such as registration of pre-schools, coordination
with donors and NGOs, policy guidelines, and inter-sectoral coordination; and (iii) the
MOE's inspectorate department which is responsible for the maintenance and monitoring
of standards of the program. The Ministries of Health and Culture and Social Services
sometimes collaborate in the provision of services. In order to increase participation of
various partners at the grassroots level, MOE decentralized the program by establishing
the District Centers for Early Childhood Education (DICECE), which are responsible for
training of pre-school teachers, developing localized curriculum and mobilizing parents
and communities and sponsors. In 1995, 57 districts in Kenya had full fledged (with
residential training facilities) or associate DICECEs.
D. ISSUES IN EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT IN KENYA
1.9    Despite a number of significant achievements in pre-school enrollment, some
important issues relating to program funding, quality, efficiency and equity need to be
addressed.



Background                                                               4
1. Low Levels of Investment in ECD
1.10  Although well documented research findings stress the importance of early
childhood development for long term human resources development, GOK investment in
this sub-sector is very small. The government budget allocated to pre-school education
was less than one percent of the Ministry of Education budget in 1994. Sub-sectoral
allocations within the MOE's recurrent budget are shown in the following table:
Table 1 Sub-sectoral Allocations of the MOE's Recurrent Budget (Percentage shares)
1992/93           1993/94           1994/95
Pre-primary             0.1               0.1                0.1
Primary                57.0               59.0              55.0
Secondary              17.0               18.0              21.0
University             17.0               16.0              17.0
Other                   8.0               7.0                7.0
1.11  GOK's contribution to pre-primary education is approximately US$ 0.60 per child
year. Corresponding GOK investments at the primary, secondary and university levels
are US$ 38, US$ 107 and US$ 1,400 (Kenya PER, 1994). The contribution of local
governments is uneven and diminishing. Government funds are almost exclusively for
payment of salaries. The 1994 Welfare Monitoring Survey (CBS) showed that
households are already spending about KSh 1,000 per year on average per pre-school
child on ECD services, an amount comparable to household expenditure on primary
education. Clearly GOK is under investing in this sub-sector. However, the
Government's role mobilizing communities and parents should be emphasized alongside
this scaling-up of investments in ECD. The sustainability of the program depends on the
ability of commnities to support the new allocations to this sector.
2. Quality
1.12  Untrained Teachers. As a result of the low overall funding levels for this sector,
associated problems in the quality of pre-school ECD program have come into focus, the
most serious of which is teacher quality. Pedagogical and practical skills in early child
development are important for the effectiveness of ECD teachers and their capacity to
deliver a quality ECD program. Only a third of the pre-school teachers have had any
training in early childhood development. The present training system which is based on a
two-year in-service course introduced in 1985 had been developed and refined with donor
support and experience. Training is conducted in 18 residential DICECE in the country.
The main problem with the system is that training capacity is roughly 1,200 teachers per
year against a backlog of about 17,000 who need training and another 5,000 who require
refresher training. Under the present system, 20% of the training cost is borne by the
trainees or communities who sponsor them. Community sponsorship of teachers is poor
as many cannot afford to pay training costs.



Background                                                               5
1.13 Inadequate SupervisionlDICECE Capacity. Each DICECE supervises on
average 350 pre-school centers--from 50 in the smallest district to 760 centers in the
biggest district. With a typical staff of 6 persons per DICECE of which half of the
positions are vacant, and little or no transportation facilities, supervision is inadequate
particularly in districts with dispersed populations. Many centers are not visited at all by
supervisors who themselves are not sufficiently funded to move around their allotted
areas.
1.14 Virtual Absence of Health and Nutrition Services. The period from birth to six
years of age is the most vulnerable phase of a child's growth and development, when
adequate care and a sufficient diet are required for building a strong and healthy
individual. In existing pre-school centers health and nutrition services are hardly
provided. A 1991 UNICEF evaluation indicates that only 20% of the centers had any
form of feeding programs. Health check-ups, growth monitoring and immunization are
generally not performed in these centers.
3. Efficiency
1.15 Community Capacity. Community pre-schools are poorly organized and
managed. The overall resource constraint is exacerbated by the lack of initiative and
capacity of the pre-school committees to raise and manage finances. Communities do not
provide adequate support to teachers, compensate them poorly and are reluctant to
improve facilities, provide materials or attend meetings. In many communities classes
are held in the open and under trees. There is generally overcrowding as the space overall
is small and classes are usually large-ranging from 20 to as many as 100 children.
Improving the ability and will of the community capacity to manage the pre-schools is
critical to improving the efficiency of the system.
1.16 Participation of Under-Three Year Olds. The first three years are crucial in the
physical and psycho-social development of a child. In recent years, as a result of
increasing numbers of women joining the labor force, urbanization, increase in female-
headed households and increasing commercialization of farming, many centers in urban
and plantation areas are reporting a larger presence of children under the age of 3 in pre-
school centers. At present GOK has no policy with respect to the care of under threes in
ECD centers and the kinds of services that must be offered to address the special needs of
this age group.
1.17  Conditions in Lower Primary School. ECD centers are oriented to providing a
stimulating child-centered environment where children learn through play. The teaching
philosophy and methods in the lower grades of primary school are not consistent with
ECD experiences causing problems of transition for children entering the primary school
system. The high drop out rates in grades 1 and 2 are partly attributable to difficulty of
children in adjusting to the formal school system. There is therefore a need to reconcile
teaching methods and curricula to strengthen the linkages and smooth the transition into
primary school.



Background                                                               6
4. Equity
1.18  Limited Access. Gross enrollment data from the Ministry of Education indicates
that about 35% of children between 3 and 6 are attending pre-school centers. Net
enrollment is not easy to ascertain although data from the 1994 Welfare Monitoring
Survey suggests a net enrollment of about 15%. Attendance in pre-schools varies
substantially between the beginning and end of school term. District level data indicates
low participation rates in arid and semi arid regions, in parts of the coastal and western
provinces and in urban slums. Access by the poor even within districts with high
coverage are very low. This is due to distance from schools and inability to pay school
fees.
E. GOVERNMENT POLICY AND STRATEGY
1. Sector Policy
1.19  The 7th Kenya National Development Plan (1994-1997) emphasizes universal
primary enrollment by the year 2000 and improved transition to secondary education.
Table I shows the current distribution of the MOE budget which is minuscule for pre-
school education, and heavily skewed in favor of university education on a per capita
basis. Recent policy initiatives for a better balance in intra-sectoral allocation include
cost sharing in public universities and the introduction of bursaries at the secondary level.
These policy initiatives stem from a reduction in the growth of primary enrollment rates
as well as transition rates from primary to secondary. A major review of the education
sector, recently completed, identifies a series of additional cost savings initiatives as well
as costed improvements that the Government can take to reverse the negative trends to
access, equity and quality of education in the country. Discussions are underway to
refine and prioritize these recommendations in order to develop an appropriately timed
and comprehensive action plan from which to move forward.
2. Sub-sector Policy
1.20 The Ministry of Education assumed responsibility for coordinating early
childhood development in 1980. Policy in this sub-sector has evolved over the last
decade and important aspects are articulated in the Sessional Paper No. 6 of 1988 and
National Development Plans (1989/93, 1994/96). Highlights of the policy include:
(a) the principle of partnership between parents, communities, NGOs, donors and
government; (b) recognition of the need to provide integrated services that meet the
social, emotional, cognitive, health, nutrition and care needs of children; and (c) the
importance of empowering families and communities to meet the needs of children.
1.21  A Letter of Sub-sector Policy outlining policies that will be implemented as a
result of the project has been submitted to IDA by GOK (see Annex A). It includes the
following commitments: (a) increased budgetary allocation for the sub-sector to at least
1.0 % of the recurrent MOE budget at expiry of the IDA credit; (b) increased training and
support of pre-school teachers; (c) strengthening of the management of ECD services



Background                                                               7
from the community to the national level; (d) improved sustainability of ECD services
and access by the poor; (e) establishment of inter-sectoral coordination and linkages; (f)
development of policy approaches for the care of children under 3 years of age; and (g)
establishing linkages between pre-school and primary school. The final Letter of Sub-
sector Policy, a condition of Board Presentation, was received by IDA on May 23, 1996.
F. LEARNING FROM OTHER EXPERIENCES
1. Lessons from Kenya
1.22 The Aga Khan Foundation, while evaluating its support to preschools in Kenyan
Muslim communities since 1986, identified the ability and willingness of communities to
manage and finance their pre-schools as the critical factor affecting quality and
sustainability. Communities need to be aware of the importance and benefits of early
childhood education and be willing and able to pay for it. Teacher qualifications and
training and opportunities to network with peers and communities as well as class size
and the availability of teaching aids were also identified as important factors affecting
quality. The foundation has identified the linking of community pre-schools with a
mechanism for training (and supervision) that is technically, organizationally and
financially sustainable.
1.23  The Christian Children's Fund which established an office in Nairobi in 1973 is
assisting 36,000 children and their families in 78 projects in Kenya. The projects include,
but are not confined to support to pre-schools. For all programs, money is transferred to
the community and is managed by a team consisting of a chairperson, secretary and
treasurer with the approval of a parents' committee. Communities have to complete basic
management and financial training and employ acceptable accounting procedures before
they receive funds. The main lesson from the CCF experience is that community
capacity to manage funds is normally distributed with the bulk of the communities having
a satisfactory to good performance. Financial misappropriations had been rare due partly
to the financial controls instituted and to the training in management.
2. Other Experiences
1.24 A World Bank sector report on Early Child Development (Young, 1994) classifies
ECD projects as following one or more of the following approaches: (a) delivering
services to children through home-based or center-based care; (b) training caregivers and
educating parents; (c) promoting community and women's development; (d)
strengthening institutional resources and capacities; and (e) strengthening public
awareness and demand. Significant ECD projects include Integrated Child Development
Projects in India and Bolivia, Colombia's Child Development Project, Mexico's Initial
Education Project, Chile's Parent and Children Program and the Headstart program in the
United States.
1.25  Based on research findings and field experience, the following factors have been
identified as important for effective ECD programs: (i) worker selection, training and



Background                                                               8
supervision; (ii) community and family involvement/participation; (iii) integrated (health,
nutrition, education) inputs; and (iv) flexible, non-formal and culturally appropriate
approaches.
1.26 Worker Selection, Workload, Training, Supervision. Carefully defined
recruitment criteria for workers drawn from the local community so that they have
knowledge of and access to their clients and are trusted by them are the basic common
factors of effective programs. Workloads that are manageable and focus on high priority
tasks, decentralized training systems that are reinforced by networking and supportive
supervision to demonstrate problem solving approaches and provide on the job training
are other important common features.
1.27 Community and Family Involvement. Households and communities bear
primary responsibility for the care and development of children and their participation is
crucial to the success of child development programs. Mothers, fathers, grandparents and
siblings are important caregivers and need to be empowered to provide for the
developmental needs of children. Well designed ECD programs involve the community
in needs assessment (via client consultation studies) and in the implementation,
monitoring and evaluation of the program.
1.28 Integrated Inputs. To meet the holistic developmental needs of a child, health,
nutrition and education inputs are required. Weakness in any one aspect exacerbates
weaknesses in others. For example, the frequency and severity of illnesses is greater in
children who are malnourished than those who are not. Children who are sick and
malnourished are less likely to benefit from stimulation/education inputs. Moreover, the
synergistic linkages between the health, nutrition and psycho-social development of a
child ensure that the benefits of the inputs together is greater than the sum of the benefits
of the individual inputs. It does not follow from an implementation point of view that all
three inputs have to be delivered by a single implementing agency but that their
delivery/availability at the level of the child/community has to be coordinated.
G. RATIONALE FOR BANK/IDA INVOLVEMENT
1.29  Human resources development is the cornerstone of IDA' s social sector strategy
and ECD provides the foundation for human resources development. Available evidence
suggests that such investments yield substantial benefits, in particular for children from
poor households. Current levels of investment in ECD by poor families in Kenya and by
GOK are inadequate to provide the required minimum package of ECD services. IDA
can fill the resource gap and use its vast experience in ECD in Latin America and Asia to
help maximize the returns to the investment.
1.30  The project will increase the effectiveness and efficiency of existing ECD services
in Kenya and will extend access of such senrices in targeted areas and to poor
households. Without the project, the expansion of ECD services in Kenya would be
slower, many of those needing ECD services would not have access to them and the
impact of such services would be less than with the quality improvements that will result
from the project. The project will help implement one of the recommendations of the



Background                                                              9
Kenya Poverty Assessment by developing human resources in poor households and is
consistent with the Kenya Country Assistance Strategy that recommends targeted
interventions for vulnerable groups.
H. ROLE OF OTHER DONORS
1.31  The main donors supporting early childhood education in Kenya for the last
twenty years have been the Bernard van Leer and Aga Khan Foundations. UNICEF
supports ECD activities in 11 districts including training of personnel, community
mobilization, curriculum development, health and nutrition activities and research and
evaluation. The Van Leer and Aga Khan Foundations have been primarily involved in
support to the NACECE and in developing training, community mobilization and health
and nutrition activities. While the financial contribution of the donors is quite small they
have been very important in supporting the indigenous development and expansion of
ECD services in Kenya. NGOs such as the Christian Children's Fund, Action Aid,
CARE and various church groups have sponsored significant numbers of child
care/development centers.






The Project                                                           10
2. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGY
2.1   The development objective of the project is to improve quality and educability of
children in poor Kenyan households. The project seeks to achieve the following impact:
(a) improved child cognitive and psycho-social development; (b) improved child health
and nutrition; (c) increased school enrollment at the appropriate age; and (d) reduced
dropout and repetition rates in lower primary school. An important collateral objective
would be to improve the human capital potential specifically of poor and otherwise
disadvantaged pre-schoolers as measured through increased access to ECD services and
consequent changes in the above impact indicators.
2.2   The project would follow a two-pronged, phased strategy. First, it would help
Kenya systematically upgrade the quality and ensure the sustainability of existing
community owned and managed ECD centers by introducing and adapting best practices
in the management of these centers. Second, it would pilot a set of targeted interventions
to improve access to such services for poor communities and disadvantaged households.
The project would consist of two core components: (a) improving ECD worker training,
performance and supervision; and (b) community capacity building, mobilization and
parenting education. Three pilot interventions will test options to develop cost-effective,
replicable models for: (a) improving the financing of ECD services in poor communities
by way of community grants; (b) raising nutrition and health standards of pre-schoolers,
including those in the particularly vulnerable first three years of life; and (c) smoothing
the transition from pre-school to primary school. Both expansion and pilot-testing would
be introduced gradually in phase with improved community and Government
management capacity.
B. SCOPE, PHASING AND TARGETING
2.3   The project is targeted to 1.5 million pre-schoolers ages 0 to 6 years in poor
households. The program also covers parents of these children Selection of districts for
the implementation of the various pilot packages is based on health and nutrition
indicators, availability of ECD services, primary school enrollment rates, drop out and
repetition rates and income. The project would operate in selected districts throughout
Kenya. It would initially concentrate on upgrading the performance and management of
around 20,000 existing ECD centers which serve an estimated one million pre-school
children through teacher training and community capacity building. During this first
stage, pilot mechanisms for increasing ECD participation by poor children and
improving the scope and coverage of services would be developed and refined. A second
stage, involving the implementation of those pilot mechanisms along with expansion of
ECD services to new areas, would take place as soon as the core program improvement
components have stabilized. Thus implementation of the proposed nutrition and health
package, transition program and community grants would take place during the second
stage. Necessary strategic adjustments will be made at the end of the third year after a



The Project                                                             11
mid-term evaluation and last two years of the five year project will be devoted to a
consolidation phase.
2.4   The Health and Nutrition component will operate in 14 districts namely, Lamu,
Kiambu and Thika plantations, Isiolo, Makueni, Mwingi, Garissa, Kisumu, Migori,
Baringo, Trans Nzoia, Samburu, Turkana and Mt. Elgon. The Community Grants Pilot
component will be carried out in the following districts: Taita Taveta, Mombasa Tana
River, Nyeri (Kieni) Tharaka Nithi, Wajir, Siaya Nyamira, Suba, Keiyo, Nandi,
Marakwet, Narok, Bomet, Busia and Nairobi slums. The transition pilot will cover all
districts but only in primary schools which have a pre-school within the compound.
C. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Project Components
2.5  Improved Teacher Performance Component (US$ 5.0 million). The teacher is
a key determinant of service quality at the ECD center and his/her effectiveness is
determined by the teacher's qualifications and training, supervision and support. At
present, initial teacher training consists of a two year in-service program including 6
residential sessions of approximately 18 weeks during school holidays. About 1,200
trainees are admitted to the course each year but the demand far exceeds the number of
available spaces. "Short courses" are conducted to meet the immediate training
requirements of some teachers who are not admitted to the regular training program. Of
approximately 27,000 pre-school teachers in the country, more than 17,000 have not
received any training. The most pressing issue relating to the ECD effort in Kenya is to
train the vast numbers of pre-school teachers already teaching children.
2.6   The project will improve and expand current training courses. Training will be
offered to 13,000 teachers in the two year training courses respectively over the project
implementation period. The two year courses will take place in districts with facilities for
residential training. A nine-month induction course will be organized for the training of
trainers (TOT). The TOT will be improved to include adult learning and participatory
methods skills. 250 DICECE trainers will receive training during the course of the
project. The Pre-school Teacher Education Panel would meet at least once every six
months to review the training plan and recommend changes. The additional training
needs will be met by a combination of the following strategies: (a) staffing of DICECEs
up to the full complement of six trainers and upgrading of select Associate DICECEs; (b)
a revision in the content and methodology of each residential session; and (c)
identification of alternate resources including distance education for the training of pre-
school teachers. A covenant to ensure adequate staffing of the DICECEs with qualified
persons will be included in the credit agreement.
2.7   A five week orientation course will be organized for 8,550 teachers in the first
three years of the project. This course would help meet the needs of untrained teachers
who cannot be admitted initially to the two year program and will provide the foundation
for later in-service training. This overview course would consist of 5 modules covering



The Project                                                             12
basic child development, health and nutrition, pre-school activity areas, participation,
parent education and professionalism. The course will be offered in locations accessible
to the ECD teachers. Course notes would be prepared in a loose-leaf notebook format so
that the same materials can be built upon during later training programs. Short courses of
two week duration will be conducted to serve the needs of refresher training and to help
trained teachers upgrade their skills. NACECE will be responsible for developing the
introductory course and evaluating its implementation in collaboration with the Pre-
school Teacher Education Panel. Costs associated with this course include the
development of curriculum, printing of course materials, training of trainers and fees for
trainers. Participants will be required to make a contribution toward the cost of training.
2.8   Teachers will receive supportive supervision from DICECE staff and other MOE
personnel and opportunities to meet in an in-service review/training session at least once
every term and to network and share experiences. The selection of teachers for training
and the examination process will be streamlined. Details of this component are included
in Annex B.
2.9   Community Mobilization and Capacity Building (US$ 3.5 million). This
component is designed to: (1) mobilize parents and communities to increase the rate of
enrollment in ECD and improve the quality of ECD services; (2) improve the
community's capacity to organize, manage and monitor ECD services; and (3) to equip
parents and communities with relevant parenting skills. A detailed description of this
component is included in Annex C.
2.10  Project orientation sessions will be held at the national and district levels to
familiarize personnel from the different ministries and NGOs about project objectives and
activities. Traditional venues for community mobilization such as harambee (fund
raising) meetings, folk media, agriculture shows, PTAs, religious meetings and barazzas
(meetings of the chief) will be used as opportunities to promote ECD. Community based
resource centers will be developed in targeted districts. Linkages will be made with
existing Family Life Training Centers. IEC materials including posters, flash
cards/charts, radio programs and other mass media campaigns will be developed as part
of a social marketing strategy to improve ECD. In districts where pilot activities are
proposed, community participatory development workshops will be used to build
management capacity in pre-school committees. Communities will learn to prioritize
ECD needs and inputs, elect a management board and define the tasks of the office
bearers. These will include defining gaps in service and how to fill these, identification
of available resources and coordination of inputs, as well as supervising performance.
This training will be a prerequisite for communities receiving the pilot components. The
target for this sub-component is to build management capacity in a total of 4,500
communities during the implementation of the project.
2.11  Caregivers who will receive parenting education will include mothers,
grandmothers and childminders employed to provide care for very young children. The
training will cover the following subjects: milestones of child growth and development,
needs of children in different phases of growth and development, how children learn, care
and stimulation, the role of play, etc. The training will be conducted through workshops,



The Project                                                             13
seminars and demonstrations lasting for about 2 weeks. Participatory approaches will be
used. Each training session will cover about 30 caregivers. This component will be
implemented where necessary with the assistance of NGOs who will be contracted at the
district level. Costs associated with this component include development of
communication materials, training, transportation and meeting costs.
2.12 Health and Nutrition Pilot (US$ 4.5 million). The health and nutrition
component would test a replicable model emphasizing prevention and promotion to
optimize health and nutrition standards of pre-school children at the community level.
The component would initially focus on two target groups: children 3-6 years of age who
attend ECD centers, and children 1-3 years of age who constitute the next generation of
center beneficiaries. Efforts will also be made to involve the lower primary classes. The
principal interventions would be improved caring practices and community-based health
and nutrition services. Attention would be paid to improving growth patterns of children
under 1 year of age through parent education for better maternal breastfeeding and
weaning practices, immunization, feeding and rehabilitation of malnutrition, routine de-
worming in high-prevalence areas, micronutrient supplementation (iron, Vitamin A and
iodine in goiter areas), health, nutrition and developmental screening at entry to and exit
from ECD centers, diagnosis and treatment of common conditions, as well as referral to
higher levels of care (health center/district hospital). Parental education will also be
provided to promote improved health behavior and child care in the home and
environmental health.
2.13  The health and nutrition pilot will be implemented in about 2,000 existing and
new centers in 10 districts selected on the basis of high levels of stunting and low levels
of service coverage. The component would test two different modes of delivery: (a) a
GOK model, where the pre-school committee selects a community health worker (CHW)
and the health department provides technical supervision and provides supplies; and (b)
an NGO model, where a community selected CHW receives support from an NGO who
does the initial training and periodic follow-up in collaboration with the health
department. The pilot would be implemented in five different divisions annually
beginning in the second year of the project and would finance training, equipment,
medications, and incremental operating costs. Any procurement of drugs and supplies
under this component will conform to Bank procurement guidelines. Details of this
component are described in Annex D.
2.14 Community Grants/Support Pilot (US$ 5.0 million). The objectives of this
component are: (a) to assist the poorest communities in developing financially viable and
sustainable ECD services; (b) to assist the most needy pre-school children to access ECD
services; and (c) to test community-based innovations for financing, managing and
implementing ECD efforts. The WB (1995) series of studies on early child development
show that community owned and managed early child development centers (ECD) rely
almost exclusively on parents' fee contributions for operating and maintenance costs, and
receive virtually no direct contributions from government. These centers lack sustainable
financing since fees are inadequate and irregular and are therefore insufficient to pay for
recurrent costs such as teacher salary, learning materials, maintenance of facilities or for



The Project                                                             14
feeding or health services. Committees need to improve the sustainability of these
centers and develop alternative models for ECD.
2.15 This pilot will provide ECD grants for 2,000 community/parent-owned ECD
centers in order to provide them with a steady income stream to meet monthly recurrent
costs. The maximum grant amount per center over the four years of the project will be
KSh 125,000 ($2,500). One model proposes that an ECD Trust Fund be created where
applicable. The Trust Fund will be held in a protected interest bearing trust account in
the nearest approved bank with three signatories designated by the ECD Committee. The
account can be used to pay for the center's eligible expenditures (such as augmenting
teachers salaries, learning materials, center improvements, bursaries and school health
and nutrition). Every month the ECD committee will deposit the fees collected and make
withdrawals against pre-approved budget for eligible expenditures which must be
submitted together with the withdrawal request. Every quarter, the statements of
expenditure will be sent to the DICECE/NGO with monthly budgets attached for
accounting and auditing purposes.
2.16 The annual interest earnings on capital would then enable the community to fund
a significant proportion of the operating expenses of the ECD center. Parents will
continue to pay fees (except where it is agreed that fees may be waived in respect of the
poorest families) and any savings can be used to periodically increase the capital fund.
The community will be encouraged to further build up the fund since inflation is likely to
eat up the capital if no new funds are added or if fees are not consistently collected.
2.17 This financing mechanism is intended to make the ECD center financially self-
sustainable beginning in the third year of the project. The purpose of the piloting is to
understand and learn from the experience. Technical assistance in self-management,
accounting, fund raising (by income generating activities), planning and budgeting will
be provided. A description of the procedures for selecting the centers, making the award
and accounting for the funds at each level is in Annex E. Individual approaches will be
detailed in a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to be signed with the selected NGO
and approved by IDA.
2.18 Pre-school to Primary School Transition: (US$ 0.8 million). The high drop
out rates between the first and second grades in Kenya have been attributed in large
measure to the harsh learning environment in lower primary schools. It is proposed to
remedy this situation by harmonizing the curriculum and teaching methods in the lower
primary school with those of pre-school. This component will be piloted in those primary
schools which have pre-schools attached, i.e., those that share the same premises and
management committees. The component will facilitate interaction between the pre-
school and lower primary classes. Project inputs will include the development of
teaching methodologies and curriculum for lower primary school, retraining of primary
school teachers, field education officers and primary teachers' college tutors.
Appropriate teaching materials will be developed.
2.19  Institutional Strengthening, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$ 9.7 million).
This component will strengthen the ECD section of the Ministry of Education and



The Project                                                             15
NACECE to manage and implement the program. This involves training and capacity
building for national and district level management. It also involves the set-up of
monitoring and evaluation capacity.
D. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION
2.20 The National Steering Committee. A description of project management and
coordination arrangements is in Annex F. The project will receive overall policy and
strategic direction from an intersectoral ECD Implementation Committee (NECDIC)
chaired by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education. The composition and terms
of reference of the committee must be satisfactory to IDA. The Committee would meet at
least once a quarter to discuss and approve project work plans and budgets, review project
progress and impact and discuss policy issues arising from the implementation of the
project. Constitution of the NECDIC is a condition of Board Presentation.
2.21  The ECD Section of MOE. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education
(MOE), would have overall responsibility for project management, coordination and the
overall flow of project funds. The ECD Section in the Directorate Division of the
Ministry of Education will be strengthened and the head, whose qualifications and
experience will be satisfactory to IDA, will be named Project Coordinator. The Project
Coordinator will: (a) be the Secretary of the ECD Implementation Committee; (b)
facilitate project coordination and implementation and monitor project progress; and (c)
handle IDA's administrative requirements. The ECD section will be strengthened with
new professional positions for Monitoring and Evaluation, Health and Nutrition and
Community Capacity Building, Accounting and Supplies, and two support staff. These
position have all been filled up.
2.22 The National Center for Early Childhood Education. NACECE is managed
by a Coordinator and Deputy Coordinator and has 12 professional staff in 6 sections
responsible for training, curriculum, child growth and development, community
education, resources management and research and evaluation. The filling up of key
vacancies is a condition of effectiveness. Proposals for strengthening this establishment
are under consideration of the Kenya Institute of Education. Job descriptions of existing
staff and a staff development plan satisfactory to IDA are to be included in the Project
Implementation Manual. Funds have been allocated for obtaining the services of
technical specialists as necessary. Assurances will be sought that NACECE will be
staffed with suitably qualified persons throughout the project period.
2.23 The District/Municipal Steering Committee. An intersectoral District ECD
Implementation Committee (DECDIC) will be constituted at the district municipal level
and would meet each month to plan and monitor project implementation and coordinate
the activities of all actors involved in the delivery and promotion of ECD services at the
district level. The Committee will be chaired by the District Education Officer and the
Program Officer, DICECE will be the Secretary.
2.24 District Centers for Early Childhood Education. DICECEs will be staffed up
to the full existing establishment of 6 trainers and staff strength will be increased to 8 in



The Project                                                             16
some DICECEs by the end of the project. This will involve the filling up of 66 vacant
positions (for which the process has already been initiated by the Teachers' Service
Commission), and the establishment of essential new positions during the course of the
project. Supportive technical supervision of pre-school teachers and their ECD activities
would take place through quarterly visits from DICECE trainers. DICECE will be
strengthened with necessary equipment and supplies and improved mobility. NACECE
would have a general oversight role in regard to DICECE supervision. Assurances will
be sought at negotiations that DICECE will be adequately staffed during the project
period.
2.25 Pre-School Committees. Communities themselves would continue to have
principal responsibility for ECD centers. The management capacity of pre-school
committees would be strengthened, parenting education would be provided and
communities would be mobilized for greater participation and involvement in ECD
services. Pre-schools attached to primary schools would be managed by statutory
community primary school committees, whose membership would expand to include the
pre-school teacher and representatives of parents of pre-school children. Terms of
reference and composition of the committees are elaborated in the Project
Implementation Manual must be satisfactory to IDA.
2.26 Management of Individual Components. (a) NACECE will be responsible for
implementing the core components of Improved Teacher Performance/Training and
Community Mobilization and Capacity Building. (b) Two implementation models will
be tested under the Community Grants and Health and Nutrition components. In the first
model, NGOs will be selected at the national level to implement the pilots in selected
districts according to a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) signed by the NGO and
GOK and approved by IDA. The signing of an MOU with at least two national NGOs is
a condition of credit effectiveness. The selected NGO will mobilize the communities,
administer grants, supervise related activities, train Community Health Workers and
Committees and provide logistic and material support for the activities agreed upon in the
MOU. In carrying out the above activities, NGOs will work in collaboration with
established government machinery and other agencies in the district. Criteria for
selection of NGOs at the national level include an established working relationship with
GOK, experience in child development activities, i.e., acceptance to work in targeted
districts, readiness to account for all financial transactions as laid down in the MOU and
capacity for community mobilization particularly in the administration of grants. In
addition, the national level NGOs must contribute counterpart funds to cover overhead
administrative costs and project activities and have financial management capacity. The
NGOs will be reimbursed for their services for utilization of funds for eligible
expenditures according to the MOU. The NGOs shall raise a minimum of US$ 100,000
or 25% of the cost of the proposed activities implemented by them. In the second model,
GOK will work closely with the ECD committees to implement the same activities as
listed above in the NGO model. GOK may contract district level NGOs where
applicable. Funds will flow directly to the districts, where they would be disbursed
according to work plans approved by NECDIC and DECDIC. (c) The Transition Pilot
will be implemented by the MOE inspectorate and KIE.



The Project                                                             1 7
2.27 Coordination with the Ministry of Health. At the national level, an officer to
be designated the Health and Nutrition Officer (HNO) will be responsible for the
coordination of the Health and Nutrition component. The officer will chair a H&N
working group to assist in the coordination and monitoring of the component. The
Working Group will have representation from the MOE, MOH, KIE, Inspectorate, NGO
and selected districts. The HNO will represent the MOE in the MOH National Technical
Committee to ensure understanding of policy issues and keep the National Committee
informed of the project progress. The Ministry of Health will be represented in NECDIC.
At the district level the DICECE will have a Health and Nutrition Officer (HNO) to
coordinate the Health and Nutrition Component. A Health and Nutrition Committee will
be constituted to assist the officer in planning, implementation and monitoring of the
component. The Committee will work closely with the divisional staff to plan and
budget, implement and monitor the project activities. The health and nutrition officer
will report on the project progress to the District Health Management Team (DHMT).
The DHMT will be represented in DECDIC to ensure interdepartmental coordination in
the implementation of the project.
E. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
2.28 An effective monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system will be an integral
component of the project. The M&E component will have three goals: first, to track the
supply of ECD and other inputs in the project; second, to monitor project outcomes, such
as increased participation, especially by disadvantaged groups, in ECD centers and
improved quality of ECD services; and finally, to evaluate the impact of the project and
its components, on measures of child outcomes, such as the cognitive, social and physical
development of children. A detailed description of this component is in Annex G.
2.29 The M&E system will comprise three elements: monitoring, evaluation and
special studies. Monitoring of input utilization and process outcomes will be performed
largely at the center level by means of child cards, center registers and wall charts, and a
survey of ECD centers. Center teachers or workers will aggregate information from child
cards each month onto a center register and a wall-chart that would be put up in the center
facility. The center register will also include information on input use, number of
supervisory visits, and time spent by the center worker in major activities (e.g., teaching,
health and nutrition, counseling, training, etc.). These data would be transmitted each
quarter to the DICECE office, where it would be entered in a computerized database and
analyzed. Simultaneously, the database would be transmitted to the NACECE and the
MOE.
2.30 An important element of the MIS will be the supply of certain aggregated
information and profiles from the DICECEs to each of the centers in the district for
effective planning purposes. For instance, centers will receive information on how their
enrollment trends, nutritional status indicators or community mobilization efforts
compare against those of other centers in the district. The pointing out of specific areas
of weaknesses and strengths to each center would permit centers to deploy their resources



The Project                                                             18
differently or to target their ECD services more narrowly to specific age, sex or
socioeconomic groups.
2.31  The evaluation component will attempt to estimate the impact of the project, and
its various components, on child outcomes, using household- and child-specific sample
survey data. It will consist of three parts: (1) a household survey; (2) a survey of ECD
centers; and (3) a participatory beneficiary assessment. For each, surveys will be
conducted at baseline (by January 1997) and repeated at mid-term (January 1999) and
finally at the end of the project (January 2001). For the household survey, sampling
design will have to be developed so as to ensure inclusion of control households that will
not have access to project-supported ECD centers as well as sufficient coverage of
households exposed to different project components. The survey of centers will focus on
physical facilities, involvement of school and PTA committees in center management;
teachers, financing and the frequency and coverage of school-wide health and nutrition
interventions. The participatory beneficiary assessment is intended to assess beneficiary
needs with reference to child development and responses to the services provided by the
project.
2.32 The third element of the M&E system will be special studies that (i) address
policy development issues, (ii) deal with operational research issues, and (iii) evaluate
any specific inputs not covered by the regular M&E activities (e.g., training and
supervision). For example, special studies will be commissioned to monitor the
qualitative changes taking place among parents and communities in behavior and
attitudes, as well as monitoring such things as the effectiveness and appropriateness of
curriculum changes as perceived by teachers.
2.33  At the national level, the overall manager of the component would be the head of
the Monitoring and Evaluation group within MOE. He or she would chair an M&E
working group, whose membership would include representatives from the Ministry of
Education, Ministry of Health, Central Bureau of Statistics, NGOs and technical
consultants. At the district level, a steering committee for M&E would be established
under the chairmanship of the DEO, and would include the District Statistics Officer, the
DICECE Officer and representatives of pre-school committees, and NGOs. This
committee would oversee all M&E activities in the district.
2.34 The M&E component will include a significant amount of training for staff at all
levels: center teachers and workers, DICECE officers and trainers, and NACECE and
MOE staff. The training will cover maintenance and updating of child and center
records, computerized data entry, computerized database management, simple data
analysis, and the use of analysis for planning and implementation purposes.






Project Cost and Financing                                                   19
3. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A. PROJECT COST
3.1   The total project cost is estimated at US $35 million equivalent, including taxes
and physical and price contingencies (US$ 6.5 million) but not including an estimated on-
going contribution by beneficiaries of about US$ 10 million a year or US$ 50 million
during the project period. The foreign exchange component is about US$ 5.3 million or
15% of project cost. Project costs by component are summarized in Table 2. Detailed
project cost tables are provided in Annex H. Project costs are estimated in March 1996
prices and include physical contingencies of 5% for vehicles, furniture and equipment,
5% for supplies, and 2% for maintenance. Price contingencies were calculated 4% in
1996, 6% in 1997 and 6% for each year until 2001.
Table 2 Project Cost Summary (US$ thousands)
Local   Foreign    Total   % Foreign   % Total
Exchange  Base Cost
A. Core Service Delivery Support
1. Improved Teacher Training
2. Community Capacity Bldg.    4,812  120    4,932       2%        17%
& Mobilization           2,976     602    3,578       17%       12%
. Pilot Components
1. Health and Nutrition    2,999    1,483    4,482      33%        16%
2. Community Grants        5,000       0    5,000        0%        18%
3. Transition to Primary     809       0       809       0%         3%
Schools
C. Project Management
1. Institutional Strengthening  6,809    1,928    8,737  22%      30%
2. Monitoring and Evaluation  838     178    1,016      18%         4%
Total Baseline Cost          24,243    4,311   28,555      15%      100%
Physical Contingencies        1,212     216    1,428                  5%
Price Contingencies          4,364      776    5,140                 18%
Total Project Cost           29,819    5,302   35,122               123%
3.2   The estimated cost of community capacity building and mobilization is based on
recent experiences of the NACECE and NGOs such as the Aga Khan Foundation and
Christian Children's Fund (CCF) in Kenya. Teacher training expenses are based on the
current training e-penses of NACECE. Training costs are primarily related to board and
lodging expenses and costs of training materials. Teacher training will be conducted in
existing training centers such as Primary Teachers Training Complexes. Appropriate
rental expenses are budgeted for this purpose. The cost of community grants is estimated
from recent costing exercises of packages of "good practice" early child development
services. They are estimated on a per capita basis. The health and nutrition component
will involve a start up cost -such as provision of weighing scales and materials, and a



Project Cost and Financing                                              20
recurrent component estimated at US$ 2 per child per year. The preschool to primary
school transition component involves the development and testing of curriculum,
orientation of primary school teachers and pedagogic materials. For institutional
development, it is expected that the inspectorate and NACECE will be strengthened with
staff and mobility. For monitoring and evaluation, three surveys are planned and a
computerized MIS system will be installed at the MOE.
B. RECURRENT COST AND PRICING SUSTAINABILITY
3.3   Project incremental recurrent costs will be incurred primarily by expenditures for
administrative support and salaries of incremental personnel involved in project
implementation. A total of 66 professionals will be re-deployed to ECD by the end of the
project period from a teacher pool of over 200,000 primary school teachers managed by
the Teachers' Service Commission. Re-deployment is expected to occur from
underutilized primary school training facilities to pre-school training. There will be no
increase in the total strength of the civil service. Funds required for ECD maintenance
operations at the end of the project period will be US$ 1.5 million a year or about 1.5 %
of the MOE budget. Additional costs of expanding the pilot interventions such as
community grants, health and nutrition materials and services will depend on the success
of the pilots and GOK interest in replicating/expanding them.
3.4   Households and communities are already spending about US$ 10 million per year
on community owned ECD centers. They will continue to be the most important source
of funds for ECD programs in Kenya and the project's sustainability will rest principally
on their continuing support. A significant part of the project is directed to capacity
building of parents and pre-school committees which is expected to enhance the capacity
of communities to generate additional funding for the development of ECD services.
Parents will continue to pay appropriate fees in the community run preschools. The
relative contributions from the main sources of funding are shown in the following table:
Table 3 Annual ECD Expenditure Per o.'Child by Source (US$)
Before Project    During Project  Post Project
Household Communities        10.0            10.0            12.0
GOK                           0.5             1.0              1.5
IDA/Donors                                    4.0             0.5
C. FINANCING PLAN
3.5   The proposed credit of US$ 27.8 million would finance 79. 1% of the project cost.
It will cover 90% of the foreign exchange expenditures, and 57% of local costs. The
government will finance US$ 5.3 million or 15% of the total costs. Donors, through
selected NGOs, will finance 6% of the project cost. Communities and households
through their cash and in-kind contributions for the development and upkeep of the early



Project Cost and Financing                                                      21
child centers, and through user fees for households with young children enrolled are
already contributing about US$ 10 per child year and will continue to be responsible for
the operational cost of the centers during the project period. Table 4 summarizes the
financing plan for the project.
Table 4 Financing Plan (US$ millions)
Foreign Costs   Local Costs   Total       %
IDA                        4.8          23.0         27.8       79
Government of Kenya                      5.3          5.3        15
Donors                     0.5            1.5         2.0        6
Total                      5.3          29.8         35.1       100






Project Implementation                                                   22
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. PROJECT PREPARATION
4.1   A Project Preparation Team constituted by the Ministry of Education was
responsible for the preparation of the project. Members of the team have considerable
experience in managing ECD services in Kenya and in working with donors such as the
Bernard van Leer and Aga Khan Foundations and UNICEF. With the assistance of Bank
missions, the team identified a number of project preparation studies to be prepared with
a Japanese Project Preparation Grant and selected local consultants to carry out the
studies. The studies included the following: (1) a nationwide sample survey of existing
ECD services in Kenya intended to provide a descriptive analysis of the characteristics of
existing ECD centers classified by location and sponsor; (2) a client consultation survey
to understand the behavior of households with respect to ECD services with the goal of
identifying the priority ECD related needs of the target households; (3) ECD services for
under three year-olds to review program experience in providing services for this
vulnerable group and recommend program options; (4) a financing study to estimate the
costs of delivering different ECD services in Kenya and recommend options for
financing; (5) a management study to recommend a structure for the cost-effective and
efficient management and supervision of ECD services; (6) a training study to review
existing training programs and capacity, identify training needs under the project and
resource requirements; (7) a school health and nutrition services study to review existing
school health programs and make recommendations for linking them to service provision
in ECD centers; and (8) a study on the transition from pre-school to primary school to
recommend ways of assessing child readiness for primary school and ensuring a smooth
transition from pre-school to primary school. Final draft reports of these studies were
discussed at a workshop in July 1995 with a group of participants from GOK, donors,
NGOs and managers of ECD services. Donors and NGOs have participated in a number
of brainstorming and information sharing sessions during the course of project
preparation.
B. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
4.2   The project will be implemented over a five year period (1997-2002) in a phased
manner. Phasing of the various pilots will be determined by the pace of implementation
of the core activities - viz. the training of teachers and community capacity building
which are prerequisites for the implementation of the additional pilot activities. The first
year of the project will be devoted to implementing the core components in about 5,000
existing centers and in developing and refining the pilot health and nutrition, grants and
bursaries and primary school transition activities. The baseline survey of the evaluation
component will also be implemented in the first few months after project launch. The
pilot activities will be implemented from the second year onwards and will be assessed
and fine-tuned during a mid term evaluation by the end of the third year. The last two



Project Implementation                                                  23
years will be devoted to further expansion and consolidation of the project. Half-yearly
project reports will be submitted to IDA. Annual work plans and budgets for each fiscal
year (July to June) will be submitted to IDA in January each year, following a joint
review of project implementation. The submission of a draft Annual Work Plan and
Budget for the first year of implementation has been provided to the Bank. A mid-term
review of the project will be held in February 1999. The results of the evaluation,
particularly of the pilots, will be used for purposes of structured learning and any
necessary adjustments in project design and implementation.
C. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION MANUAL
4.3   A draft Project Implementation Manual (PIM) was submitted to IDA on April 1,
1996. The outline for the manual is provided in Annex I. The Manual lists the districts
targeted for implementation of the pilot activities and the criteria for their selection. To
facilitate the process, a ranking of districts on the basis of composite income, nutrition
and education indicators was developed. On the basis of these indicators, GOK has made
a preliminary selection of 24 districts for the implementation of the pilot components.
The further selection of districts for the implementation of each pilot will be made on the
basis of on-going activities in the districts. The selection of NGO led and GOK led
districts, similarly, will be based on the extent and nature of NGO presence in selected
districts. No district will have more than one type of pilot funding and NGO/GOK will
provide leadership in a different district. Implementation of the pilots at the community
level is not expected to begin before a full year of preparation including the selection of
NGOs and training. The PIM lists the activities under each component, persons
responsible, time table and costs. The manual also provides job descriptions,
qualifications, recruitment timetables and work routines for key positions at various
levels. The submission of a final PIM is a condition of Board Presentation. Any
subsequent changes to the PIM will be subject to clearance by IDA.
D. PROCUREMENT
4.4   Management and Procedures. Procurement will be managed by the Preschool
Sub-Division of the Ministry of Education (MOE). Procurement staff would be
reassigned within MOE and provided with further training and assistance. The head of
the PPE section who is the Project Coordinator would report to the Permanent Secretary
of MOE and be further accountable to the Ministerial Tender Board (MTB), MOE, or the
Central Tender Board (CTB) for procurement decisions above certain thresholds
specified in GOK procedures. Measures to modify relevant procurement procedures, in
order to improve efficiency, would be discussed between GOK and IDA in the broader
context of the next Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR).
4.5   As part of the PIM, a draft procurement plan has been prepared. For the first year
of project implementation it would detail the tasks and time periods for processing the
required procurement packages, including IDA reviews. The procurement plan would be



Project Implementation                                                  24
updated periodically and reviewed during supervision missions. Draft bidding documents
for ICB and NCB procurement will be prepared prior to Board presentation.
4.6  IDA Guidelines for Procurement (1995, revised in 1996) and IDA Guidelines for
Use of Consultants (1981) would be followed for all project components funded by the
IDA Credit. The Bank's Standard Documents for Procurement of Goods (1995) and the
Bank's Standard Form of Contractfor Consultants' Services (1995) would be used for
all procurement under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures and
consultancy contracts for Technical Assistance, respectively. Where no relevant contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, other forms acceptable to the Association shall
be used. Eligible domestic suppliers of goods bidding on ICB contracts would receive a
preference of 15% in bid evaluation, in accordance with Appendix 2 of IDA Guidelines.
4.7   Prior Review. All procurement packages for goods, drugs and medical supplies,
materials production and maintenance contracts with an estimated contract value above
US$ 100,000 would be subject to IDA's prior review, in accordance with Appendix 1 of
IDA Guidelines. All consulting contracts with firms with a contract value above US$
100,000 or with individual consultants with a contract value above US$ 50,000 would be
subject to IDA's prior review. In addition, all terms of reference for proposed consulting
assignments would be subject to IDA's prior review. Bank's standard bid evaluation
formats will be used in presenting evaluation reports.
4.8  In order to ensure that appropriate procedures are being followed, the first three
contracts for goods, irrespective of contract value, would be subject to IDA prior review.
During supervision missions, IDA would review one in five randomly selected contracts
which are below these prior review thresholds. Overall, this review process would cover
100% of ICB contracts and about 60% of NCB contracts.
4.9   Procurement Methods. The procurement of vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles,
office equipment, teaching equipment, tools, drugs and medical supplies, etc. would be
carried out in reasonable packages of similar goods through:
(a)   International Competitive Bidding (ICB), if the estimated contract value
per package is more than US$ 100,000.
(b)   National Competitive Bidding (NCB), if the estimated contract value per
package is more than US$ 50,000 but less than US$ 100,000, up to an
aggregate amount of US$ 4.1 million.
(c)   International Shopping Procedures (IS) in accordance with Section III of
IDA Guidelines, on the basis of at least three quotations from reputable
suppliers in two different countries, if the estimated cost per package is
more than US$ 20,000 but less than US$ 50,000, up to an aggregate
amount of US$ 100,000. As an alternative to IS, IAPSO procedures will
be followed as appropriate.



Project Implementation                                                  25
(d)   National Shopping Procedures (NS) in accordance with Section III of IDA
Guidelines, on the basis of at least three quotations from local suppliers, if
the estimated cost per package is less than US$ 20,000, up to an aggregate
amount of US$ 80,000. Community grants component will also involve
very small procurement amrounts as the total grant per center will not
exceed US$ 5000 over the life of the project. Procurement of such goods
would be by national shopping procedures which would aggregate not
more than US$ 1,000,000.
(e)   Pharmaceuticals will be procured by ICB. However, where these are
required to be distributed in remote areas in small kits over the project
period, pharmaceuticals will be procured from UNIPAC or UNICEF up to
an aggregate of US$ 1.2 million may be arranged provided such items are
available in their stocks. Such arrangements are considered appropriate in
this case because of the experience gained by the above agencies in
supplying these kits in the past.
4.10  Training. Annual training plans identifying the nature of training, persons to be
trained, training timetable and venue and estimated cost will be reviewed and cleared
with IDA. Foreign training shall not exceed US$ 120,000 over the life of the project.
4.11  Technical Assistance Consultancies. The selection of consultants to provide
technical assistance, as identified in the project components would be carried out
according to IDA Guidelines, including shortlisting, letters of invitation and evaluation of
technical and price proposals. Advertisements in the General Procurement Notices would
be issued for Goods to be procured through ICB. Consulting assignments that will
become available under this project will also be advertised. This will assist in the
preparation of the short list for consulting contracts. Selections for short-term
assignments and the selection of individual consultants for contracts below the prior
review threshold would follow simplified procedures specified in Part V of the
Guidelines.
4.12 The selection of NGOs to provide Technical Assistance would be on a
competitive basis through shortlisting of several qualified NGOs and otherwise, follow
IDA Guidelines for Use of Consultants.
4.13  The aggregate cost of consultancies to provide Technical Assistance is estimated
at US$ 3.2 million.
4.14  Table 5 summarizes the project elements and their estimated costs and proposed
methods of procurement.



Project Implementation                                                           26
Table 5 Summary of Procurement Arrangements (US$ thousands)
Project Element         ICB      NCB       Other     NIF      Total
A. Goods
Vehicles                  1,747                                  1,747
(1,660)                                (1,660)
Equipment                 1,254      627        208              2,089
(1,129)    (564)     (187)             (1,880)
Phannaceuticals           1,325                                  1,325
(1,193)                                (1,193)
Learning Materials        1,301     3,904                        5,205
(1,170)  (3,513)                      (4,683)
B. Consultancy
Technical Assistance                          2,007     1,230    3,237
(2,007)            (2,007)
Training                                      6,878              6,878
(6,878)            (6,878)
C. Miscellaneous
Community Grants                              3,690     1,285    4,975
(3,690)            (3,690)
Recurrent Expenditures                        9,666              9,666
(5809)            (5809)
Total                  5,627    4,531    22,449    2,515   35,122
IDA-financed          (5,152)  (4,077)  (18,571)            (27,800)
Notes:
1. Figures in parentheses are respective amounts financed by IDA credit.
2. Total project cost include duties, taxes, and contingencies
3. NIF (not IDA-fnanced) components include procurement by other donors.
E. DISBURSEMENTS
4.15   The proposed credit would be disbursed over a five-year period. The project
completion date will be December 30, 2001 and the credit closing date, June 30, 2002.
The IDA Disbursement Schedule is shown in Table 6.
Table 6 Estimated IDA Disbursement Schedule (US$ millions)
FY97     FY98      FY99     FY00      FY01      FY02     FY03
Annual          0.8      2.2       4.4       7.1      6.0       5.4       1.9
Cumulative      0.8      3.0       7.4      14.5     20.5      25.9     27.8
1. Disbursement Percentages
4.16 The project would disburse against 100% of foreign exchange costs and 80% of
local cost of the costs of goods (vehicles, equipment, pharmaceuticals, and leamning



Project Implementation                                                   27
materials), 100% of training costs, 100% of the cost of grants, assistance and 70% of
incremental operating costs. Table 7 shows the allocation and disbursement of the IDA
credit.
Table 7 Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit (US$ millions)
Category of Expenditure  Proposed IDA Allocation  % of Expenditures
Goods                        9.5            100% of foreign and
80% of local expenditures
Technical Assistance         2.0                        100%
Training                     6.9                        100%
Community Grants             3.7                       100%
Recurrent Costs              3.3            90% of expenditures incurred prior
to July 1997 & 60% thereafter.
Refunding of Project          1.0
Preparation Advance
Unallocated                   1.4
Total                       27.8
2. Required Documentation
4.17 Disbursements would be made against standard IDA documentation with the
following exceptions, for which certified Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) would be
used: (i) contracts for the procurement of goods costing less than US$ 100,000-
equivalent; (ii) consultant services contracts by firms costing less than US$ 100,000
equivalent, and by individuals costing less than US$ 50,000 equivalent; (iii) all operating
costs; (iv) all local training, and overseas training costing less than US$ 10,000
equivalent; and (v) community grants. SOEs would be certified by the Project
Coordinator and the MOE.
3. Special Account
4.18  In order to facilitate the availability of funds when needed, on the request of
GOK, an advance out of the IDA credit will be deposited in US dollars in a Special
Account to be opened in a commercial bank which will be maintained by the Central
Bank of Kenya. The authorized allocation to the Special Account will be US$ 1 million.
The Special Account will be established, operated and maintained on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. Upon credit effectiveness the Authorized Allocation will
be withdrawn from the credit amount and deposited in the Special Account. The initial
deposit will be replenished on receipt by IDA of satisfactory documentary evidence of
eligible payments made from the Special Account for goods and services required for the
project. The sub-contracting of the pilot components for health and nutrition and
community grants to NGOs and the use of the Paymaster General (PMG) to pre-finance
project activities should considerably reduce Special Account transactions and simplify



Project Implementation                                                  28
project accounting requirements. Payments to NGOs below the threshold will be
reimbursed directly from the main credit account after proper documentation and
approval.
4.19 Conditions for operating the Special Account will include the provision of
advances to the PMG, to cover 90 days estimated operating requirements of the DEOs
included in the project. For this purpose, the amount to be deposited in the Special
Account will include four months' estimated requirements of the Districts, to enable each
previous three-monthly advance to be fully justified with each request for replenishment
of the Special Account, i.e. the advance outstanding (not justified) at any given time will
not exceed three months' requirements. The PMG account will be used for local
expenditures only. GOK shall make appropriate arrangements to ensure timely release of
the funds.
F. ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS
4.20 The Project Coordinator in MOE will be responsible for the maintenance of
accounts and records to reflect, in accordance with Kenyan and International Accounting
Standards, all project income and expenditure and assets and liabilities. These accounts
will include integrated cost and management accounts: (i) to reflect the financial
performance of each component and sub-component of the project to enable timely and
appropriate decisions to be taken with regard thereto by NECDIC and DECDIC, and to
permit comparison with annual budget provisions and project appraisal estimates; and (ii)
to reflect utilization and availability of external funding by category of expenditure and in
the currency of the lending agreement. These accounts should be the subject of monthly
and quarterly financial performance reports and should be reconciled annually with the
audited financial statements of the project which should be produced within three months
of the end of the period to which they relate. The first financial statements to be
produced and audited will relate to the period ended 30th June 1997. The establishment
of a satisfactory accounting system and supporting internal control structure is a
condition of effectiveness.
4.21  Audits of the project accounts will be carried out, in accordance with Kenyan and
International Standards on Auditing, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association. Terms of reference for the Audit are included in the PIM. Audit reports to
be transmitted to the Association within six months of the end of the period audited will
include a reporting on weaknesses in accounting procedures and internal controls
revealed as a result of the audit and recommending measures to overcome such
weaknesses.
4.22 Assurances were received at negotiations with respect to the following: (1) GOK
will maintain records and accounts in accordance with sound accounting practices, to
reflect the operations, resources and all expenditures in respect of the project; (2) The
Project Coordinator would maintain detailed project accounts and a quarterly statement of
expenditure would be provided to IDA; (3) Accounts and financial statements for each



Project Implementation                                                    29
fiscal year would be prepared and audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (4)
Statements of expenditure (SOEs) would be maintained in accordance with sound
accounting practices for at least one year after completion of the audit and a separate
opinion on the eligibility of expenditures submitted through the SOEs and the SA be
included in the audit; and (5) certified copies of the audited accounts and financial
statements for each fiscal year together with the auditor's report would be furnished to
IDA as soon as available, but no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year.
FY96 audit reports, required under the ongoing Universities Investment Project (Cr.
2309-KE), - i.e., project account, statement of expenditures and special account - were
due on December 31, 1996, and are currently outstanding. Receipt of these reports is a
condition of Board presentation.



Expected Benefits and Risks                                             30
5. EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. BENEFITS
5.1   The first few years of a child's life are crucial in the development of human
capital. Parents are the primary caregivers in early childhood. Improving parenting skills
and providing information, education and communication support have been shown in
ECD projects worldwide to be effective mechanisms for improving child development
outcomes. Successful IDA supported projects include the Tamil Nadu Integrated
Nutrition Project and a number of ECD projects in Latin America, notably Colombia,
Chile and Mexico. The quality of ECD programs is the other important determinant of
impact on beneficiaries. Teacher training and support and parental involvement are
important ingredients of high quality programs. Teacher-pupil ratios and learning
materials also affect program quality. The project will significantly improve the quality
of ECD services in Kenya and improve access for the project groups.
5.2   At the end of the fifth year of the project 20,000 ECD centers would have been
improved in terms of quality, and 5,000 new centers would have been established.
Quality improvements are expected to benefit 1.2 million children. A total of 13,000
teachers, 85% of whom are women, would have received additional training who are
expected to handle existing centers and new centers. In addition a total of 8,000 teachers
who had been previously trained by NACECE will receive refresher courses to improve
their teaching methods. Through community grants, the project will specifically provide
access to improved ECD centers to 200,000 children through grants.
5.3   By providing early childhood education/stimulation, nutrition and health inputs,
the project is expected to generate the following benefits:
(a)   Reduction in grade repetition and improvement in completion rates in
primary schools. These improvements in efficiency will translate into
economic benefits measured by fiscal savings on the part of the
government and financial savings for households. The government spends
US$ 38 per year per child in primary schools while households spend US$
17 for a total of US$ 55 per child per year (Kenya Poverty Assessment,
1995).
(b)   Incremental lifetime eamings of beneficiaries. Earnings differentials of
individual earners by educational achievement are based on a national
household data (Welfare Monitoring Survey, 1994). Direct access by the
poorest 200,000 children to ECD through community grants will provide
learning opportunities and therefore improve lifetime earnings. This will
accelerate the rate of human capital accumulation.



Expected Benefi ts and Risks                                              31
(c)   Improved health/nutrition outcomes which translate into incremental
lifetime earnings of beneficiaries.
(d)   Incremental earnings for parents (especially mothers) as a result of
releasing time for economic activities.
(e)   Increase in schooling participation for young girls, who would be released
from child-care chores.
(f)   Incremental earnings for teachers trained in the program.
5.4   A benefit-cost analysis of the project gave an economic rate of return of 33%, and
a net present value (NPV) estimated at US$ 94 million, making the investment highly
desirable from an economic standpoint. This calculation means that each IDA dollar
spent for ECD translates into roughly US$ 5 of benefits in present values. Only benefits
(a) and (b) were quantified indicating that these returns are conservative estimates of the
real economic benefits from the project. A complete description of the cost-benefit
assumptions is given in Annex J.
B. IMPACT ON WOMEN
5.5   About half of those who will benefit from the improved ECD services are girls.
The project will also ease the burden of child care on school age girls who are often
forced to drop out of school to look after pre-school siblings. Data from the Kenya
Welfare Monitoring Survey, 1994, showed that school enrollment for girls fell by half
when there was a pre-school child in the household. Increasing access to childcare for
poor households can have a far-reaching impact on opportunities for schooling for girls.
Similarly, mothers' time will also be released for other activities.
5.6   More than 85% of ECD teachers are females. Thus, the continued employment
and participation in training activities of the 20,000 female teachers would be a
particularly important impact of the project.
C. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
5.7   The project is rated "C". It would not have any adverse impact on the
environment. The health and nutrition component will improve the health conditions of
the children in the pre-school centers.
D. PROJECT RISKS
5.8   As an innovative pilot project testing the feasibility of mechanisms such as the
transfer of grants directly to communities, the project has substantial risk. Poor
community oversight resulting in community elite capturing project benefits or the
misappropriation of funds is a risk. IDA involvement could result in the



Expected Benefits and Risks                                               32
bureaucratization of a flexible system for the provision of child development services.
The tendency to see child care centers as pre-primary schools and parental pressure to
teach the 3 R's could result in an extension downward of a rote learning system that does
not serve the holistic developmental interests of young children. Further, the tendency to
prescribe teacher certification and pay scales that ignore the realities of the market could
hurt the normal expansion of pre-school services. The project is intended to increase the
total investment in young children in Kenya. There is a risk that the project will replace
or reduce other current sources of investment. To reduce these risks, the project will
involve reputable NGOs with community development experience in Kenya to assist in
the implementation of the pilot components. It will promote a non-formal approach to
early child development and apply market principles in respect of teacher certification
and pay. Grants will be transferred to communities on a matching basis to encourage
continued community contribution and there will be considerable investment in capacity
building for the major stakeholders - viz. parents of pre-school children.
5.9   Another risk is the possibility that investments in ECD will not result in the
expected improvements to the cohort of children entering primary school, and thereby
reducing projected economic benefits. The impact of this risk on project outcomes was
assessed through a sensitivity analysis, and the conclusion is that even with the most
conservative assumptions on the projected reduction in dropouts and grade repetition at
the primary level, the NPV of the project would still be positive.
E. PROGRAM OBJECTIVE CATEGORY
5.10  The project falls under the Program Objective Category of poverty reduction and
would support a program of targeted interventions as part of the national program to
redress the imbalance in economic opportunities, by investing in the human resources of
the poorest households, and the most backward districts in terms of social sector
indicators such as malnutrition and poor access to health and education.






Agreements, Assurances and Recommendations                                33
6. AGREEMENTS, ASSURANCES AND
RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1   Before negotiations, GOK provided the following:
(a)   Draft Letter of Sector Policy (para 1.21).
(b)   Draft Project Implementation Manual including draft Procurement Plan
(para 4.3).
(c)   Draft contract/MOU between GOK and NGOs for implementation of the
pilot components (para 2.26).
(d)   Draft Annual Work Plan and Budget, 1996-97 (para 4.2).
6.2   During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)   The project would be implemented in accordance with the Project
Implementation Manual and that any proposed changes to the Manual
would be subject to agreement by IDA (para 4.3).
(b)   Adequate staffing of the PPE section, NACECE and DICECEs with
suitably qualified persons during the project period (para 2.22, 2.24).
(c)   Submission of half yearly progress reports (para 4.2).
(d)   Annually a joint review of the implementation plan would be completed
by IDA and the Government; annual work plans and budgets will be sent
to IDA for approval (para 4.2).
(e)   the Government of Kenya and IDA will conduct a mid-term review of
project implementation and impact (para 4.2).
(f)    A Special Account would be established (para 4.18).
(g)   Audits would be made by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and in
accordance with TOR satisfactory to IDA. Such audits would include a
separate opinion of the Statements of expenditure and a review of
supporting procurement documentation with respect to the statements of
expenditure (para 4.21, 4.22).
(h)   Selected NGOs at the national level would be used for the implementation
of the pilots, and that NGOs would be contracted as necessary for the
implementation of district plans. The Memorandum of Understanding to
be signed by the selected NGO and GOK will be approved by IDA (para
2.26).



Agreements, Assurances and Recommendations                               34
(i)    Constitution of the ECD Implementation Committee whose composition
and TOR will be satisfactory to IDA (para 2.20).
6.3.  The following are conditions for Board Presentation:
(a)   Receipt of overdue audits for Universities Investment Project,
Cr. 2309-KE, (para 4.22).
(b)   Draft bidding documents for ICB and NCB procurement (para 4.5).
(c)   Final Project Implementation Manual acceptable to IDA (para 4.3).
(d)   Filling up of key positions in the pre-school unit of the MOE including the
Monitoring and Evaluation Officer, Accountant and Supplies Officer as
well section heads of training, community and parenting education and
research and evaluation in NACECE (paras. 2.21, 2.22).
(e)   Establishment of the NECDIC (para. 2.20),
6.3   The following are conditions for Credit Effectiveness:
(a)   GOK makes appropriate budgetary provisions for the first fiscal year.
(b)   an adequate financial management and accounting system for the project
has been established; and
(c)   At least two NGOs have been selected in accordance with the criteria
specified in the PIM and a memorandum of understanding signed between
the selected NGOs and GOK.



Annex A
Page I'of 71
REFPOLIC OF KENYA
- - -     MDNISTRY OF riINANCE
Telegraphic Addresg: 22921                     Of fice of the Mini!ster
FINANCE - XAIROsI                                       P.O. Box 3PO07
Telepi.one: 338111                                              NAIROBI
When replying plea3e quote            '                             NYA
Rn. No. EA/FA 62/240/03/A                               23rd Slay, 1996
and data
Mr. Callisto  adavao,                                              I
Vice Presidert, Africa Region.
World Bank
1818IH Street, N.W.
WASHINGTON .D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Dear tv                                                            I
EARLY CHILDHIOOD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LETTER OF SECTORAL PQLICY
1.   The Government of Kenya hereby s-ubmiits a request for a Wcrld
Bank (1DA) Credit, to facilitate the implementation of an EaIrly
Childhood Developr.ert (ECD) Project.  The paragraphs follo ing
expouna on che policy framewo:k agains_ which the ECD Project, is
conce zved .                                                   -
GENERSOL POLICY 51RAMEWORIK
2.   The Government regards education as an ind-ispensable tool if or
i mDrcvn-.g human resource development to enabl e it to meet m'ore
easily the development challenge whi.ch in- its broadest sense is kbe
im=rcvement of the quality of life. The National Development PUan
emphasizes strategies such as linkinc ed-acation and training at a1l
levels  with  natioral development and  offering  education  tpat
provides necessary skills to promota higher human productivity;
ensuring efficienoy, relevance and cos_ effectiveness in natio6al
human resource development and training efforts; assuring over41
training needs in varicus sectors of the economy; providing eual
opportunities  for education to every Kenyan, etc. as effec& ve
tools for meeting the challenge of development.  Our human resource
include  the  youth who  in  Kenya, comprise  about half of the
populai.-c.onr, and abcu: one thl rd of th_s population, is children
under six years of ace.  Their educaticn, care and developmentl is
provided through the early childhood care and education programme.
Since the sa;xth National Development Plan period (1989-'1993), the
Early Childhood Development concept was expanded to incorporkte
1/2



.           Annex A
Page 2 of 7,
chi ldren unAe -three years of age an" foc-us on such aspect  as
their healthn, n.u-ritior and care.                               * S
3.   The  Seventh  National  Development Plan  (l199-.996)  seeks
provisior  cf  sUstanred  Zarlye Cnildhood  Develcpment, incrensed
access  to  Early  CHildhood  Developmenz  for  all  children   nd
ex=ansion of training fcr reszective personnei and ozher skiIlls
related to Ear6ly Childhood Development ac: P-v ::es.
Early Childhood Care and Education Policy                      I
4.   Tke Mi-nistry of Edcation (MOE) assumed the responsibility of
coordinating early childhood development in 1990.  The Ministry is
charged with the responsibility of the registra-ion; supervision,
tra4ning, staffing, curriculum developmenc and th-he formulaticn of
policy guideline  for Early Childhood De-,elcpmnent.
5.   The po2.'cy oI the suh-sector has evolved over the last decade.
Important aspoects of the colicy are articulated in the sesiaioAal
Paper  NO.6  of  19&6  and Naticnal Development  Pla-ns  (1989/93,
1994/1996) .    The  Government  undtrsccres  the  importance iof
partnership    which  facilitates  coordination  between  parenls,
communrities, non-gover m.ental organizat'ons  (NGO) and bilateral
donors in the  implement_:icn of the ear'v childhocd developmint
programme.    T-he  policy  also  emnpha.zes  the  need  to provilde
integrated services thaz meet t-e social, e=otional, cognitiVQe,
health, nutrition, care and prctect-o.n needs  of children. the
sover-memt  -ntends to s;pport ccmmunities and  families acqnilre
relevant infornaticrn and skillls as wel1 as develon self-reliance Ito
be able co Prc/v-de a scund foundation for their ch.ildren during the
earlv years.  The ourer=:h to the family is necessary given that
th-e family is the -rirme care-giver and educator  and the majcrity of
chldren  have  no  aZcess to  insticu'tionaiized  basic  care  ahd
education.  This approac-. takces cognisance of .he ch.a:ges in the
'am ly  struc-ture  due to monetiza-zon  of  the  econo;my and the
i.ncreased parzicipati^r. of- women :n the labo-r force.
6.   In  recog:n' tion of the recommendations of the  th-ree World
forums namely: the  Convention or. the Rights of the Chi-'ld (198a9,
World Summit for Children  (1990,), and the World Cornereace on
Educatior. For All (EFA) (1990), the Kenya Government has increased
the integrated approach whi.ch allows the participation of a wider
spectrum of service prcvi-ders -
7.   The current objective of the government is to strengthen the
family  in ch, id care,  .mDrcve the Early CIaildhood Development
centres, improve their cuality and expand ac-ess particularly to
children of disadvantaged households azd margina ized ccm^nmunitiei.
8.   There has been a rern-kable expansion of the early childhood
care and edzcatlon centres since the ir-ception of the programme n
early 1980s.  The nun::Ler of pre-school cen-res reached 20C86  n
... Al



- -   Annex A|
Page 3 of 7,
1995 and the enrcment doubled from 485,000 childreI in 19821to
nearly one thIllnor. in 1995.   Near7y 802Q  of these cer.tres are
organized and managed by parents' associations, and the rest ire
sponsored by religious organizati:ns, local authorities, NGOs and
the private sectcr.   however,  more than two thirds of childfen
between aces 3-E years do not have access to these services, and
poorer househol-ds are less likely than others  to benefit from
existing serv-ces.
9.   The .level of gcvernment budgetary allocation fcr pre-sch?ol
education i s re7a`vely low i.e. less  than one per cent of the
Ministry of Education budget.  The bulk of investments in BCD are
borne by parents w1hose budgets are increasingly being sqeezedlby
com- eting household expenditures.  The gcvernment and donors (such
as Ber-nard Van Leer Foundacion, UNICEF and the Aga Khan Foumdation)
provide support for care-giver/teacher training, curriculum and
materials developmenz, community mobilization and moniObrinc.  The
low level of overall public and household funding fcr this s9b-
sector  has  resulted  -n  (1)  low  access to  ehe  ECD servcgs,
particulaily for the lowest income gTrouo (2) wide variations in dhe
quality of physical. facilities, teacher/care-=ivers, and servides
and (3) in,adequate monr-_oring and sipervision.,
'.Q.  The  pr_sen'  "-D programme  is  admin-stered  :hrcuh three
sections of the Ministrv cf Education.These are: (1) the pre-sc:e. ol
section   of   the   DIrectorate  0o   Education   whi crh  hand)es
Ldm nistrat-ve  mat:e.s  relazed  to  rea4 israt.on        - pre--schdol
cen.t-es, coordinatic- w--: dcnors and NGOs, policy guicelines, and
inter-sectoral liaison pert;anirng to childrer's protec:io=, ca.ge,
health ancd .u:r-tion-; (2) the National Centre for Ea-ly Childhdod
Educazio~  (NACECE% at the Kenya I1rslitute of- -uuation wh-ch|is
responsible f-r tra:n4nc o, care-sivers ancd teache-rs and develop'ng
ofJ curriculum; and (3' : ore -reschccl section of the inspecrorate
department which is rsszonsible for the miaintenance and mronizorIlng
of star-dards ^f the programme.                                     I
:1.  In order to ilnczease partic-zaticr of various partners at the
grassroots leve'., MOE cec-ntralized the programme by establish4ng
the District Centres fcr Early ChU'ldhood Education (DICECE) . Thqse
are responsible for training of pre-school teachers, developing
localized curricul um, mcb:I lizing parentE, comrmun,4 ties and sp,onsors.
Cutrrently,  :he governmens  has established DICECE in, 57 Dis:riqts
of the Republoic.
SUB-SECTOR POLICY REFORM1
:2.  A central cbjecm've of Gcvernnent. policy is to strengthen Jhe
present early childhcod centres, improve their cuality, and exp nd
access to th-^se seorments of socie:y cur_ently un,able to have ea ly
childhood devej.cnmen: services.  Tc achnieve th-'s cbjective,  he
government wUi.J.. :se i's mnac.hinery tc increase t1he availability of
ECD serv4ces, wih _pi^ri.ty Cc to ose chil.dren from  disadvantaced
.- 1/4



Annex A
Page 4 of 7
households,  in slums and marginal  areas of the country. - IThe
development 6f  'arly Childhood Development rests in large mea lure
on policies designed to improve the efficiency and equity in tthe
allocation and use of the programme resources as well as! on.
policies  des igned  to  ensure , sustainability.    The  sub-secdtor
policies to be implem,6nted within the pz`oject time shall incllude
the followino:-                                                    I
Increased budgetary allocation
Ex-ansion and harmon4izaticn of the training programs tor
teachers/care-givers and trainers
Strergthening  the  capacity  cf  school  committees ito
provide quality programmes
Improve access of EC= services to the poor
Strengther,ng the management of the ECD programs from the
DICVCE to the Na-ional level
Developi-sg guidelines for l-nkaTe between pre-schoollto
primary sch-ol I
Provide su-oort to the family, particularly in the care
of chl-dren under three years
Defizinticr cf an ECD Centre within the broadened concept
of E'CD
r e-veic-ment of guidelines _or basic services for p e-
schools
G:Guidance on t:e terms and conditions of service for ECD
teacher s and other personncl
De' ritinc  of the rc' e of other partnera
Budgetary Allocation
12.1 Annual Budgetary allocations for the various sub-sectors of
the Ministry are progressively undergoing adjustments, with a vlew
to reduce governme=t fiInancial commitment to tertiary institutions
and increase  allccaticns to pre-primary,  primary and secondary
education.  This policy will ensure that budgetary allocation for
Early Childhocd Development will be at the level tha: can sustain
programmes to be initiated under the proposed IDA Credit upon its
expiry.  Budgerary allocation for ECD in the MOE budget would  e
increased to az  least 1.O. of the recurrent MOE budget at expiry of
the IDA Credit.  The IXA funded ECD project will be refl ected  n
che Public Inve-sz:,an- Programme for 1995/96-:9S7/98 and shall be
.   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



Annex Al
Page 5 of 7
categorized as a "core project" within the MOE budgetary allocarion
priorities.   -
Training of Pre-School Teachers and Care-givers                I
12.2 Training  o, pre-schoC7  teachers  shall  remain  the  main
responsibility  of N-ACCE  and,  at  the  dis:rict  level,will be
implemented through the DICECEs. The governme=t will subEidize the
training of tieachers.  The cost-sharing policv of the training of
pre-school teachers shall continue.   The ful' cost of trainling
shall be c1narqed to thzse L ndividuais who are able to pay.  A1l
trainir-g  roamr;s  sr.a2   be  conducted  in  existinmg  tra4in'ng
facilities,  such  as  the  Primary  Teacher  Training  Colleg s
seconda-ry schools arn- cther government instimutions in order to
maximize  use of the present tra-Iring cerntres.
Building the capacity of Pre-School Conmlttees R
12.3 com,municy   management   capaci=y   is   key   to   ensuring
sustainabil.-ty and a;;ality of Barly Childhood Development centres.
The capacity of Pre-school parents' committees with a st Ictured
management ccmnprising of a chairperson, secretary and treasurer
shall be enhanced through training.  :n the case of Early Childh6od
Develcrment  cenzres attached to  ririary schcols, skills training
will bce provided to lre-schocl commic:ees zhro-:gh the head ceacher.
The primary School com..ittee mus' however be the representat_ionl of
the vre-sch-oc: teachers and pare.nts.  in urlinked schco s, otAer
faciliJties wi-1l be idertified for this ro'e-
Ymproving Access to the Poor
12.4 Suppor    gran- s  sha1:  be  provided  to  Early  Chiildhdod
;Deve'opmen.t centtes i- t2rae-ec. districts based on a set of defr+ed
criteria, including pcverty, health and educaticn indicators dnd
ecu_ty considerations. Criteria for recaipt of suDrot grants willi
deoend on deronstrated ability to generate  w:haever funds Lnd
resources thrcugh school fees or othe:- ccn:ribtions.  C-ran:s whilch
will be made available to these commi ttees could be used zowaNds
the  imprcverient  of  the  Early  Childhood  Development  centre,
includinc salary of teachers, care-givers, health and nu:rit'lon
services, ar.c imprcoverent of facilities and materials.
Strengthening in DICECE
12.5 DICECE will be strengthened to enable them (a) to meet the ir
training respon.sibilities and (b) to man-age ot0her Early f:hildho od
Development project cotn-onents such as community capacity buildipg
and  mobilizatior,  health  and  nutrition  and  community suppoir
grants.  Each DICECE w:ll have a minimum of 6 trainers including
special pilo  activity coordinators as necessary.  The DICECE wi4l
al.so receive other ir.:ras: uctu-a' support.



Annex Ai
Pagc6of 71
Coordination at Central Level
12.6 The  p-Ojict  Will  receive  ove"all  policy  and  stratjgic
directior   from  an  inter-sectoral  National  Earlv  Child  dod
Develonment  imple-.entacicn  CoTmittee  (N-=CIC)  chaired -by  the
PerimanenC  4ecretary, Ministry of Education.   A,n inter-sectoral
District  -ar2.y  Ch4ldhocd  Development  Implementation  Committee
(DECIDC)  w-il  be conscituted  aLt the  district  level with phe
District  Education off'icer as the  chairman.    The pre-primeLry
education section in the Mn.istry will be strenathened and the Head
will be nared Project Coordinator.   The project coordinator will
(a) be Secrerary of the N-CDIC; (bl facilitate project cocrdinat}on
implementation and monitoring prcject progress; and (c) handle Fhe
project's ad-ninristrative reauiremencs.
Policy on the Under 3-year Old Children
12.7 The first tAree years of life  is a crucial phase in Ahe
physical, social and .ental development of the child. At present,
a number  cf  children  in this  age  group  are  atzending Eazly
Childhcod  velopment centres especially in poor urban areas a d un
Plantations where :ne :raditiion.al family support sys:es are nlot
available.  Strate=ies for develop'' in  alternative models for the
very young children ard enhancIng parenting skills for this age
group will be devaloped.                                            I
Teaching Philosophy in Lower Primary School
12.8       Th-e transiticn from pre-primary sc'hool tc pri;mary school
is made diff-cult fLcr vcung children due to vast differences in
teaching  cur-iculum  and methodologies.    Linkages  need to be
establis.:ed  becween p:e-schocls and the lower primary classes
P_rimary school2 teachers need to be suppcrzed with orien:ation and
appropriate ;materials to rmnake the firs  years ir. the primary school
friendly for the ne;,,r mn:srans.
Defining the role of other partners.
12.9       T'-e MOE wi li cooperate with the Ministry  of Eealth,
Mi:iistry of C-ulture and Social Servlces; Local authorities a I
other  relevant par:ners within the Go0  in the implementation of
Earl.y Childhood Developnenk"_ services.  The MOE will strenathen on-
going partnerships with donors such as Biernard van LIeer, Aga Khdn
Foundatincn and UNICEF and exn ore new part;nerships. NC-Os will be
invited to participace i.n the project and contracted to ass_'st in
the piloting  of innovative models such. as comrnunity grants anl
health  aind  nutriJi.on services via  'CD  centres  and assist i6n
mobilizing  other resources for Early  Childhood Development i 
KenyzC. L.
CONCLUS ION 



Pa7of
13.  The Policy implementation anid institutional support described
above will eahince the continuous adaptation and effectivenesslof
the Early Childhood Development programs.
14.  Finally, -1 take this opportunity to thank the-World Bank, for
its  continued  cooperation  and  support  extended  to  the ie4ya
Government.
Ycurs
EON. MS






Annex B
Page I of 4
TEACHER PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENT & TRAINING COMPONENT
Background and Objectives
1.    This component is intended to equip: (a) ECE teachers with appropriate service
delivery skills and (b) project staff to manage the ECE program. The specific objectives
of the component are to train:
(a)   13,000 previously-untrained ECE teachers in an existing two year in-
service course, which the project would upgrade
(b)   8,550 previously-untrained teachers in a five-week Orientation Course
during the first three years of the project
(c)   50 teachers a year in each DICECE in two-week specialized courses
(d)   head-teachers, zonal school inspectors, local authority and other staff in a
one-month
(e)   supervisory skills course.
(f)   250 DICECE staff on community mobilization, communication skills and
other specialized short courses
(g)   250 DICECE staff in an existing 9-month training of trainers (TOT)
course
(h)   30 NACECE and Ministry of Education staff in management, community
mobilization and communication and writing skills through short and long
term courses internally and externally, advanced degree training and
orientation programs for new staff.
Program Content
ECEC Teacher Training
2.    Training Strategy and Approach. The basic and alternative ECEC teacher
training courses will be conducted in 6 three-week sessions during school holidays over
two years. Training will be offered to 13,000 teachers over the project implementation
period. The two-year courses will take place in the 26 districts with DICECE facilities
for residential training. The training teams would consist of a combination of DICECE
staff and external facilitators.
3.    During the first project year, NACECE will implement a five week Orientation
course for untrained ECEC teachers. The purpose of this five-week course is to ensure
that within the first three years of the project, all untrained ECEC teachers get some basic
knowledge while they await formal training. The Government also will decide whether
to shorten the two-year basic and alternative courses to reflect skills imparted during the
five-week orientation course.



Annex B
Page 2 of 4
4.    Curricula and Training Materials Development. NACECE panels would
review current curricula for ECEC teacher training to correct identified weaknesses.
Curriculum revisions could include more effective approaches to caring/talking to
children, resource management skills, adult learning, basic reading and writing skills,
communication, young child health and nutrition and community mobilization. The
panels also would review training support materials. Modification or development of
training support materials would be done at NACECE, perhaps by contracting with
specialized outside groups.
5.    New curricula and training support materials which would be developed or
modified include:
(a)   Revised curriculum for the two year and five week courses
(b)   Revised TOT curricula
(c)   A manual for pre-school teachers (to include in addition skills such as
health and nutrition, parental education, working with school heads,
linkages with primary schools, self confidence and self reliance skills)
(d)   A manual for trainers
(e)   Guidelines for training of supervisors
6.    Training Output. The 26 fully-fledged DICECEs will continue to conduct the
regular and alternative ECEC teacher training courses, which currently take two years to
complete. Most of the fully-fledged DICECEs now have a training staff of 3 to 4, but
take more staff from the other DICECEs and external facilitators during training as
necessary. Each fully fledged DICECE can accommodate 100 ECEC teachers at any one
time in the regular course, resulting in a total output of 2,600 teachers a year. Assuming
that 2,000 ECEC teachers are currently in training and will graduate in year one of the
project, 13,000 ECEC teachers could be trained through the regular course over the five-
year project period.
7.    The alternative course uses the same curriculum as the regular course, but sets
different examinations. It is intended for teachers who are below fourth form and come
from hardship areas such as ASAL and for some traditional Maalim and Duksi teachers
of the Islamic Integrated Curriculum. If the alternative course continues to be offered in
each of ten DICECEs for a single batch of 50 teachers, a total of 1,500 teachers of the
13,000 teachers could be trained in the alternative course during the five-year project
period.
8.    The five week orientation course for untrained teachers while they wait to be
taken to full training courses will consist of 5 modules covering: (1) child development;
(2) health and nutrition; (3) pre-school activities; (4) parental involvement/education; and
(5) professional development. DICECEs will have flexibility to schedule the orientation
training to suit local circumstances. It is estimated that each DICECE will train 50
teachers every year through this course during the first three years of the project for a
total of 8550.



Annex B
Page 3 of 4
9.    The supervisory skills course would be part of a process of institutionalizing
responsibility for technical supervision of pre-school teachers at the zonal or local level
through zonal school inspectors (ZSIs) or primary school head masters.
10.   As part of the process of strengthening community mobilization (See
Commentary Mobilization Component), the project would train at least one existing
Community Development Officer in each district. By strengthening their community
mobilization and communications skills, the project would develop an additional resource
to assist communities in the process of managing and sustaining their ECECs more
effectively.
Training Venues
11.   DICECE will continue to carry out the residential component of the teachers' two
year in-service course in existing institutions. The MOE will formulate a policy on
rationalization of payments for residential ECEC teacher training whereby institutions
will be required to keep venue charges constant for reasonable periods and to use rates
similar to those for training equivalent cadres (e.g. primary school teachers).
Training of DICECE Staff
12.   DICECEs will need additional staff and training to meet the above
responsibilities. DICECE personnel needs are described in Annex F. DICECE staff will
require two types of training. Existing staff will need short courses in management,
communication, community mobilization skills and, in divisions where the component
will take place, on Health and Nutrition. New DICECE staff will need several kinds of
training including an induction course and orientation programs. NACECE will carry out
the nine-month induction course for the 250 additional DICECE staff expected to be
recruited during the five years of project implementation. Induction training will be at
the rate of 50 DICECE trainers per year. Some DICECE staff will also need higher
degree training locally or abroad. The DICECEs also will offer slots in training programs
such as orientation courses on early childhood development and community mobilization
skills to other officials in the district such as Community Development Officers and staff
concerned with financial management. Training curricula and materials would be
reviewed, developed and pre-tested as needed.
13.   Training needs for current and new staff at a typical DICECE and the first year's
DICECE-level curriculum development and training schedule are in the Project
Implementation Plan.
14.   Short courses need to be developed or identified locally and abroad through which
DICECE staff can get training. This would include training on management, computer
skills, specified content of ECD. If an average of two persons from each DICECE are
targeted for training each year, 500 DICECE staff would need to be reached over the
project period.



Annex B
Page 4 of 4
NACECE Staff Training
15.   Both existing and new NACECE staff and MOE personnel involved in early
childhood development will also require training. By Negotiations, NACECE would
develop a five-year staff development plan to guide that training effort. New NACECE
staff will receive an internally-organized orientation program of one month. Both new
and experienced NACECE staff and MOE personnel could take part in short courses of
up to six months' duration at home or abroad.
Staffing And Management
16.   For the training program to be fully operational, some existing staff positions need
to be filled and new ones created and filled. A fully operational DICECE requires a
Program Officer (PO) in charge of the institution, six trainers, an accounts clerk, and
support staff. In order to take community mobilization on a full time basis an additional
person (Community Mobilization Officer) will also be required. In some of the DICECE
that will not have enough numbers of teachers to train over five years, the full capacity
will be developed in due course. It also would develop a resource center to provide staff
and other interested professionals and communities with reference materials and up-to-
date information on best practices and developments in early childhood education.
17.   Current staffing levels at each DICECE and approved levels are shown in the
project implementation plan. It is envisaged that the approved positions will be filled
within the five year period bring the program to a full operational level.
18.   NACECE will manage the training program on behalf of overall project
management. The professional staff required for the purpose and job descriptions are
included in the project implementation plan.
Monitoring and Evaluation
19.   The training component will be monitored both at the district and national levels.
At the district level, DICECE staff will oversee the day to day running of the program
while NACECE staff will assist on regular basis. Monitoring instruments will include
reports, surveys, and visits. An external evaluation will need to be conducted half way
through the project.
20.  Initiatives to Explore:
(a)   Pre-service training
(b)   Distance Education through radio and TV
(c)   Regional and Zonal pre-school teacher groups
(d)   Home-Based care-giver training.



Annex C
Page 1 of3
COMMUNITY CAPACITY BUILDING AND MOBILIZATION
Background And Objectives
1.    More than 80% of the 20,000 ECD centers in Kenya are owned and managed by
communities. These communities have developed ECD centers according to the
perceived needs, and have been responsible for the development of physical structures,
payment of teacher salaries and training, contributions to playschool materials, school
meals. Communities are also responsible for the management of the center.
2.    Given these responsibilities, community capacity building becomes extremely
important for the delivery of quality ECD services. The success of the project is largely
dependent on how much would be achieved in mobilizing communities and building their
capacity to manage pre-schools. For long term sustainability, communities need to have
necessary skills, knowledge and decision-making capacity to manage, operate, supervise
and finance their ECD initiatives.
3.    The objectives of this component are to:
(a)   Sensitize communities on the importance and benefits of early childhood
development
(b)   Train key community leaders and managers of ECD centers (including the
preschool committees) to improve their capacity to manage pre-schools.
(c)   To mobilize communities and increase participation in ECD activities
through an IEC campaign.
Description
(a) Coverage
4.    While general community mobilization activities will be implemented all over the
country, community ECD management capacity building will be implemented
exclusively in the pilot districts. On average, there are 15 zones per district, and 30 pre-
schools per zone. Priority will be placed on communities that are chosen to implement
the project components for health and nutrition management and community grant
schemes.
(b) Orientation
5.   In order to succeed in implementing activities for community mobilization, it is
pertinent to obtain support for ECD and pre-school education from agencies involved in
providing support to ECD. NACECE would conduct a one day orientation in Nairobi for
officials and NGOs at the national level. Similarly a one day orientation session will be
conducted at the provincial level to sensitize DEOs and DDOs from the districts with an



Annex C
Page 2 of 3
aim towards building team support for pre-school education through the DDCs and
DEBs. Subsequently, NACECE and DICECE would sensitize other district officials such
as the DIS (district inspectors of schools), DSDO, CDA, MOH, and MEO at the districts
in two day orientation sessions. In addition, DICECE --with cooperation from Ministry
of Culture and Social Services, DDC, and DEB -- would also sensitize and train the
divisional and zonal officials such as TAC tutors, the PSI, ZSI, AEO, and head masters
(HM) of primary schools, as well as the NGOs. This training would be held at the district
and divisional levels for 3 days for a group of 20 people or four per zone.
(c) Community Mobilization
6.    Participatory Development Approaches. The Community Mobilization Officer
(CMO) of DICECE and a ZIS (Zonal Inspectors of Schools) or HM would form a
training team both at the divisional and zonal levels. The teams would use Participatory
Development Approaches (PDA) workshops at the zonal level for a total of 60
representatives from about 4 communities for three days. The participants would be
community chiefs, ECD management committee members, PTA members, pre-school
teachers, and religious leaders. The PDA workshops would introduce the concept of a
good ECD program, and would include a needs assessment, evaluation of on-going
activities, and exchange of information related to ECD amongst the communities. The
workshop would also includes a visit to a demonstration ECD center or a community
resource center and some on-site practical exercises. At the end of the workshop, trainees
would be asked to produce a plan of action for their communities for improving their
ECD centers. The training team would review the plan and give appropriate advice on
the feasibility of the plan.
7.    Management Training. One of the major problems identified in the
administration of ECD centers is that the communities often lack adequate management
skills. Therefore, NACECE and DICECE would develop a standard training package to
enable key community members to improve the management of existing ECD centers.
The standard package would include, inter alia, the following subject areas: group
dynamics, administration, book keeping, preventive health, nutrition, growth monitoring
and promotion, inventory control, and annual planning.
8.    Training for Parents and Caregivers. Parents and caregivers play a key role in
the growth and development of the children. A program that focuses on children must
therefore also address itself to the parents and caregivers with a view to building their
capacity so that they are able to provide quality care for the young children. Here,
caregivers includes mothers, "ayahs', grandparents, and other adult childminders. The
training team for this component consists of DICECE and divisional and zonal staff who
have received the orientation training. A five-day training would be designed and
conducted for about 20 parents and caregivers at the community which will include
subjects such as: child growth and development, health and sanitation, nutrition and
proper diet, responsible parenthood, stimulation and children's learning ability,
importance of play and space, care for children with special needs, and management of



Annex C
Page 3 of 3
family resources. A participatory approach will be used in order to facilitate sharing of
ideas and experiences. Activities such as development of toys and other learning
materials, collection of folk media, food production and preparation demonstrations, and
visits to relevant institutions will also be included.
9.    Community Mobilization Activities. It must be understood that the main
mobilizers of the communities have been and will continue to be the community
members themselves. Harambee meetings, Barazas, women's group meetings, PTA
meetings, school committee meetings etc., are important venues for community
mobilization activities. The project will increase the frequency and quality of existing
efforts to mobilize communities for ECD.
(d) Information, Education, and Communication (IEC)
10.   An IEC strategy will be developed and implemented with the objective of
increasing participation of the communities in ECD. Useful and easy to understand
messages would be developed on benefits of pre-school centers and health education and
feeding programs for young children. Various media would be used such as radio and
TV programs, posters, and pamphlets. Local such as the folk media could also be
facilitated by the district and zonal officials led by DICECE. This includes puppet
shows, children's plays, demonstration of games, and exhibition of children's art work at
festivals, agricultural shows, and other fares. Through these events and the folk media,
different communities could have a forum to exchange information on ECD and establish
linkages amongst each other. The target is for the district, divisional, and zonal members
to facilitate these types of events at least twice a year at the district and divisional levels.
Annual picture contests could also be organized by NACECE for the pre-school children
that would start from the zonal level and conclude at the national level.
11.   Through these IEC activities, communities with ECD centers would most likely
be able to obtain useful and important information to enhance their ability in managing
their centers. However, it is envisioned that communities which do not have ECD centers
would also be stimulated, motivated and indirectly mobilized to start their own
educational program for pre-school children.






Annex D
Page 1 of 8
HEALTH & NUTRITION PILOT
A. Summary and Introduction
1.    The health and nutrition component would develop, test and refine a replicable
model emphasizing prevention and promotion to optimize health and nutrition standards
of pre-school children at the community level. The component would initially focus on
two target groups: >3s who attend ECECs, and children 1-3 years of age who constitute
the next generation of ECEC beneficiaries. The principal interventions would be
improved caring practices and community-based health and nutrition services. Collateral
attention would go to improving growth patterns of children <1 year of age through
promotion of better maternal breastfeeding and weaning practices.
2.   It is expected that families would improve their caring practices sufficiently over
the first few years of implementation for attention then to shift to older children in early
primary school, for whom other forms of service delivery would be needed.
3.    The rationale for initially centering on children >1 year of age is: (a) growth
faltering tends to appear late in the first year of life, gain momentum and result in growth
failure and stunting of children at around 2 years of age, only some of which is
subsequently remediable; (b) children <1 year of age have three formally scheduled
contacts with the health system through KEPI, but none thereafter, and (c) children <1
year of age are generally under close family supervision which may be increasingly
diffuse thereafter as other caregivers enter the picture.
4.    The component would address the five major problems common to preschool
children throughout Kenya as well as two which are important in specific geographic
areas. The core interventions would be directed at: (i) growth failure mainly through
faulty feeding practices; (ii) diarrhea; (iii) acute respiratory infections (ARI); (iv) worms;
and (v) Vitamin A deficiencies. On a geographic basis, interventions also would include
malaria and schistosomiasis control.
5.   Interventions would have to be provided in the community because the distances
involved preclude obtaining them at other levels of service delivery.
6.    The operational unit of organization would be the division, which has around 100
pre-schools on average. The component would be implemented in 5 incremental
divisions per year, reaching a total of 2,500 ECECs. There would be a spread to cover
different ecological parts of Kenya and at least one division within each ecological zone
where child nutrition and health conditions are considered most precarious.
7.    Highest priority would go to divisions in districts with higher than average
stunting rates and lower than average ECEC coverage. Implementation for the first year
might take place in five districts where welfare monitoring data indicate that child
stunting averages over 40%: Homa Bay, Kakamega, Kilifi, Kitui and West Pokot.



Annex D
Page 2 of 8
B. Background
8.     Community-based interventions against each of the key problems of preschool
children, their feasibility and likely effectiveness is as follows:
Table 1
Problem                  Intervention              Feasibility At    Effectiveness
Community Level
Growth faltering/    growth promotion through weighing,  high           fairly high
failure            counseling
short-term nutrition supplementation  variable       variable
Diarrhea           counseling on home management,       high             moderate/high
referral
Acute respiratory    early identification, referral     high             moderate
infections (ARI)
Vitamin A          semi-annual megadose                 high             high
deficiency
Wormns             periodic mass deworming              high             high
sanitation education                 high            low/moderate
Malaria            promotion of impregnated bed nets or  moderate        fair/moderate
other home vector control,
presumptive treatment, referral
Schistosomiasis    Annual prophylaxis                   high             high
Fe/folate deficiency  Daily supplementation Deworming   Uncertain high    fair/moderate
9.     The interventions would emphasize promotion and prevention rather than cure.
They would aim at improving family caring practices, since it is recognized that lack of
parental knowledge and poor feeding, weaning and child care are among the principal
causes of malnutrition except in those relatively few cases where poverty is the
overwhelmingly binding constraint. Among the interventions to be promoted would be
community or family provision of a mid-day snack to ECEC children and improved
environmental sanitation (e.g. communities could use grants under that component of the
project to build latrines).
10.    Interventions against the first five problems and malaria need to be available at
least monthly (assuming Vitamin A delivery on demand as children need it rather than on
fixed semiannual dates). Both deworming and schistosomiasis prophylaxis can be
provided on a campaign basis. A Community Health Fund will be created to meet special
needs.
Delivery Options
11.    The two available mechanisms potentially capable of delivering these services at
the community level on a fully operational scale are the Ministry of Health (MOH) and



Annex D
Page 3 of 8
non-government organizations (NGOs). The for-profit health sector even at village level
has found little money-making opportunity in promotional and preventive care.
12.   MOH. Except for immunization, maternal child health (MCH) services to
younger preschool children through the MOH are currently limited in scope and scale and
available on an irregular basis. In fact, rising child mortality 1988-93 in the face of rising
immunization rates indicates that overall MCH services may be declining in quality and
coverage. However, one option is to try to strengthen and expand MCH services to
provide the full range of survival and development services to preschool children. This
could be done in one or a combination of three ways.
13.   One strategy is to strengthen the availability of services at existing health facilities
to generate more consumer demand. A second is to get MOH workers to visit ECECs
routinely and frequently and also attend to the first-level health needs of the entire
community cohort of preschool children >1 year of age and their parents. Government
development of a version of the Bamako initiative is a third. The Bamako approach
involves community selection of a volunteer health worker who receives some training
,in health promotion and first aid, a basic drug supply and gets to keep the profits from
drug sales to the community.
14.   Neither of the first two strategies above appears appropriate for inclusion in the
proposed project. Evidence to date indicates that the opportunity cost of beneficiary
travel to MOH facilities outweighs perceived benefits of promotional and preventive
MCH interventions, including nutrition counseling and detection of sub-acute infections.
Moreover, uneven response at fixed facilities has reduced consumer confidence in public
health services at the periphery.
15.   Getting MOH personnel to visit communities often enough and, when there, to
spend the time needed for effective MCH promotional and preventive activities also has
proven difficult. Combining community MCH work with a school or ECEC visit has
generally not been cost-effective elsewhere and does not seem to have received Kenya
priority.
16.   On balance, it appears likely that successful delivery of a community outreach
program targeted on mothers and pre-school children by present MOH personnel would
require a fairly substantial reorientation of the public health system in the geographic
areas to be covered.
17.   The Government has accepted the main principles of the Bamako initiative as part
of national health policy. Some limited MOH experiments with Bamako-type programs
have taken place. The results are reported to be generally positive. However, the MOH
has yet to develop a national strategy and program for widespread expansion of the
village-based approach. Whether under its present staffing configuration and operational
style the MOH could successfully implement a Bamako-type program on an operational
scale also remains to be determined. Moreover, the Bamako initiative focuses on the



Annex D
Page 4 of 8
more general health needs of the community as a whole rather than the specific
requirements of pre-school children.
18.   Non-Government Organizations (NGOs). A number of NGOs have developed
and implemented paradigms for community-based health delivery which have included
one or more parts of the service package described above. Several have also put
variations on the Bamako initiative in place both before and after its promulgation. Most
of these efforts also have been relatively small-scale and somewhat limited in scope.
However, they offer positive lessons particularly in areas of training and supervision.
C. Detailed Component Description
19.   With the above experiences and resources in mind, the component would test at
least one of the following three delivery modes in villages where the ECEC has stabilized
and an active pre-school committee (PSC) is in operation:
(a)   GOK model - Pre-school committees selects community child health
(CCH) aide. Health department at district/division level trains CH aide
(CCA) and CHW provides technical supervision on monthly basis for first
six months and as infrequently as quarterly thereafter depending on
individual performance. MOH supplies scales, growth charts, Vitamin A
capsules, deworming medication and communications materials.
(b)   NGO Model - Pre-school committees select CHW. Project contracts with
NGO such as AMREF which has experience in community health training
to train and supervise CCHA and provide logistical and material support.
20.  In each case, the division (around 100 ECECs) would be the unit of service
organization. Table 2 outlines the basic intervention delivery framework and its
relationship to problems, process and impact objectives and their indicators.
Work Routines, Supervision and Training
21.   Based on experience elsewhere, it is expected that for a population of around
1,000 persons the GMPA would need to allocate around 53 hours per month to carry out
the interventions in Table 2. Based on a population of 1,000, with around a 32 per 1,000
birth rate, initially there would be around 60 children aged 1-3 years of age and around 90
aged 3-6 years. (Estimated pre-school population growth of around 16% during the
project period has been excluded from these initial calculations.)
GMP - monthly weighing of children 1-3 years, plotting weight on growth chart and
counseling mother: 10 minutes per child, or 10 hours per month. Counseling of
pregnant women in last trimester/new mothers on lactation management, 10 contacts
of 15 minutes' duration with groups and individual women, around three hours per
month. Quarterly weighing of children 3-6 years, plotting weights and counseling
mother @ 10 minutes per child, avenge of around five hours per month.



Annex D
Page 5 of 8
*  Diarrhea management - two 30-minute meetings with four groups of mothers of
children <3 years of age monthly, or four hours per month.
  ARI - one hour baraza for general parent education and eight 15-minute contacts with
individual mothers, around three hours per month.
*  Skin Infections - two half-hour talks to groups of mothers, plus average of 12 scabies
cases monthly for benzyl benzoate administration at 10 minutes each with individual
counseling, around three hours per month.
*  Vitamin A - Semiannual mass dosing of 1-3 year olds, 10 per month at six minutes
each, around one hour per month.
*  Worms - Semiannual mass dosing preceded by 30-minute talk to two groups of
parents of 3-6 year old children at ECEC, three hours every six months, or 30 minutes
per month.
Malaria - Two 30-minute monthly meetings with groups of parents on malaria
prevention, recognition and control, around one hour per month.
-  Schistosomiasis - Annual 30-minute meeting with four groups of parents to prepare
for MOH administration of praziquantel, or around 10 minutes per month.
  Social marketing, spot counseling - Neighborhood visits to hand out materials,
informal doorstep counseling, etc. 30 minutes daily, or 12 hours per month.
*  Record-keeping - 30 minutes daily, or 12 hours per month.
*  Training - Supervisory interaction and in-service training, four hours per month. plus
eight hours every quarter.
22.   The CCHA could be an ECEC teacher, a traditional birth attendant, a primary
school teacher, a previously-trained community health worker, or any other reasonably
literate, numerate and credible community resident with a commitment to undertake these
activities and the time to do so. Who would supervise the CCHA depends on which of
the three delivery models operated in a particular division. However, CCHAs would
receive monthly supervision for at least the first six months after completion of training,
and no less frequently than quarterly thereafter, as well as four full days of formal in-
service training yearly. Only divisions which could assure that supervision frequency
would be eligible to take part in the component. The supervision routine would be
developed by the MOH or implementing NGO and approved by the national working
group (see below).
23.   CCHAs would receive preservice training for 45 days each in two batches of 50 at
the district level. Supervisors would receive at least ten days' full-time training; at least
three days would be joint with CCHAs from the same division. The curricula would be
approved by the national working group (see below) after development and pretesting by
either the MOH individually or in collaboration with one or more NGOs under contract.
24.   Under the MOH delivery option, the component would finance a program to train
district MOH staff to train CCHAs and supervisors in technical subjects. The community
mobilization and behavioral change aspects of the training would arranged by NACECE.
It may choose to have DICECE staff trained for that purpose by the social marketing firm



Annex D
Page 6 of 8
which would prepare communications materials. The District Medical Officer would be
required to release staff for training as trainers and subsequently to train component
personnel as required. To even out the training and management load, each district will
inaugurate the component in one division per year.
Material Support
25.   Each CCHA would receive a scale for weighing children in 1 OOg increments
which could be calibrated in the field. Scales and medications would be procured either
through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with World Bank
guidelines or through UNICEF, which the Bank recognizes as equivalent to ICB. If it
were the procurement agency, UNICEF would arrange their delivery to MOH offices at
the district level or to NGOs, depending on the service delivery mode in each district.
26.   Communications materials would be developed under contract with social
marketing consultants who also might contribute to the development of a component
communications strategy. To minimize translation and related printing complexities and
costs, emphasis would be on verbal and visual rather than written communication.
D. Component Organization and Management
27.   National Level. Overall manager of the component at national level would be the
official seconded from the MOH in the MOE office responsible for project coordination.
He or she would chair a health and nutrition working group. Its membership would
include representatives of the sections of the MOH most directly concerned with MCH,
including immunization; the community mobilization office of NACECE, and NGOs
active in providing outreach health/nutrition services at the periphery. Others with
relevant skills and experience could also be invited to join. The working group would
meet at least quarterly. It would: (a) review proposed component budgets and work
plans; (b) track physical and financial progress of the component, including monitoring
and evaluation activities; and (c) recommend ways of resolving implementation
bottlenecks. Each member would be expected to spend at least one day per quarter
observing component activities in the field.
28.   District Level. The District ECD Implementation Committee would oversee the
component at district level and assure coordination among the agencies involved. The
main tasks at the district level would be to work with division staff to formulate a
division work plan and budget, to ensure timely implementation and proper monitoring
and to resolve local operational issues.
29.   Division Level. DICECE program officers decentralized to the division level
would have an oversight responsibility in regard to community mobilization for health
and nutrition activities in pilot project areas. As part of their ECEC supervision, they
would be expected to review levels of community participation in the health and nutrition
problem and act as an early warning system for major demand-supply service gaps.



Annex D
Page 7 of 8
30.   Community Level. Before introducing the pilot program, a plan for introducing
these services to the community needs to be formulated and carried out. The purpose of
the plan is to ensure as good a fit as possible between services available through the
project and the community's priorities and perceptions. By sensitizing both the
community and service providers in advance, a more favorable implementation climate
hopefully will emerge.
31.   At each of these levels, a series of health management committees have already
been constituted by the MOH for primary health care. These committees will coordinate
with the ECD Committees in the planning, supervision and monitoring of health activities
in ECD centers and the communities. The health coordinators at each level will facilitate
this process.



Annex D
Page 8 of 8
Table 2 Health And Nutrition Component Matrix
Problem         Target Group            Intervention            Process Indicators        Impact Goal           Physical Inputs      Who Does It?
PEM               Preschool children    Monthly weights and     Coverage: children        Increase proportion of    Scales, growth    GMPA for children
(faltering growth)   > 1 year of age  nutrition counseling of   weighed as % of target    children with normal      charts             <3; ECE teacher
mother                    group                     growth velocity                             for >3 children
Diarrhea          Preschool children    Train care-givers on home   No. of GMPA monthly   Reduce severity, duration   Communications   GMPA
> I year of age    treat-ment and when to    contacts on diarrhea      of diarrhea episodes       materials
seek professional care    management
Acute             Preschool children    Train care-givers to    No. of GMPA monthly       Reduce ARI severity,      Communications   GMPA for children
Respiratory       > 1 year of age     recognize symptoms and    contacts on ARI           duration                  materials          <3;ECE teacher
Infections (ARI)                      in basic care             management                                                            for > 3 children
Vitamin A         Preschool children    Semiannual Vitamin A    % of children covered     Reduction in acute        Vitamin A         GMPA for children
Deficiency        > 1 year of age     supplementation Nutrition                           manifestations            capsules           < 3;ECE teacher
education of caregivers                                                       Communications   for >3 chil dren
materials
Worms             Children 3-6 years   Periodic deworming       % of children covered     Reduce prevalence,        Mebendazole       ECE teacher
Hygiene education         No. of GMPA monthly       intensity of infection    Communications   /GMPA
messages delivered        Reduce re-infection rate  materials
Schistosomiasis    Region-specific    Annual prophylaxis        % of children covered     Reduce prevalence         Praziquantel      ECE teacher
children 3-6 years                                                                                                  /GMPA
Malaria           Preschool children    Presumptive case        % of children treated and    Avert acute phase of   Chloroquine       GMPA/
>I year            detection, treatment,     referred                  malaria; reduce incidence   Communications   ECE teacher
referral                  No. of bednets in                                   materials
Promotion of bed nets     community



Annex E
Page 1 of3
ECD COMMUNITY GRANTS SUPPORT COMPONENT
A. Background And Objectives
1.    The objectives of this component are:
(a)   to assist the most needy communities in developing financially viable and
sustainable ECD services.
(b)   to assist the most needy preschool children to access ECD services.
2.    Experience in the last decade indicates that thousands of Kenyan communities are
interested in the development of ECD services and parents have been willing to provide
their own share by the providing land, school building and paying fees for operating
expenditures. However, most of the community/parent-managed ECD centers are
constrained by low levels of funding. The WB (1995) series of studies on early child
development show that these community owned and managed early child development
centers (ECD) rely almost exclusively on parents' fee contributions for its operating and
maintenance costs, and virtually no direct contributions from government. These centers
lack sustainable financing since fees are not enough nor are collected regularly and
therefore are not sufficient to pay for recurrent costs such as pay for the preschool
teacher/provider, or learning materials, maintenance of facilities or for feeding or health
services.
3.    This pilot financing mechanism is intended to test and learn from these pilots
alternative methods of making these ECD centers financially viable and sustainable over
the long term . A financing mechanism using trust funds will be tested in
community/parent-managed ECD centers.
B. Description Of The Proposed Financing Mechanism
4.    Overview of Mechanics for the Grants. This pilot will set up an ECD Trust
Fund for each pre-school in order to provide the school with a steady income stream to
meet monthly recurrent costs. In order for an ECD center to qualify for the fund, the
community must initially collect an amount for an ECD Fund. The project will then
provide a grant which will be added to the ECD Trust Fund account. The minimum
amount eligible for a grant will be six months operating costs of the center. The
maximum amount that will be matched over the four years of the project will be KSh
100,000. The ECD Fund will be held where applicable in a protected interest bearing trust
account in the nearest approved bank with three signatories designated by the ECD
Committee (including the chairperson and the treasurer). The Fund can be used to pay
for eligible expenditures (such as augmenting teachers salaries, learning materials, school
improvements, bursaries and school health and nutrition). Every month the pre-school
committee will deposit the fees collected and make withdrawals against pre-approved
budget for eligible expenditures which must be submitted together with the withdrawal



Annex E
Page 2 of 3
request. Every quarter, the statements of expenditure will be sent to DICECE/NGO with
the monthly budgets attached for accounting and auditing purposes.
5.    The community would be able to fund a significant proportion of the operating
expenses of the ECD center. Parents will continue to pay school fees and any savings can
be used to periodically increase the capital fund. The community will be encouraged to
further build up the fund by harambee since inflation is likely to eat up the capital if no
new funds are added or if school fees is not consistently collected.
6.    This financing mechanism is intended to make the center financially self-
sustainable beginning in the third year of the project. The purpose of the piloting is to
understand and learn from the experience. Technical assistance in self-management,
accounting, fund raising (by income generating activities), planning and budgeting will
be provided by the community mobilization and capacity building component of the
project.
7.    Eligibility Criteria for the Centers. In order for an ECD center to qualify for
the matching grant, the following eligibility criteria will be applied:
(a)   The preschool must be community/parent managed.
(b)   Current (1995) fee per child charged by the preschool should be less than
K Shillings 3,000 per year. (Reason: preschools charging fees higher than
this amount are likely to be adequately funded)
(c)   The center must have an organized preschool committee--at least with a
chairman, secretary and treasurer--and meet regularly.
(d)   The center committee members must have undergone training in
bookkeeping, banking, planning and budgeting.
(e)   The center must have a bank account, where applicable, with three
signatories.
(f)    The center must have a certified record of school attendance, list of pupils
and information regarding these pupils.
(g)   The center budget must be affixed on the premises and must be approved
by the committee.
C. Criteria for Selection of Pilot Project Areas
8.    Since the pilot project is intended to test both the technical and administrative
feasibility of grants, the pilot areas will be selected based on criteria that will allow for a
systematic evaluation of its impact on children and success (or failure) in administrative
procedures. The selection should allow for testing of the matching grant administration
in difficult areas as well as in areas with good administrative infrastructure.
9.    For purposes of this pilot project, a total of 2,000 preschools will be selected in 14
districts. The final selection of districts and divisions within these districts will be



Annex E
Page 3 of 3
determined by MOE using pre-determined criteria and after considering the availability
of other ECD programs currently sponsored by other donors.
D. Phasing Of Pilot Project
10.   The grants pilots will be introduced in the second year up to the fourth year of the
project. During the first year, the administrative procedures will be firmed up by MOE
and the selection of the project areas will be determined. During the first year, the
community mobilization and capacity building is expected to be conducted in the pilot
areas. This includes the organization/strengthening of the preschool committees, training
in accounting, management, procurement and banking of key members of the committee,
and preparing the preschool for the pilot grants. It is also expected that the preschool
teacher will be given training/orientation, or enrollment in the training courses.
E. Administrative Procedures
11.   Grants will be allocated to preschools under the following procedures:
(a)   Selection of Pilot Areas. Pilot districts and divisions will be selected
using the above criteria. The selection process will be designed to afford
maximum transparency and impartiality.
(b)   Awareness Campaign. News and information of the availability of the
matching grants will be disseminated throughout the pilot areas.
(c)   Submission of Grant Application and Certification of Grant Award.
Applications will be received from the selected divisions. Based on
criteria for eligibility, the center that will be awarded the grants will be
notified.
(d)   Letter of Agreement. After selection of the center, a Letter of
Agreement will be signed by the NGO/MOE and the Chairperson of the
ECD Center Committee specifying the terms and conditions of the grant.
(e)   Disbursement of Grants. Grants will be disbursed into the bank account-
-a protected Trust Fund-- of the ECD center. The project will disburse the
grant up to a ceiling of K Shillings 100,000 unless otherwise agreed.
(f)   Report of Quarterly Statements. Quarterly SOEs will be the basis for
monitoring the use of the grant, and for evaluating the benefits accruing to
the receiving ECD centers, and identifying measures to be taken to in
December, the second in March and the third in July of each year.
(g)   Auditing. Random audits will be conducted against records maintained
by the ECD center to verify utilization of the grant.






Annex F
Page I of 6
PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION
Overall Project Management and Coordination
1.    The National Steering Committee. The project will receive overall policy and
strategic direction from a national, intersectoral ECD Implementation Committee
(NECDIC) chaired by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education. Members of the
committee would include the Director of Education, the Chief Inspector of Schools, the
Senior Deputy Director in charge of Primary Education, the Director of the Kenya
Institute of Education, the Coordinator of NACECE; the Secretary, Teachers' Service
Commission, a senior official each from the Ministries of Finance, Health, Culture &
Social Services, Local Government and Home Affairs, representatives of NGOs and
nominated experts. The Project Coordinator (see below) would be the Secretary to the
Committee. The committee would meet at least once a quarter to discuss and approve
project work plans and budgets, ensure prompt deployment of funds for project activities,
review project progress and impact and discuss policy issues arising from the
implementation of the project. The constitution of the NECDIC is a condition for Board
presentation and assurances will be sought for the maintenance of the committee during
the project.
2.    The ECD Section of the Directorate Division of MOE. The ECD section of the
Ministry of Education will be strengthened and the head, whose qualifications and
experience will be satisfactory to IDA, will be named Project Coordinator. The Project
Coordinator will (a) be the Secretary of the ECD Implementation Committee (b) facilitate
project coordination and implementation and monitor project progress and (c) handle
IDA's administrative requirements. The ECD section will be strengthened with four new
professional positions for Monitoring and Evaluation, Health and Nutrition and
Community Development and Accounting and two support staff. Responsibilities of the
unit include the preparation of annual work plans in accordance with the Project
Implementation manual, monitoring of project activities and project finances and
accounting. The PE would be responsible for managing the information data base and
conducting analysis of implementation and procurement. Assurances will be sought at
negotiations for the nomination of a Project Coordinator satisfactory to IDA during the
project.
3.    NACECE. The functions of NACECE are being reviewed and the institution
strengthened to carry out its overall innovation and quality assurance roles. Existing
positions include 12 professional staff in 6 sections responsible for training, curriculum,
human growth and development, research and evaluation, resources management and
community and parental education respectively. The institution is managed by a
Coordinator and a Deputy Coordinator. Job descriptions of existing staff will be
redefined and a staff development plan prepared. The filling up of key vacancies will be
a condition of Board Presentation. NACECE will be provided with necessary equipment
and supplies including desk top publishing facilities and tools for making play materials
and the library will be strengthened. NACECE's establishment will be strengthened per



Annex F
Page 2 of 6
existing proposals under consideration of KIE. Funds have been allocated for specialist
technical assistance for project related activities.
The District Level
4.    The District Steering Committee. An intersectoral District ECD
Implementation Committee (DECDIC) will be constituted at the district level which
would meet on a monthly basis. The Committee would be chaired by the District
Education Officer and the Program Officer, DICECE will be the Secretary. Other
members would include representatives from the Ministries of Health, Culture and Social
Services, Local Governments and NGOs working in the district.
5.    DICECE. At the district level, the DICECE will facilitate a consortium of all
actors involved in the delivery and promotion of ECD services. The DDC and the DEB
will be used to discuss ECD issues and coordinate resources. The current DICECE
staffing pattern consists of 6 professionals each in 20 fully fledged DICECEs (those that
offer residential training) and 4 professionals each in 31 associate DICECEs. However
only 168 of the 292 positions are currently filled. Under the project, the recommendation
of the management study undertaken as part of project preparation, to decentralize the
DICECE staff to the divisional level will be piloted. DICECEs will be staffed up to the
full existing establishment of 6 trainers and staff strength will be increased to 8 in some
DICECEs by the end of the project. This will involve the filling up of vacant positions
(for which the process has been initiated by the Teachers Service Commission), and the
establishment of essential new positions during the course of the project. DICECE
positions include a Program Officer in the grade of Senior Lecturer, a Community
Mobilization Officer and Training Specialist in the grade of Lecturer, and a data analyst.
A pilot program specialist will be included for each pilot district. The professional staff
will be supported by a bookkeeper, typist and general helper. The DICECEs will be
strengthened with necessary equipment and supplies such as computers, audio-visual
equipment and duplicating machines. Means to improve mobility will be provided. As
an initial exercise, the DICECE will map ECD facilities in each district, identify all the
entities providing ECD services including local governments and the private sector,
identify gaps and areas that are not being served. Annual district plans will be based on
the baseline information and the decisions of the DDC and DEBs.
The Community Level
6.    Pre-school Committees. At the community level, pre-school committees would
have the principal responsibility for the management of the ECD centers and would be
trained for the purpose. Those pre-schools that are attached to primary schools and
managed by statutory pre-school committees, will expand their committees to include the
pre-school teacher and representatives of parents of pre-school children. Terms of
reference and composition of these committees are elaborated in the Project
Implementation Plan. Stand alone pre-schools will be managed by community



Annex F
Page 3 of 6
committees. These committees would receive training and technical assistance to
improve their managerial capabilities (see Annex C).
Supervision
7.    Strengthening both the quality and the amount of supervision of ECD teaching
and management practices is an important means that the project will use to improve the
quality of the centers. Currently, most ECD teachers and committees receive
considerably less technical guidance than they need. Partly this is because the ECD
program has expanded so quickly and into even difficult-to-access areas. The sample
survey conducted as part of project preparation showed that headmasters of primary
schools attached or linked to pre-schools often provide some supervision. Local
government sponsored centers are supervised by pre-school supervisors employed by
local governments. Assistant Inspectors of Schools at the zonal level also visit pre-
schools attached to primary schools. However, supervisory visits to the majority of ECD
centers tend to be irregular and even less frequent than once every 90 days, although
monthly technical supervision particularly of untrained preschool teachers would be a
more appropriate norm. The lack of a supervision strategy, standards, work routines and
training affects the quality of whatever supervisory interaction takes place.
8.    The project would seek to make supervision a more effective tool for improved
program performance in three ways. First, it would finance the cost of establishing
supervision protocols which emphasize supervision as an opportunity for problem solving
and in-service training for ECD teachers rather than as mainly an inspection function.
Second, the project would finance the training of supervisors in the application of the new
approach to supervision. Third, by a combination of redeploying and augmenting
DICECE staff, and training headmasters and primary school inspectors in the supportive
supervision of pre-schools, the project would raise the frequency, regularity and quality
of supervision to more satisfactory levels.
9.    The Inspectorate MOE would be responsible for formulating the new supervision
standards and work methodology. The protocols would derive from a careful analysis of
the main performance weaknesses. They would take into account the wide variations in
educational background and previous experience of ECD teachers as well as the
difference in professional skills between the 70% who remain untrained and those who
have completed the pre-service training course. The InspectoratelNACECE also would
develop and organize training programs to speed the effective adoption of the improved
approach to supervision.
10.   The project would test three ways of increasing the frequency, duration and
effectiveness of ECD teacher supervision. The first innovation would be to increase and
decentralize DICECE staff to the divisions. Under this option, one DICECE officer in
the grade of Assistant Lecturer would be assigned at the division level for every 50
preschools (approximately two officers per division). This ratio would permit one
supervisory visit to each pre-school every three months. While this is far less than
desirable, the use of program officers may improve the quality of supervision and



Annex F
Page 4 of 6
stationing them closer to the preschools should increase the supervisory time per visit.
The core DICECE staff at district level under that scenario would consist of four
professionals. Divisional DICECE staff would be brought to the district level as needed
to help teach the residential DICECE pre-service courses for untrained preschool
teachers. DICECE staff will be provided motorcycles.
11.   Secondly, the zonal inspectors of schools (ZIS) at the subdivision or zonal level
will be trained in pre-school supervision and their job descriptions revised to include the
supervision of pre-schools. The number of ZIS per division would be increased to enable
them to have a reasonable workload in view of the additional responsibility for about 30
pre-schools per ZIS. The divisional DICECE officer would supervise and provide in-
service training to the ZIS and would make regular spot visits to weak centers. Control
mechanisms will be put in place to ensure proper utilization of vehicles.
12.   Thirdly, the project would create formal supervisory linkages between head
teachers of primary school and neighboring ECD centers. Around 40% of centers already
are either attached or in some way linked to a primary school. Mapping school locations
would result in clusters of around five preschools for which head teachers would have
supervisory responsibility. The DICECE would train head teachers in supervision
methodology and practices. Head teachers would make monthly supervisory visit to each
ECD teacher in the particular cluster. Bicycles will be made available for purposes of
inspection.
Project Implementation
13.   Core components. NACECE will be responsible for implementing the core
components of Improved Teacher Performance/Training and Community
Mobilization/IEC. Two implementation models will be tested under the Community
Trust Funds/Support Grants and Health and Nutrition components. In the first model,
lead NGOs will be selected to implement the pilots in selected districts subject to
approval of work plans and budgets by the NECDIC and DECDICs. The NGOs will
support community based organizations in grassroots implementation. Criteria for
selection of national NGOs includes an established working relationship with GOK,
experience in ECD, financial management capacity and the contribution of counterpart
funds to cover overhead/administrative costs and project activities. In the second model,
the GOK will implement the pilot component with collaborating agencies at the district
level. Funds would flow directly to the districts where they would be disbursed
according to work plans approved by DECDICs and the NECDIC. The Transition Pilot
will be implemented by the MOE Inspectorate and KIE.
Project Implementation Manual
14.   A draft Project Implementation Manual (PIM) was submitted to IDA on April 1,
1996. The Manual lists the districts targeted for implementation of the pilot activities and
the criteria for their selection. To facilitate the process, a ranking of districts on the basis
of composite income, nutrition and education indicators has been prepared. On the basis



Annex F
Page 5 of 6
of these indicators, the GOK has made a preliminary selection of 24 districts for the
implementation of the pilot components. The further selection of districts for the
implementation of each pilot will be made on the basis of on-going activities in the
districts. The selection of NGO led and GOK led districts, similarly, will be based on the
extent and nature of NGO presence in selected districts. Each district will have one type
of pilot activity and leadership provided by GOK or an NGO in a district will be mutually
exclusive. Implementation of the pilots at the community level is not expected to begin
before a full year of preparation including the selection of NGOs and training. The PIM
lists the activities under each component, persons responsible, time table and costs. The
Manual also provides job descriptions, qualifications, recruitment timetables and work
routines for key positions at various levels.
15.   Annual project plans for each fiscal year (July to June) will be submitted to IDA
in January of each year, following a joint review of project implementation. A mid-term
review of the project will be held in February 1999. The results of the evaluation,
particularly of the pilots, will be used for purposes of structured learning and any
necessary adjustments in project design and implementation.



Annex F
Page 6 of 6
Organization Structure - Early Child Development Project
National Steering
Committee
NACECE                   Project Coordinator
(Teachers Training             (Head of MOE
and Community                  ECD Unit)
Mobilization)
_      ~~NGOs    _GOK
(Grants - Pilot Health    (Grants - Pilot Health
& Nutrition Pilots)    /Nutrition Pilot)
District Steering
Committee
DICECE
Comimunity Preschool
Committee
ECD Center



Annex G
Page 1 of 10
MONITORING AND EVALUATION COMPONENT
A. Objectives
1.    The Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) component would have three goals: first,
to track the supply of ECD and other inputs in the project; second, to monitor project
outcomes, such as increased participation, especially by disadvantaged groups, in ECD
centers and improved quality of ECD services; and finally, to evaluate the impact of the
project and its components, wherever possible, on measures of child outcomes, such as
the cognitive, social and physical development of children.
B. Framework and Indicators
2.    The impact on child outcomes of ECD services provided by the project can best
be viewed as a series of production processes involving different inputs and outputs. The
ultimate output of this process is the cognitive, social and physical development of the
child. Among the many inputs determining this outcome are the (unobserved) innate
ability of the child, socioeconomic status of the family, the environment of the
community in which the child resides, and the 'output' of ECD services.
3.    The latter is itself 'produced' by various ECD inputs, such as teaching staff, care
givers, home facilities, school and classroom facilities, learning materials, and
community involvement, among other things. The project and its components thus
represent the first stage of inputs into the 'production' of child development.
Intermediate outputs of the project would include the total number of children, as well as
the number of children from underprivileged family backgrounds, participating in ECD
centers and the quality of ECD services being provided.
4.    Each set of inputs and outputs in the production process is measurable by various
indicators. For instance, project inputs can be measured by the amount of funds spent on
different components, the number of teachers or care givers trained, and the number and
type of school feeding programs operated. An illustrative list of project output indicators
would include increased enrollment rates (aggregate and separately for each gender and
for different age and spatial groups); increased availability of ECD services for children
from low-income backgrounds; improved quality of learning materials and classroom
facilities; increased levels of community and parental participation in ECD activities; and
more comprehensive coverage of immunization and feeding programs.
5.    Non-project inputs into child quality can be divided into three categories: child-
level factors (such as age, sex and birth order); household-level variables (such as
household size, parental age, occupation, education, and family income); and community-
level variables (such as the availability and quality of existing school and health
infrastructure).



Annex G
Page 2 of 10
6.    Finally, sample indicators of child outcomes would include, inter alia, letter and
word recognition, language and arithmetic skills, reading skills, and intelligence-test
scores (cognitive development); age of entry into primary school and grade progression in
primary school (primary school readiness); weight, height, and sensory motor skills
(physical development); and peer group interaction and classroom participation (social
development).
C. Detailed Description of the Monitoring Component
(a) Nature of data to be collected
7.    The existing MOE and DICECE staff at the district, divisional, and zonal levels
will be used for monitoring purposes. These include the DEO, EO, School Inspectors,
AEO, ZIS, TACT, and the ECD Officer. In addition, to ensure data reliability and
utilization of data by final users, it is proposed that most of the monitoring data at the
center level be collected by preschool teachers and head teachers.
8.    At the ECD center, monitoring data would be collected by means of three
instruments: child cards, center registers and wallcharts, and a survey of ECD centers.
9.    Child Card. Every center would be required to maintain a register. One copy of
the card would be kept at the center, and another copy would be kept by the child's
mother. The child card would consolidate information already being collected in the
admission and attendance records that are maintained by most preschools. In addition to
basic identification details (such as name, parents' names, address,
village/zone/division/district of residence, etc.), information would be collected on the
child's characteristics (viz., age, sex, birth order in the family, type of disability, if any,
and place of birth) and family background (e.g., parents' occupation, age and education).
10.   The child card would also include a running health and immunization record that
would note the dates and results of anthropometic measurements and immunizations
received by a child. In addition, a running attendance record would note the number of
days in each month that the child was absent from the center for reasons of ill health,
nonpayment of fees, or other factors. Finally, an assessment record would note the dates
and results of any cognitive or social assessments or tests performed on the child.
11.   Center Register and Wall Chart. In addition, each center would maintain a
preprinted register and wallchart where aggregated information from the child cards and
on the center worker's performance would be noted monthly. The center register would
contain data on no more than 15 monitoring indicators, while the wallchart would report
even fewer -- say, 8 -- indicators. Examples of these indicators are: center attendance
rate during the preceding month, number of children immunized, supervisory visits to the
center, and time spent by the center worker in major activities (e.g., stimulation, teaching,
health and nutrition, counseling, training, etc.). The wallchart would be put up in a
location for maximum visibility. It would be erasable, so that the information on it could
be readily erased and updated each month.



Annex G
Page 3 of 10
12.   Survey of Centers. A one-time sample survey of centers participating in the
project would be undertaken at the time of project initiation. The survey would be
updated annually to note any changes taking place over the course of the year. A 10%
probability sample of all centers participating in the project will yield a sufficiently large
sample size to provide representative monitoring data. This sample will have to be
stratified by geographical region as well as by project component for retaining
representativeness.
13.   The information to be reported would be similar to that covered in the 1994
Survey of ECD Centers. (Indeed, the same sample of centers selected for the 1994 survey
could be used.) Briefly, it would include the center's name, address, registration number
(if any), sponsorship, and the type of attachment (if any) of the center to a primary
school. In addition, information would be collected on the physical facilities of the center
(viz., number of rooms in the home, type of classrooms; and numbers of functioning
toilets, desks, blackboards, water fountains, and play fields). Data would also be obtained
on the number of school committee and PTA meetings; frequency and coverage of
school-wide medical and nutritional interventions, such as deworming, growth
monitoring, and vitamin A supplementation; and frequency and type of school feeding
programs. In addition, the survey would note the dates and types of specific project
interventions.
14.   Finally, the survey would obtain detailed information on each staff member,
including his/her function (e.g., child care, whether teaching, administration, etc.); date
and manner of recruitment in the center; initial academic and professional qualifications
at the time of recruitment; the date, type and duration of any additional training obtained
while employed at the center; and the value of salary and other benefits received.
(b) Frequency of Data Collection
15.   Child cards would be updated continuously, and would contain precise dates of
events (such as immunizations). For example, information on a child's family
background would be collected only once, either upon the child's admission in an ECD
center or at the time of the center's induction into the project (for children already
enrolled in the center). Likewise, whenever a child would be weighed, his/her weight
would be recorded, along with the date of the measurement, on the child card. Center
registers and wallcharts would be updated on a monthly basis. The baseline sample
survey of ECD centers would be undertaken at the time of project initiation, and updated
for any changes each year.
(c) Selection of ECD Centers
16.   Child cards would be maintained by all centers participating in the project. The
survey of centers would be administered to approximately 10% of all centers participating
in any component of the project. Centers will be selected for inclusion in the survey on
the basis of several criteria, including geographic location, socioeconomic status, and
participation in various components of the project. A certain number of centers will be
surveyed in the first year even though the project might not be phased in these centers



Annex G
Page 4 of 10
until a later period. These centers would provide a matched control group in years one
and two of the project, thus permitting comparison of process outcomes in communities
exposed and not exposed to the project intervention.
(d) Who would collect the data?
17.   Community Health Workers and Head teachers at the ECD center would be
responsible for maintaining child cards for each of their pupils. Center registers and
wallcharts would be maintained by the head teacher or other center workers. The survey
of centers would be undertaken by a team comprised of technical consultants, MOE staff
and staff from the Central Bureau of Statistics.
(e) Transmission and Use of Monitoring Data (Management Information System)
18.   Each quarter, the ECD officer or DICECE officer-in-charge would collect
information from the child cards, center registers and center wallcharts in each of the
centers in his/her area, and bring it to the DICECE office. The information would be
entered in a computerized database at the DICECE office. (In DICECE offices that do
not have electricity or computers, the information would be entered manually on a coding
sheet.) Periodically - say, every quarter - the DICECE office would transmit the
information electronically - or manually in the case of offices not having computers,
telephones or fax/modems - to the PPE section in the MOE, which would maintain a
national database of ECD-enrolled children and ECD centers.
19.   There would be several ways in which the management information system (MIS)
could be used for district planning purposes. First, trends in enrollments, by age group,
socioeconomic group, and gender, could be calculated for the entire district as well as
zones within the district. This would indicate progress that the district and its divisions
were making in expanding access to and improving equity in the provision of ECD
services. Likewise, trends in immunization rates, anthropometric indicators, and child
assessment indicators would provide important evidence on the progress (and
weaknesses) of the project in specific areas. Comparisons of enrollment rates and other
indicators across centers participating in various components of the project and those not
participating in these components, with appropriate controls for other variables, would
indicate the marginal effects of different project components on project outcomes.
20.   Second, a system would be set in place whereby the DICECE officer would
supply certain aggregated information and profiles back to each of the centers in the
district. For instance, centers would receive information on how their enrollment trends,
nutritional status indicators or community mobilization efforts compared against other
centers in the district. The pointing out of specific areas of weaknesses and strengths to
each center would permit centers to deploy their resources differently or to target their
ECD services more narrowly to specific age, sex or socioeconomic groups. This is an
extremely important aspect of the monitoring component, and one whose importance
cannot be overemphasized.



Annex G
Page 5 of 10
21.   Third, the national database would be helpful in evaluating the impact of specific
project inputs on project outcomes, like national enrollments, teacher quality, and
participation in ECD by low-income groups. The monitoring data would also supplement
the mid-term and post-project impact evaluation to be undertaken. To the extent that
some centers reporting monitoring data would be ones where the project components
would only be phased in later, one would have a control group of centers not (yet)
exposed to project intervention.
D. Detailed Description of the Evaluation Component
22.   The evaluation component differs from the monitoring component in that it will
deal with the impact of the project on child outcomes. For a proper evaluation exercise,
children not exposed to project intervention will be needed as a control (comparison)
group. This in turn implies that ECD center-based data are not sufficient for evaluating
the impact of ECD services on child outcomes; the data would have to come from a
general survey of households, some of whose children have been exposed to ECD
services and others not.
23.   The evaluation component will consist of a baseline survey of households to be
undertaken around the time of project initiation (January - July 1997). The sampling
design will have to be developed so as to ensure inclusion of control households that will
not have access to project-supported ECD centers as well as sufficient coverage of
households exposed to different project components. In addition, the sample will need to
include a sufficient number of children of different ages in each of the project
intervention and control groups to undertake cohort-specific analysis. A sample of 5,000
households may need to be fielded, of which approximately one-half will be drawn from
the catchment areas of ECD centers participating in the project. The selection of
communities for surveying will require planning as treatment groups will have to be
matched to control groups on the basis of socioeconomic, demographic and
infrastructural characteristics.
24.   Because the cognitive, social and physical development of children is determined
by much more than ECD program intervention, the household survey will have to be a
general-purpose one that obtains information on a wide range of individual-, household-,
and community-level variables. Because cognitive and social development are important
outcomes that may be influenced by early childhood education, the baseline survey will
include well-established psychological tests of cognitive achievement, intelligence, and
social interaction (administered to, say, a subset of sample children).
25.   The same households will be resurveyed for a mid-term evaluation in year three
(January 1999) of the project and once again for the final evaluation at the end of year
five (viz., January 2001). The repeat surveys will obtain broadly similar data as the
baseline survey.
26.   Because of the large size of the data sets generated from the longitudinal
evaluation surveys and the complex nature of the methodology involved in proper



Annex G
Page 6 of 10
evaluation work, the impact evaluation will need to be undertaken by a group of technical
consultants and staff from the Central Bureau of Statistics that are familiar with large-
scale data collection and analysis. This group will work in close collaboration with
NACECE and the MOE at all stages of the evaluation - survey design, data collection,
and data analysis. Indeed, since the Central Bureau of Statistics (CBS) is proposing to
field a national Welfare Monitoring Survey of Households annually, the project might not
even need to conduct separate evaluation surveys. With (a) minor modifications,
including an additional module, to the basic WMS questionnaire, (b) better coordination
on timing of the surveys with the CBS, and (c) additional purposive over-sampling of
households in project intervention regions, it might be possible to use the proposed WM
surveys as the baseline, midterm and post-project evaluation surveys" This will result in
considerable costs savings.
E. Detailed Description of Special Studies
27.  In addition to the monitoring and evaluation exercises described above, there will
be a need for special studies that: (a) address policy development issues; (b) deal with
operational research issues; and (c) evaluate anv specific issues or problems not covered
by the regular M&E activities (e.g., training and supervision). For example, monitoring
data from the child cards, center registers and wallcharts, and the survey of centers will
provide quantitative information on project outcomes. They will not permit monitoring
qualitative changes taking place among parents and communities in behavior and
attitudes, as well as monitoring such things as the effectiveness and appropriateness of
curriculum changes as perceived by teachers. For this reason, it would be important to
supplement the quantitative data on monitoring with qualitative information obtained
from small focus group discussions with teachers, parents and communities. These could
be the basis of a special study.
28.   Another set of special studies would focus on evaluation of specific project
components. For instance, the issue of which package of health and nutritional
interventions -- immunization, Vitamin A supplementation, deworming -- is the most
cost-effective is one that calls for a more focused evaluation. Likewise, the most
effective mode of delivery in the community mobilization component is an operational
research issue that is best addressed by a special study devoted entirely to this question.
29.   Not all of the special studies that need to be undertaken can be described in
advance; the need for some of them might be felt during the course of the project.
F. Organization and Management
30.   At the national level, the overall manager of the component would be the head of
the Research and Evaluation group within the MOE. He or she would chair an M&E
working group, whose membership would include representatives from the Ministry of
Education, Ministry of Health, Central Bureau of Statistics, NGOs active in ECD and
technical consultants.



Annex G
Page 7 of 10
31.   At the district level, a steering committee for M&E would be established under
the chairmanship of the DEO, and would include the District Statistics Officer, EO,
School Inspectors, AEO, ASI, TACT, the ECD Officer, and representatives of parents'
committees, teachers' committees, and NGOs. This committee would oversee all M&E
activities in the district. The District Statistics Officer (DSO) would be an important
player in this activity, since he/she currently is responsible for collection and
management of all data at the district level. However, in practice, most DSOs, who are
education officers, allocate their time to several non-data-related activities. For the DSOs
to be the chief M&E persons in a district, they would have to be released from their other
duties by the DEO.
32.   In addition to data collection, management and analysis, the responsibilities of the
DSO will include dissemination of monitoring information to the District Education
Board and the District Development Committee and to the division people.
G. Training and Equipment
33.   Currently, all preprimary school data are compiled and analyzed manually. A
computerized management information system (MIS) will be an absolute necessity for
using large amounts of monitoring data to make quick and appropriate planning decisions
at the center, district and national level. Computers equipped with fax/data modems are,
therefore, budgeted for each participating DICECE office. These will be used for data
entry, cleaning, management and analysis, as well as transmission and receipt of data
to/from the MOE and NACECE on a continuous basis. In DICECE offices that do not
have electricity or telephone connections, the provision of computers with fax/modems
will be staggered, and the project will attempt to find better rental space for these offices.
In addition, depending upon the availability of funds, the project could provide for a
computer networking system (including electronic mail facility) within the Ministry of
Education and NACECE to facilitate intradepartmental communication.
34.   At this time, all monitoring and evaluation work, as well as analysis of data
collected at the district level, is done at the national level. However, the capacity for
undertaking rapid assessments based on data and using these assessments to alter program
design or implementation remains weak at the national level. The project will provide for
two new staff positions - data entry person and data analyst - at both the MOE and the
NACECE. In addition, the project will attempt to build basic data collection,
management and analysis capacity at the district level. This will involve training of
District Statistical Officers in data entry, database management, simple analysis of
monitoring data, and dissemination of monitoring analysis back to the ECD centers.
Finally, the project will provide minimal training in the maintenance and updating of
child cards, center registers and center wall-charts to ECD center head-teachers and
workers.



Annex G
Page 8 of 10
H. Tentative Implementation Plan
Quarter I    Selection of M&E Working Group at national level
Year 1:      Selection of M&E Steering Committee at district levels
Installation of computerized MIS in the district
Training of District Statistics Officers in data entry, management
and analysis
Selection of technical consultants, preparation of baseline sample
survey instrument, sampling design, pretest of questionnaire, etc.
Finalization of child card, center register and center walichart
design, and printing of these forms
Quarter 2    Baseline survey of households Distribution of child cards, center
Year 1:      registers and center wallcharts to all ECD centers
Baseline survey of ECD centers
Quarter 4    Analysis of data from baseline survey of households
Year 1:      Analysis of data from baseline survey of ECD centers
Quarter 2    Mid-term evaluation survey of households
Year 3:
Quarter 3    Analysis of midterm evaluation survey data
Year 3       Dissemination of results
Quarter 4    Final impact evaluation survey of households
Year 5:
Quarter I    Analysis of final evaluation survey
Year 6:      Dissemination of results



Annex G
Page 9 of 10
Key Performance Indicators
Kenya: Early Child Development Project
Performance Indicator                       Planned             Actual        %
(specified annually in the AWPB)        Difference
Input Indicators
Percent of funds disbursed to components:
(a) Teacher Training
(b) Community Capacity Building
(c) Health & Nutrition Pilot
(d) Community Matching Grants
Process Indicators
Project processing time, by component
Overhead costs as percentage of total project costs
Number of new ECD centers opened
Avg. amount of matching-grant contributions raised by
communities for preschools
Number of supervisory visits by DICECE & Inspectorate
& local authority staff to ECD centers
Output Indicators
Enrollment rate in ECD/home based centers
(% of all children aged 3-6 yrs), by gender
Enrollment rate in ECD centers, by gender, for children
belonging to poorest income quintile
Number of preschool teachers trained
Avg. attendance rate for children in ECD centers (%)
Proportion of children aged 0-3 and 3-6 yrs covered by:
(a) deworming campaigns
(b) Vitamin A supplementation
(c) growth-monitoring campaigns
Number of preschool parents' committees formed
Annual number of meetings held by preschool parents'
committees
Avg. presence/attendance rate for ECD teachers
& workers (%)
Avg. weekly contact hours in ECD centers (hours)
Output Indicators
% of ECD centers constructed out of permanent materials
Avg. ratio of pupils to books and other learning materials
% of parents who say they are involved in
preschool activities
% of ECD centers having a school/center plan
Outcome Indicators
Letter and word recognition among children 3-6 yrs
Weight and height for age of children aged 0-3 & 3-6 yrs
Modal age at entry into primary school
Gross primary enrollment rate
Repetition & drop-out rates in Standards I-IV
(primary school)



Annex G
Page 10 of 10
Midterm Evaluation
35.   Midtern evaluation of the project will be undertaken with three instruments: a
repeat survey of ECD centers, a repeat survey of households, and a participatory
beneficiary assessment. For the household survey, sampling design will have to be
developed so as to ensure inclusion of control households that will not have access to
project-supported ECD centers as well as sufficient coverage of households exposed to
different project components. The repeat household survey will obtain information on
household income, household expenditure on preprimary (and primary) education,
parental education and age, and the nurnber of children and their age, sex, weight, height,
immunization status, participation in preschool or school, and performance on simple
cognitive tests. A comparison of the results from the baseline household survey with
those from the midterm survey, with appropriate controls for project intervention and
changes in household situations, will indicate the midterm impact of the project on
outcome indicators.
36.   The repeat survey of ECD centers will focus on physical facilities, software (i.e.,
books, learning materials) availability, number of trained teachers, involvement of school
and parents committees in school management, and frequency and coverage of center-
wide deworming, growth monitoring and nutritional supplementation activities. As in the
case of the household survey, a comparison of the results from the baseline survey of
ECD centers with those from the midterm ECD center survey, with appropriate controls
for project intervention, will indicate the midterm impact of the project on output
indicators.
37.   Finally, the participatory beneficiary assessment will use focus-group discussion
methods to (midterm) evaluate the impact of the project on community and parental
attitudes and outlooks toward preprimary education and on classroom practices and ECD
teacher philosophies. In addition, the beneficiary assessment will try to measure the
satisfaction of parents and communities with the project intervention and solicit their
suggestions and comments on changes in project design and implementation.



Annex H
Page I of 12
DETAILED PROJECT COST BREAKDOWN
Table 1 Project Cost Summary
(KSh '000)                                        (US s '000)
% Foreign   % Total                                % Foreign   % Total
Local  Foreign       Total  Exchange Base Cost      Local  Foreign      Total  Exchange Base Cost
A. Core Service Delivery Support
1. Improved Teacher Training            264,662     6,600    271,262        2%        17%      4,812       120     4,932        2%       17%
2. Community Capacity Bldg. & Mobiliz.    163,700   33,088    196,788       17%       13%      2,976       602     3,578       17%        13%
B. Pilot Components
1. Health and Nutrition                 164,953    81,569    246,522       33%       16%       2,999     1,483     4,482       33%       16%
2. Community Grants                     275,000         0    275,000        0%        18%      5,000         0     5,000        0%        18%
3. Transition to Primary School          44,515         0     44,515        0%         3%       809          0       809        0%        3%
C. Project Management
1. Institutional Strengthening          374,481   106,043    480,524       22%       31%       6,809     1,928     8,737       22%       31%
2. Monitoring and Evaluation             46,103     9,800     55,903       18%        4%        838        178     1,016       18%        4%
Total Baseline Cost                       1,333,413   237,100   1,570,514      15%      100%     24,244     4,311    28,555       15%       100%
Physical Contingencies                      66,671    11,855     78,526                   5%      1,212       216     1,428                   5%
Price Contingencies                        240,014   42,678    282,692                   18%      4,364       776     5,140                  18%
Total Project Cost                        1,640,098  291,633   1,931,732                123%     29,820     5,302    35,122                 123%



Annex H
Page 2 of 12
Table 2 Improved Teacher Performance Component
(Ksh '000)                                          (US $ '000)
Investment Cost               Units  Unit Cost    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001    Total
A. Training of Teachers               (KSh)
1. Two-year In-Service Tmg    13,750    13,800   35,880   39,330   35,880   39,330   39,330  189,750    652    715    652    715    715    3,450
2. Five-Week Course        8,550     2,750    7,150    7,838    7,838    7,838       0   30,663     130    143    143    143         0      558
3. Two-Week Course         8,550     1,380    3,933    3,933    3,933       0        0   11,799      72     72      72       0       0      215
B. Training of Trainers
1. Short Course              500    11,000    1,100    1,100    1,100    1,100    1,100    5,500     20      20      20     20      20      100
2. Supervisor Course         150    33,000      990      990      990     990      990    4,950      18      18      18      18      18      90
3. Trng of DICECE Trainers   200    55,000    2,200    2,200    2,200    2,200    2,200   11,000     40      40      40      40      40     200
C. Degree Course
1. Undergraduate (Kenya)      20   275,000    1,375    1,375    1,375    1,375       0    5,500      25      25      25     25       0      100
2. Graduate (Kenya)            4   550,000      550      550      550     550        0    2,200      10      10      10      10       0      40
3. Graduate (Foreign)          2 6,600,000    1,650    1,650    1,650    1,650       0    6,600      30      30      30      30       0      120
D. Cuniculum Development                         2,200    1,100       0        0        0    3,300      40      20       0       0      0       60
Total Cost-Improved Teachers' Training           57,028   60,066   55,516   55,033   43,620  271,262   1,037   1,092   1,009   1,001    793    4,932



Annex H
Page 3 of 12
Table 2 Improved Teacher Performance Component (cont.)
Assumptions: Improved Teachers' Performance
Training                         No. of Teachers/Triners
A. Training of Teachers        Total      1997    199I    1999    2000    2001
1. Two-year in-Service Tmg  13,750    2,600    2,850    2,600    2,850    2,850
2. Five-Week Course         8,550     2,850    2,850    2,850
3. Two-Week Course          8,550     2,850    2,850    2,850
B. Training of Triners
1. Short Course               500       100      100      100     100      100
2. Supervisor Course          150        30       30       30      30       30
3. TrainingofTrainers         200        40       40       40      40       40
4. Degree Course
Undergraduatc               20         5        5        5        5
Graduate (Kenya)              4        2        2
Graduate (Foreign)            2         1        1
Unit Cost US S
Unit Cost     1997    1998    1999    2000    2001
Traiing of Teachers           USS
1. Two-year In-Service Training  250     250      250      250     250      250
2. Five-Week Course             50        50       50       50       50       50
3. Two-Week Course              25        25       25       25       25       25
Training of Trainers
1. Short Course                200       200      200      200      200     200
2. Supervisor Course           600       600      600      600      600      600
3. Training of Tainas (DICECE)   2,000  2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000
4. Degree Course
Undergraduate              5,000     5,000    5,000    5,000    5,000    5,000
MA Degree (Kenya)          10,000    10,000   10,000   10,000   10,000   10,000
PhD Degree (Foreign)     120,000   120,000  120,000  120,000  120,000  120,000



Annex H
Table 3 Community Capacity Building and Mobilization Component                                                                      Page 4 of 12
(KSh '000)                                              (US $'000)
I. Investment Cost                            1997        1998       1999    2000    2001   Total   1997    1998   1999  2000 2001   Total
A. Mobilization
1. National Orientation                 2,750      2,750          0        0        0   5,500      50      50      0     0    0       100
2. District Orientation                  2,750      4,675      2,750   2,750        0  12,925      50      85      50    50    0    235
3. PRA Workshops                         1,375      1,375      1,375   1,375        0   5,500      25      25     25    25    0       100
4. Teaching Aides/Materials                 0        275         275     275        0     825       0       5       5     5    0       15
Sub-Total Mobilization                      6,875      9,075      4,400   4,400        0  24,750      125    165      80    80    0    450
B. IEC Materials Production                27,500     55,000     27,500       0        0 110,000     500   1,000    500      0    0   2,000
Units Unit Cost
C. IEC Equipment
Radio Cassette Recorder   58       120     191          0        191        0       0      383       3       0      3     0    0        7
Video Machine and TV S    58     1,100   1,755          0       1,755       0       0   3,509       32       0     32     0    0       64
Overhead Projectors       30       900     743          0          0        0       0      743      14       0      0     0    0       14
Video Camera               1    2,800       77          0          0        0       0       77       1       0      0     0    0        1
Still Camera              30       370     305          0          0        0       0      305       6       0      0     0    0        6
Typewriters               58     1,800   2,871          0       2,871       0       0   5,742       52       0     52     0    0      104
Duplicating Machines      30    3,000   2,475           0       2,475       0       0   4,950       45       0     45     0    0       90
Photocopier               30    7,200   5,940           0       5,940       0       0   11,880     108       0    108     0    0    216
Laminators                30       800    660           0          0        0       0      660      12       0      0     0    0       12
Paper Guillotines         30       180     149          0          0        0       0      149       3       0      0     0    0        3
Desk Calculators          30       180     149          0          0        0       0      149       3       0      0     0    0        3
Pocket Calculators        88        24      58          0          0        0       0       58       1       0      0     0    0         1
Gardening Tools           58       370     590          0        590        0       0    1,180      11       0     11     0    0       21
Sewing Machines           76       360     752          0          0        0       0      752      14       0      0     0    0       14
Cookers                  116       800   2,552          0          0        0       0   2,552       46       0      0     0    0       46
Sub-totalEquipmentCost                     19,266         0      13,822       0        0  33,088     350       0    251      0     0     602
Sub-total Investment Cost                    53,641     64,075     45,722   4,400        0 167,838     975   1,165    831    80    0   3,052
II. Recurrent Cost
Community Mobilization Officer            3,960      3,960       3,960   3,960    3,960   19,800     72      72     72    72   72      360
Supplies, Miscellaneous                     330        330        330     330      330    1,650       6       6      6     6    6       30
Office Equipment Maintenance              1,500      1,500       1,500   1,500    1,500   7,500      27      27     27    27   27       136
Sub-Total Recurrent Cost                      5,790      5,790      5,790   5,790    5,790  28,950      105     105    105   105   105     526
Total Cost-Community Mobiliz/Cap Bldg.       59,431     69,865     51,512  10,190    5,790  196,788   1,081   1,270    937   185  105   3,578



Annex H
Page 5 of 12
Table 4 Health and Nutrition Component
I. Investment Cost                                     (KSh '000)                                           (US $ '000)
A. Training                             1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
CHN Aides/Supervisors/Trainers
Pre-service Course Development        360      90      360       90      90      990        7       2        7       2        2       18
Training Support Materials            300      75      300       75      75      825        5       1        5        1       1       15
CHNA Pre-service Training               0   11,400   11,400   11,400   11,400   45,600     0      207      207     207      207      829
Supervisor Pre-service Training         0      92       92      92       92      368       0        2        2       2        2        7
In-service CHNA Resident. Trng          0     990      990     990      990    3,960       0       18       18       18      18       72
Training of Trainers for
CHNAs/Superv                                70      35       35       35      35      210        1        1       1        1       1        4
Miscellaneous Training              3,500    3,000       0        0       0        0      64       55        0       0        0        0
Sub-total Training                     4,230   15,682   13,177   12,682   12,682   51,953    77      285      240     231      231      945
B. Equipment
Electronic UNICEF Scales @
Sh.3300/ea                       2200    1,815    1,815    1,815    1,815      0    7,260      33       33       33      33        0      132
Length boards, tapes                  330      330     330      330        0    1,320       6        6       6        6        0      24
Bicycles, revolving fund basis        750        0       0        0        0     750       14        0       0        0       0       14
Motorcycle @150,000 ea.       20        0    1,500    1,500       0        0    3,000       0       27      27        0       0       55
Storage cabinet - drugs/suppl
5,000 ea.                        2000             5,000    5,000       0       0   10,000        0      91       91       0        0      182
Sub-total Equipment                    2,895    8,645    8,645    2,145       0   22,330      53      157     157       39        0     406
Total Investment Cost                    7,125   24,327   21,822   14,827   12,682   74,283    130     442      397     270      231    1,351
IL Recurrent Cost
A. Personnel
Health Supervisor/Coord
@Kshl65,000                        20    3,300    3,300    3,300    3,300    3,300   16,500     60      60       60      60       60      300
CHN Aide Year 2 Recruit                0    3,600    2,700    1,800    900    9,000       0       65       49      33       16      164
CHN Aide Year 3 Recruit                0       0    3,600    2,700    1,800    8,100      0        0       65      49       33      147
CHN Aide Year 4 Recruit                0       0        0    3,600    2,700    6,300      0        0        0      65       49      115
CHN Aide Year 5 Recruit                0       0        0       0    3,600    3,600       0        0        0       0       65       65
Sub-total Personnel                   3,300    6,900    9,600   11,400   12,300   43,500     60      125     175      207      224     791



Annex H
Page 6 of 12
Table 4 Health and Nutrition Component (cont.)
II. Recurrent Cost (continued)             1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
B. Drugs and Supplies                                                                           0        0       0        0        0        0
Vitamin A caps                          0      500    1,000    1,500    2,000    5,000       0        9       18      27       36       91
Iron/folate caps                        0    1,500    3,000    4,500    6,000   15,000       0      27       55       82      109      273
ORS packet                              0    1,500    3,000    4,500    6,000   15,000       0      27       55       82      109      273
First aid supplies                      0    2,200    2,200    2,200    2,200    8,800       0       40      40       40       40      160
Mabelndazol                             0      158     315      472      630    1,575        0        3       6        9       11       29
Praziquantel                            0      180     360      540      720    1,800        0        3       7       10       13       33
Chloroquine              800 pks        0       16       16      16       16       64        0        0       0        0        0        1
Iodine caps              800 pks        0    3,000    3,000    3,000    3,000   12,000       0       55      55       55       55      218
Sub-Total Drugs and Supplies                0    9,054   12,891   16,728   20,566   59,239      0      165      234      304      374    1,077
C. Health/Nutrition IEC
Materials development                6,500    6,500    3,250    3,250       0   19,500      118      118      59       59        0      355
Materials production/distribution            10,000   15,000   25,000       0   50,000        0      182     273      455        0      909
Sub-total IEC                           6,500   16,500   18,250   28,250       0   69,500     118      300      332      514        0    1,264
Total Recurrent Cost                      9,800   32,454   40,741   56,378   32,866  172,239     178     590      741    i,025      598    3,132
Total Cost - Health/Nutrition Comp.      16,925   56,781   62,563   71,205   45,548  246,522     308    1,032    1,138    1,295     828    4,482



Annex H
Page 7 of 12
Table 5 Community Grants Component
(KSh '000)                                          (US S '000)
1997     1998     1999      2000     2001    Total   1997    1998    1999    2000    2001   Total
I. Investment Cost
Community Grants                       55,000   55,000   55,000   55,000  220,000             1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000   4,000
II. Recurrent Cost
Grants Monitoring/Operating  11,000    11,000   11,000   11,000   11,000   55,000     200      200     200     200     200   1,000
Total Cost                      11,000   66,000   66,000   66,000   66,000  275,000      200   1,200   1,200   1,200   1,200   5,000



Annex H
Page 8 of 12
Table 6 Transitions from Pre-primary to Primary Schooling Component
(KSh '000)                                     (US $ '000)
1997     1998      1999      2000     2001     Total      1997      1998     1999      2000      2001     Total
L. Investment Cost
A. Curriculum Development      1,375                                           1,375       25
B. Materials Dev/Production             2,750     5,500     8,250    11,000   27,500                 50       100       150      200       500
C. Teachers' Training                   2,750     2,750    2,750     2,750    11,000                 50        50        50       50       200
D. Training of Trainers                   550       550      550       550    2,200                  10        10        10        10       40
II. Recurrent Cost
Exam Inspector (2)             325       325      325       325       325     1,625        6         6         6         6        6        30
Inspector/Registration (1)     163       163       163      163       163       815        3         3         3         3        3        15
Total Cost                       1,863    6,538     9,288    12,038    14,788   44,515       34       119       169       219      269       809



Annex H
Page 9 of 12
Table 7 Institutional Strengthening Component
(KSh '000)                                   (US$ '000)
New      Base
Positions  Salary     1997    1998    1999   2000   2001    Total  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001 Total
L Recurrent Cost
A. Salaries
1. MOE Preschool Section
Project Coordinator                           203     203     203     203      203     203    1,015      4      4      4     4      4    18
Deputy Head Section                           188     188      188     188     188     188      941      3      3      3     3      3    17
M/EDataAnalyst                    1           141     141     141      141     141     141      704      3      3      3     3      3    13
MlE Data Entry                                123     123      123     123     123     123      616      2      2      2     2      2    11
Health/Nutrition Coord            1           138     138      138     138     138     138      690      3      3      3     3      3    13
Training Coord                                138     138     138      138     138     138      690      3      3      3     3      3    13
CommunityDev. Coord.              1           138     138      138     138     138     138      690      3      3      3     3      3    13
Supplies Officer                              123     123     123      123     123     123      616      2      2      2     2      2    11
Supplies Clerk                                 86      86      86       86      86      86      430      2      2      2     2      2      8
Accountant                         1          123     123      123     123     123     123      615      2      2      2     2      2    11
Accounts Clerk                     1           99      99       99      99      99      99      495      2      2      2     2      2      9
Typist (2)                                    170     170     170      170     170     170      850      3      3      3     3      3    15
Drivers (2)                       1           148     148     148      148     148     148      740      3      3      3     3      3    13
Office Attendant (2)              1            98      98      98       98      98      98      490      2      2      2     2      2      9
Sub-total Preschool Section                                                                      9,582                                     174
2. NACECE
Program Coordinator                           223     223     223     223      223     223    1,338      4      4      4     4      4    24
Dept. Program Coordinator                     203     203     203     203      203     203    1,218      4      4      4     4      4    22
Dept Training Off                             185     185     185      185     185     185    1,110      3      3      3     3      3    20
DeptCurriculumOff                             185     185      185     185     185     185    1,110      3      3      3     3      3    20
Dept Comm Educ Off                            185     185     185      185     185     185    1,110      3      3      3     3      3    20
Dept Human Dev. Off                           185     185     185      185     185     185    1,110      3      3      3     3      3    20
Dept Research Eval Off                        185     185      185     185     185     185    1,110      3      3      3     3      3    20
Dept Resource Dev Mgmt Off                    185     185     185      185     185     185    1,110      3      3      3     3      3    20
Accountant (1)                                121     121      121     121     121     121      726      2      2      2     2      2    13
Typist/Clerk (13)                           1,255   1,255   1,255   1,255   1,255   1,255    7,530    23    23    23    23    23   137
Office Attendant (4)                          295     295     295     295      295     295    1,770      5      5      5     5      5    32



Annex H
Page 10 of 12
Table 7 Institutional Strengthening Component (cont.)
(KSh '000)                                 (US$ '000)
New      Base
2. NACECE (cont.)               Positions  Salary     1997   1998   1999   2000   2001    Total 1997  1998  1999  2000  2001 Total
Technician (4)                              485    485    485    485    485    485    2,910          9      9     9     9      9    53
Resource Assistant (3)                      300    300    300    300    300    300    1,800          5      5     5     5      5    33
Driver (6)                                  507    507    507    507    507    507    3,042          9      9     9     9      9    55
Sub-total NACECE                                                                             26,994                                   491
3. Inspectorate
Section Head                                185    185    185    185    185    185    1,110          3      3     3     3      3    20
Inspection/Registration                     325    325    325    325    325    325    1,950          6      6     6     6      6    35
Inspector M&E (2)                1          325    325    325    325    325    325    1,950          6      6     6     6      6    35
Typists (2)                                 169    169    169    169    169    169    1,014          3      3     3     3      3    18
Clerks (2)                                  169    169    169    169    169    169    1,014          3      3     3     3      3    18
Driver (2)                                  148    148    148    148    148    148           888     3      3     3     3      3    16
Office Attendant (1)                         49      49      49      49      49      49      294     1      1     1      1     1     5
Sub-total Inspectorate                                                                        8,220 2,139 2,140 2,141 2,142 2,143   149
Existing Proposed
Estab.   Estab.  Unit Cost   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001    Total 1997  1998  1999  2000  2001 Total
4. DICECE
Principal Lecturer      5        5          200   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000    5,000    18    18    18    18    18    91
Senior Lecturer        16       60          170   5,270   6,630   7,820   9,010  10,200   38,930    96   121   142   164   185   708
Lecturer               44       85          165  10,725  11,550  12,375  13,200  14,025   61,875   195   210   225   240   255 1,125
Asst Lecturer          162       187         152  28,424  28,424  28,424  28,424  28,424  142,120   517   517   517   517   517 2,584
Clerk                   57       57           88   5,016   5,016   5,061   5,061   5,061   25,215    91    91    92    92    92   458
Drivers                 57       57           77   4,389   4,389   4,389   4,389   4,389   21,945    80    80    80    80    80   399
Sub-total DICECE                                    54,824  57,009  59,069  61,084  63,099  295,085   997 1,037 1,074 1,111  1,147 5,365
A. Total Salaries (National and District)                                                     339,881                                 6,180
B. Vehicle Maintenance/Operating Expenses                                                             1,994 2,073 2,148 2,221 2,295
C. Operating/Maintenance Cost                          5,400   7,300   7,300   7,300   7,300   34,600    98   133   133   133   133   629



Annex H
Page 11 of 12
Table 7 Institutional Strengthening Component (cont.)
II. Investment Cost                    Units  Unit Cost   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001    Total 1997  1998  1999  2000  2001 Total
Vehicles
4-wheel drive                        40        1,600  48,000  16,000                          64,000   873   291                     1,164
Motorcycle                           60          150   6,000   3,000                           9,000   109    55                       164
Bicycle                              180           7    630    630                             1,260    11    11                       23
Jikos                               232           2    232    232                               464      4     4                        8
Fridge                               29          60    900    840                              1,740    16    15                       32
Cooking utensils                     87          55   2,393   2,393                            4,786    44    44                       87
Dining utensils                      29          20    290    290                               580      5     5                        11
Circular saw                         29          50    725    725                              1,450    13    13                       26
Sanding machine                      29          90   1,305   1,305                            2,610    24    24                       47
Drilling machine                     29          60    870    870                              1,740    16    16                       32
Vice engineering                     29           10    145    145                              290      3     3                         5
Wood vice                            29           8    116    116                               232      2     2                        4
Embrail 25 kg                       29            8    116    116                               232     2      2                        4
Sharpening machine                  29            6      87     87                              174     2      2                        3
Assortedcarpentrytools               29          40    580    580                              1,160    11    11                       21
Shear machine                        29          60    870    870                              1,740    16    16                       32
Resource materials                   60         110   3,300   3300                             6,600    60    60                      120
Expendable supplies                  29         275   3,988   3998                             7,986    73    73                       145
Total Equipment                                      70,546  35,497                          106,043  1,283   645                    1,928
Total Cost--Institutional Strengthening                                                         480,524                                 8,737
Annual Total                                                                                            5,513 4,991 4,421 4,496 4,570



Annex H
Page 12 of 12
Table 8 Monitoring and Evaluation
(Ksh '000)                         (US $  000)
I. Investment Cost             Unit Unit Cost  1997   1998   1999   2000   2001  Total  1997   1998   1999   2000   2001  Total
Computers (incl software)     30       176  3,520   1,760                         5,280     64     32                            96
Printers                      30       138  2,760   1,760                         4,520     50     32                            82
Furniture                     30         6    120      60                          180       2      1                             3
Printing of monitoring registers              550    550    550    550    550  2,750        10     10      10     10     10      50
Staff training                                500    500    500    500    500  2,500         9      9      9       9      9     45
Baseline survey                              4,125                                4,125     75                                   75
Midterm evaluation survey                                  5,500                  5,500                   100                   100
Post-evaluation survey                                                    5,500  5,500                                  100    100
Data analysis                                2,000         2,000          2,000  6,000      36            36             36    109
Publications/Dissemination                          1,000          1,000  1,000  3,000                            18     18      55
Special Studies                                     3,000  3,000  3,000  3,000 12,000              55     55      55     55    218
Total Investment Cost                                                              51,355                                         934
II. Recurrent Cost
Computer Maintenance                          628    980    980    980    980  4,548       11      18     18     18      18     83
Total Cost                                    14,203  9,610 12,530  6,030 13,530 55,903    258    157    228    110    246  1,016



Annex I
Page I of 2
OUTLINE OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION MANUAL
Chapter 1  Project Description
1.1  Project Objectives
1.2  Description of Components
1.3  Financing and Disbursement Plan
Chapter 2  Project Management and Implementation
2.1   Organizational Structure
2.2  National ECD Implementation Committee
Composition
Terms of Reference
Calendar of Meetings
2.3   Ministry of Education Pre-School Section
Establishment
Job Descriptions
Recruitment Procedures and Timetable
2.4  NACECE
Establishment
Job Descriptions
Recruitment Procedures and Timetable
2.5   District ECD Implementation Committees
Composition
Terms of Reference
2.6   DICECE
Establishment
Job Descriptions
Work Load/Work Routines
2.7  Pre-school Committees
Composition
Terms of Reference
Chapter 3  Guidelines for Collaborating Agencies
3.1  Criteria
3.2 Draft MOU/Contract
3.3  Procedure for Receipt, Utilization, and Accounting of Project Funds
Chapter 4  Training
4.1  Curriculum Development
4.2  Materials Development
4.3  Training of Teachers
4.4  Training of Trainers
4.5  Staff Development
4.6   Other Training
4.7  Annual Training Plan 1996/97-2000/01



Annex I
Page 2 of 2
Chapter 5  Community Mobilization
5.1  National Project Launch Workshop
5.2  District Project Orientation Sessions
5.3  Community Mobilization
5.4  PRA Workshops
5.5  Preparation and Implementation of IEC Strategy
Chapter 6  Health and Nutrition Pilot
6.1  Targeting Criteria and Selection of Districts
6.2  Component Implementation Plan
NGO Model - Activities, Organization and Management, Work
Routines, Supervision and Training, Monitoring, Audits and
Accounts
Hybrid Model - Activities, Organization and Management, Work
Routines, Supervision and Training, Monitoring, Audits and
Accounts
Chapter 7  Community Grants Pilot
7.1  Targeting Criteria and Selection of Districts
7.2  Component Implementation Plan
NGO Model - Activities, Organization and Management, Work
Routines, Supervision and Training, Monitoring, Audits and
Accounts
Hybrid Model - Activities, Organization and Management, Work
Routines, Supervision and Training, Monitoring, Audits and
Accounts
Chapter 8  Pre-School to Primary School Transition Pilot
8.1  Curriculum Development
8.2  Materials Development
8.3  Training Plan
Chapter 9  Monitoring and Evaluation
9.1  Project Monitoring
Objectives
Monitoring Formats
Flow of Information and Feedback Loops
Data Analysis
9.2  Evaluation
Household Survey
Survey of ECD Centers
Client Consultation
9.3  Special Studies
Chapter 10 Audits and Accounts
Chapter 11 Procurement



Annex J
Page I of 8
COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS
Introduction
1.   Investment in ECD is one of the instruments that the Kenyan government has
identified to a achieve the World Education Summit goals of (a) universal primary
education by the year 2000, (b) completion of primary education by at least 80% by the
year 2000. The proposed project will improve the quality of the present ECD centers in
Kenya though six related activities that will cover 1.2 million children by the 5th year of
the project. The first few years of life are crucial in the development of human capital.
The development of the brain is almost fully completed during this period and the
adverse consequences of any nutritional or cognitive developmental deficiencies are
lifelong. Parents are the primary caregivers in early childhood. Improving parenting
skills and providing key information on a child's developmental needs are widely
recognized as effective mechanisms for improving child development outcomes.
Successful Bank projects that have incorporated this approach include the Tamil Nadu
Integrated Nutrition Project which succeeded in reducing severe malnutrition in infants
by 50% and a number of ECD projects in Latin America, iiotably Colombia, Chile and
Mexico. The quality of the ECD programs is another important determinant of its
eventual impact on beneficiaries. Teacher training and support and parental involvement
are important ingredients of high quality programs. Teacher-pupil ratios and learning
materials also affect quality. The project will significantly improve the quality of ECD
services in Kenya.
Project Benefits
2.    The Kenya Poverty Assessment Report (Report No. 13152-KE) shows that
primary school enrollment in Kenya is high by African standards, although still far short
of universal primary education. Enrollment at the primary level attained in 1994 is at
73% (net enrollment), and 80% (gross enrollment). However, completion rates in recent
years had been declining particularly amongst low income households. The most recent
data from Kenya's Welfare Monitoring System survey of 1994 indicates that of those
who enrolled in standard 1 in 1986, only 46% completed standard 8 (in 1993). This
implies a drop-out rate of more than fifty percent. In addition, rates of grade repetition in
primary school are high. The reduction in the level of wastage in the primary school
system in Kenya is expected to be one of the main contributions of the ECD project. The
high drop-out and repetition rates have been due to many school related factors such as
high pupil-teacher ratios, inadequate textbook provision, and poor classroom
environment. These may also be related to poor preparation of the child for schooling.
Available evidence suggests that dropout rates are highest between grades I and 2
probably due to the inability of the child to adapt to the difficult transition from home to
the school environment. Experience in primary schools in Latin American countries, in
the United States and in Turkey indicate that the drop-out and repetition rates can be
reduced by preschool programs which prepare the child for schooling--socially through
social stimulation and physically through better health and nutrition.



Annex J
Page 2 of 8
3.    The expected benefits from ECD project include:
(a)   a reduction in the number of repeaters and drop-outs in the early primary
grades which translates into fiscal savings to the government, and financial
savings to parents who pay for primary school fees, uniform and
transportation;
(b    incremental lifetime earnings for children reached by the program;
(c)   improved nutritionAhealth outcomes for children reached through the
nutrition interventions within the ECD program;
(d)   incremental earnings of the teachers trained under the program because of
higher or more regular contributions from parents;
(e)   incremental earnings of parents (mothers especially) as a result of
releasing their time for economic activities; and
(f)   increase in schooling participation for young girls, who would be released
from usual chores of child-minding;
4.    For purposes of the present analysis, benefit (a) and benefit (b) are calculated and
included in the benefit streams from the project. Benefits (c) to (f) will be described only
in qualitative terms.
5.    Repetition and Drop-out Rates. Table 1 clearly indicates very low retention
rates in the primary school system in Kenya. Roughly 43% of the school entrants in 1986
completed the primary schooling cycle in 1993. This implies that about 57% of all
children entering the system are dropping out.
6.    The economic consequences of this type of wastage at the primary school level
are significant. Firstly, each year of grade repetition implies that an extra year's
expenditures are committed by the government and by parents. Thus, a program that
reduces repetition means savings for the government and for parents. The government
spends about $38 per child per year at the primary level, while households spend about
$17 per child for fees, books, uniforms and harambee contributions. (Kenya Public
Expenditure Review, WB 1994). The annual savings for the government and households
would then total roughly $55 per child per year.
7.    The ECD project is intended to improve the quality of primary school entrants, to
enable them to complete the primary school cycle on time. Thus, each year that a child
that progresses to complete the primary school cycle without repetition saves the
government and parents about $55 per child. An analysis of a student progression flow
was carried out to test the sensitivity of the benefits from lower repetition and drop-out
rates. In order to capture the economic benefits arising from the ECD project, a scenario
"with the project" is compared to a scenario "without the project". The economic benefit
from the project is the difference between the two scenarios.



Annex J
Page 3 of 8
8.    Incremental Lifetime Earnings. Most of the literature on the economic benefits
from ECD programs focused on the incremental earnings for those who were reached by
preschool programs. Longitudinal studies indicate that each $1 invested in the program
had economic returns of $7, based on higher earnings of those who attended the program.
9.    Estimates of the likely incremental earnings as a result of the Kenya ECD project
is based on an analysis of household data (Deolalikar, 1995) from the Welfare Monitoring
Survey of 1994, which compares the likely marginal increase in wages of a person with,
say, preschool experience compared to someone with no education at all. Wage
equations were estimated holding individual characteristics (sex, age, etc.) constant. The
results indicate that an individual who completed preprimary schooling earns about 66%
more at the margin in daily wages compared to those with no education. Likewise the
estimates show that those with some primary school eam 210% more than those with pre-
primary schooling, at the margin. Table 2 shows that the marginal increase in wages
increases consistently as we move from some primary to primary complete and so on.
10.   The results from the household surveys were used in calculating the future
earnings stream, discounted to the present. These benefits accrue at about the 15th year
from start of the project--or at the time that this cohort joins the labor force.
11.   A separate set of benefits not quantified in the present analysis is the incremental
lifetime earnings of those children who would likely complete primary, secondary or
tertiary schooling as a result of the earlier attendance in ECD programs. Table 3 indicates
the likely earnings differentials by different schooling levels attained.
Other Economic Benefits from Early Child Development Interventions (Not
Quantified)
There are other economic benefits expected from the ECD project which are difficult to
quantify, and are therefore not included in the calculation of the project's benefit streams.
These benefits include:
Nutrition/Health Benefits. These benefits would result from the inclusion of
nutrition/health inputs in the ECD program. The economic benefits from nutrition
interventions is defined in terms, also of the incremental lifetime earnings of those whose
nutrition have been improved. Studies indicate better school performnance, higher lifetime
earnings, for those persons who had good early nutrition.
Release of Parents Time for Economic Activities. In urban areas and in plantation
areas in rural regions, a proportion of their time is released for productive work with the
promotion of ECD projects. For example, women who work in tea and coffee plantations
would benefit from leaving preschool children in ECD centers during their working
hours. In many parts of Kenya, the use of traditional child care had been declining
particularly in the urban areas where single mothers are increasing and in rural areas
where families are now more nuclear than extended. The high opportunity cost of time



Annex J
Page 4 of 8
of women of reproductive age in Kenya has been observed from household data (Welfare
Monitoring Survey 1994).
Release of Young Girls for Schooling. The other effect from the investment is the
improved schooling participation of older girls. In many instances, the eldest daughter
handles child care as surrogate to the mother who has joined the labor force. Data from
the Kenya Welfare Monitoring Survey showed that school enrollment for girls fell by
50% when there was a pre-school child in the household.
Sensitivity Analysis and Switching Values
Two crucial assumptions on the benefits streams of the project were subjected to
sensitivity analyses to test how the economic viability of the project changes under
various scenarios. The two most important assumptions relate to (1) the reduction rates
in the drop-out and repetition and (2) incremental lifetime earnings.
Switching values for the repetition and drop-out rates were used to see what happens to
the economic rates of return for various levels of school repetition and drop-out rates.
The basic run presented in Table 4 is based on a conservative assumption of 7 percentage
point improvement in the completion rates in the primary schools--that is, expectation of
improvement from the present level of primary school completion of 43% to 50%. The
sensitivity analysis indicates that the break-even point --or the percentage improvement
in completion rate required to bring the present value of benefits equal to the investment
cost of the project---is only 4 percentage points. This indicates that even small
improvements in the completion rates as a result of the ECD project would already make
the project economically viable. This is due largely to the cost to the government and to
parents of sending children to the primary schools. On the other hand, if the project
increases the completion rates from 7 percentage points to 14 percentage points, the
economic rates of return of the project increases from 32% to about 49 %.
A second simulation tested alternative assumptions on increases in lifetime earnings of
children reached by the project. Since the economy is very difficult to predict, a
simulation using switching values for future earnings was applied. Using a "no
increment" assumption for future earnings, the analysis indicates that the economic rate
of return from the project declines to about 26% from 32% in the 'with incremental
earnings' assumption. This represents a minimal impact on the returns from the project.
The reason is that the most of these returns accrue much later - on the 16th year (or 15
years after children complete preschools).
A further simulation was done to test the incremental lifetime earning effects from the
efficiency gained in primary schooling--that is, better progression into higher levels of
schooling and thus, increase the lifetime earnings. Recall that the base assumptions on
benefits had calculated only the fiscal savings from lower drop-outs and repetition. If the
progression rate in primary schooling is indeed realized, future earnings of those who
completed higher levels of schooling would likely increase by a large factor as seen in
Tables 2 Wage Regression) and Table 3 Mean Wage By Schooling Level. Using the



Annex J
Page 5 of 8
estimates from the wage differentials at various levels of schooling, incremental earnings
from improved progression rate could be calculated. The sensitivity analysis using such
additional project benefits from a progression rate of 14% would result in a substantial
improvement in the economic rate of return to about 42%.
Conclusions
The overall evaluation given in a summary table in Table 4 indicates that the Kenya ECD
project is a highly viable project from the economic point of view. It is estimated that $1
invested in the project would likely yield an equivalent of about $5 returns in present
value terms. The economic rate of return is about 33%, which is higher than many
projects of this nature.
There are second-round and indirect benefits from the project which are difficult to
quantify and are excluded from the present calculations. Nutrition and health benefits
from the nutrition components of the project would provide lifelong impact on
productivity. It is likely that growth monitoring, and nutrition and health education will
improve the children's growth and future earnings potential. The ECD program will also
ease the burden from the elder siblings who do child care tasks--which will therefore
encourage schooling participation especially for girls. For mothers, it is likely that their
time for child care would be released for economically productive activities, and would
thus, increase household incomes. Likewise, benefits can be expected from capacity
building of community organizations, especially the preschool committees. More
preschool teachers would be trained in new skills, and therefore would enhance their
productivity and incomes.



Annex J
Page 6 of 8
Table 1 Kenya: Primary School Retention Rates of School Entrants
in 1984, 1985, 1986 (Percentage)
Entrants in 1984  Entrants in 1985  Entrants in 1986
1984    Male        100.0
Female      100.0
Total       100.0
1985    Male         81.2            100.0
Female       81.0            100.0
Total        81.1            100.0
1986    Male         75.5             85.4           100.0
Female       76.2             84.1           100.0
Total        75.9             84.8           100.0
1987    Male         73.4             80.5            84.6
Female       75.1             79.3            85.1
Total        74.2             79.9            84.8
1988    Male         65.7             75.9            75.8
Female       69.6             77.5            76.9
Total        67.7             76.7            76.3
1989    Male         64.9             71.7            74.3
Female       68.5             74.1            76.1
Total        66.7             72.9            75.1
1990    Male         70.1             66.9            66.3
Female       73.2             69.5            69.5
Total        71.6             68.2            67.8
1991    Male         46.4             75.0            63.9
Female       41.6             75.2            68.8
Total        44.1             75.1            66.3
1992    Male                          52.6            65.4
Female                        48.3            68.9
Total                         50.5            67.1
1993    Male                                          44.5
Female                                        42.2
Total                                         43.4
Source: Ministry of Education and Central Bureau of Statistics (1994), Economic
Survey of Kenya, Nairobi.



Annex J
Page 7 of 8
Table 2 Mean Wage Rates by Level of Schooling in Kenya (1994)
Highest Level of Education    Mean Daily Wage   Standard Deviation  No. of Individuals
(Kenyan Shillings)
No schooling                   89.21              158.80           18,100
Pre primary schooling         107.86              115.18           33,390
Some primary school           176.63             1085.61        1,812,677
Primary school completed      296.16             3215.82          952,876
Some secondary school         224.88              922.69          745,114
Secondary school completed    362.88              741.64          811,658
Certificate                   507.97              992.50          186,182
University                   2164.87             3365.06           84,161
All Individuals               289.93             1769.04        4,644,159
Source of Basic Data: CBS (1994). Welfare Monitoring Survey, Nairobi, Kenya.
Table 3 Project Benefits and Costs 1996 (US$ millions)
Present Value of Flows    Fiscal Impact
Economic Analysis
Taxes         Subsidies
Benefits
Total Benefits from:                            115.22        6.83
. Fiscal Savings from Lower Primary
School Repetition, Household Savings
from Lower Primary School Repetition
* Govt Fiscal Savings from Lower Drop-
Outs in Grades I and 2
* Incremental Income
Costs
20.85                         25.56
Total Project cost:
(Including: Teachers' Training, Community
Capacity Building, Health and Nutrition,
Community Financing, and M&E)
Net Present Value                               94.37
Internal Rate of Return                         32.8%
Overall Risk: Probability that NPV <0         minimal



Annex J
Page 8 of 8
Main Assumptions:
Discount Rate: 12%
Real Exchange Rate Constant 1995 prices
Taxes would be generated from incremental lifetime earnings of beneficiaries.
Nature of Benefits
Government fiscal savings from lower drop-out and repetition rates at the primary level.
Household savings from lower drop-out and repetition rates at the primary level.
Incremental lifetime earnings for beneficiaries.
Not quantified: Incremental lifetime earnings from better nutrition.
Incremental earnings of mothers released for economic activities.
Increased schooling participation of girls.
Switching Values
Reduction in repetition/drop-out would have to be 50% lower for NPV to be negative.
Reducing incremental lifetime earnings to zero will not make NPV negative.



Annex K
Page I of I
KENYA EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ millions)
Year       Quarter        Projected     Cumulative
1997       Quarter 4        0.80           0.80
1998       Quarter 1        0.55           1.35
Quarter 2        0.55           1.90
Quarter 3        0.55           2.45
Quarter 4        0.55           3.00
1999       Quarter I        1.10           4.10
Quarter 2        1.10           5.20
Quarter 3        1.10           6.30
Quarter 4        1.10           7.40
2000       Quarter 1        1.78           9.18
Quarter 2        1.78          10.96
Quarter 3        1.78          12.74
Quarter 4        1.78          14.52
2001       Quarter 1        1.50          16.02
Quarter 2        1.50          17.52
Quarter 3        1.50          19.02
Quarter 4        1.50          20.52
2002       Quarter 1        1.33          21.85
Quarter 2        1.33          23.20
Quarter 3        1.33          24.53
Quarter 4        1.33          25.86
2003       Quarter 1        1.94          27.80



I



IBRD 26150
SUDAN'
To (spools  ,t                             i       
T. K,,p-t.~~N.                                                               O 
Y ''-. ~~KENYA
N-,, \*          T. A:ldds Abob/ o-ANDERA
i \ Ts                                                      rkevst T > _ MANDER                               /
<e                VALLEY                                         EASTERN
o                                                                                                                            NORTH I
z                                                                                                                                      /-,  I  w
z~~~
j        2                                                  /                                        WAJ P    TIR
EASTERN                               >
               ATERN  KAKAMPEDt
\   KISUSAUB Q1'(1,'.1',  >_    Al,K              \                  PIRIN4.-A P4                                                         i
Tok  ~ ~ ~ ~  ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      -            TGoo
i t                               01                                                                            t (/ (0  k:9 t .     ALRJ  {tBU  J  GARISSA  GARSSA
\.     RIFT                       *      NIROEI                      '4  
T. T-rime  | 14NA RIVERIO
,                     f     0,A(sItSC;E          S                                       0   '            "A(   '    ; A
\,              VA             Y  -C O A S T                                                         L4e\u' 1)
4/\// ~      A.11 I,                                                        I           LAM -
0        MAJOR TOWNS                      T  Ao                                                                                    -         rd,
)        NATIONAL CAPITAL                 T.                                                                                               OcAeIan
MAIN ROADS                                                                                        KI. IH         LNDI
NATIONAL AIRPORTS                                                                IA                       /
T. A-uh.             l+                                           ./     <T    
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS                        A                                                       |N                          THIOPIA
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
MOMBASA
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                          ZAIRE
11      50       100      150      20TKIOI,-tete>'%%.                                      KENYA K
I                                            ?,;,NDA                             NI J;hiio
1150                 1OAIe               O0MWTNZANA
The b-unda,les, cobrsdenomma,hons and any other iofor-htron            5T0 Es                                                                Tk IANIcAM A:
shown   on th,s map an "ot         i          mport of The World Bonk                                D  E   l
Groupl  ,y  ,dg,,e  on th e    ii slatof any territory or oay                                                                                    N      -
endorsement or occepto-oe of soch boundoeres.                                                                                                A_
AUGUST 1994









IMAGING
Report Nn:           15426   KE
Type:      SAR



