Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND Credit NUMBER N015 KE
Interim Fund
Development Credit Agreement
(Early Childhood Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund established 
with funds contributed by certain members of International 
Development Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
of the Board of Governors of International Development Association
Dated May 7, 1997
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N015 KE
INTERIM FUND
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 7, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF KENYA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) as administrator (the 
Administrator) of the interim trust fund (Interim Fund) established with funds 
contributed by certain members of the Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
(the Interim Fund Resolution) of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on 
June 26, 1996.
WHEREAS (A) by the Interim Fund Resolution, the Interim Fund has been 
established, constituted of the funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association and administered by the Association acting as Administrator of the Interim 
Fund, in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
(B)
the Association Administrator has received a letter of policy intent, 
dated May 23, 1996 from the Borrower, describing a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to promote and strengthen early child development in Kenya  
(hereinafter referred to as "the Program"), and declared its commitment to the 
execution of the Program;  
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Administrator Association to assist in the financing of the Project through the 
Page  2
provision of resources from the Interim Fund, and the Administrator has determined 
that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund 
Resolution;
(D)
the Borrower intends to conclude agreements with NGOs (as hereinafter 
defined) and other donors in view of securing additional financing in an amount 
equivalent to about $2,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and 
conditions to be set forth in such agreements with such NGOs and other donors; and
WHEREAS the Administrator Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of 
the foregoing, to extend the Interim Fund Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The term "Association," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Interim Fund 
referred to in the Preamble to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement;
(b)
The terms "Development Credit Agreement," Credit" and "Credit Account," 
wherever used in the General Conditions, are amended to read "Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement," "Interim Fund Credit" and "Interim Fund Credit Account," 
respectively;
(c)
A new paragraph, numbered 15, is added to Section 2.01 to read as 
follows:
"15.
'Participating Country' means any country that meets the 
requirements set 
forth in Section 5 (e) of Resolution No. IDA 184 of the 
Board of Governors of the 
Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, as 
determined by the Administrator as of the date on 
which the Interim Fund Credit was 
approved pursuant to Section 5 (c) of said Resolution; and 
'Participating Countries' 
means, collectively, all such countries";
(d)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(e)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Administrator Association and the Borrower shall otherwise 
agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country 
which is not a member of the Bank Participating 
Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons 
or entities, or for 
any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the 
Administrator 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations." 
(f)
In Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the term 
“Association” shall also mean the International Development Association acting in its 
own capacity.
(g)
Section 6.03 is modified to read as follows: “Section 6.03.  Cancellation 
by the Association.  If (a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Interim Fund Credit Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount of 
the Interim Fund Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, 
the Administrator determines, after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of 
the Interim Fund Credit will not be required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or (c) at any time the 
Administrator determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the 
Page  3
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged 
in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Interim Fund Credit 
during the procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Administrator to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Interim Fund Credit, or (d) at any time, the Administrator determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund 
Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Interim 
Fund Development Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of 
the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of 
the Interim Fund Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit Account, 
the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower 
to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such 
amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall be cancelled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Co-financing Agreements” means the agreements referred to in paragraph 
(C) of the Preamble; 
(b)
“DECDIC” means the District ECD Implementation Committee referred to in 
paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(c)
“DICECE” means District Center for Early Childhood Education of a 
District; 
(d)
“District” means an administrative subdivision of the Borrower’s 
territory; “ECD” means early child development; 
(e)
“Eligible ECD Center” means an ECD Center which satisfies the eligibility 
criteria specified in the Project Implementation Manual in respect of Grants; 
(f)
“Eligible ECD Center Expenditures” means expenditures of an Eligible ECD 
Center, which are determined to be eligible for financing under a Grant in terms of 
criteria specified in the Project Implementation Manual;
(g)
“fiscal year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year; 
(h)
“Grant” means a grant under Part D.1 of the Project;
(i)
 “IEC” means information, education and communication; 
(j)
“Kenya Shilling” and “Ksh”  mean the unit of currency of the Borrower; 
(k)
“Memorandum of Understanding” means the Memorandum of Understanding 
referred to in Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes any schedules to the Memorandum of Understanding; 
(l)
“MOEMoE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education; 
(m)
“NACECE” means the National Center for Early Childhood Education of 
MOEMoE; 
(n)
“NECDIC” means the National ECD Implementation Committee referred to in 
paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(o)
“NGO” means nongovernmental organization;
(p)
"Project Account" means the project account referred to in Section 3.04 
of this Agreement;
(q)
“Project Coordinator” means the Project Coordinator referred to in 
Page  4
paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(r)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the Project Implementation Manual, 
dated July 3, 1996, prepared by the Borrower and submitted to the Administrator 
Association, giving details of all procurement and disbursement arrangements, 
performance indicators and other administrative, financial and organizational 
arrangements, as well as the criteria for the identification of Selected Districts, 
Selected NGOs and Eligible ECD Centers, as agreed with the Administrator Association 
for purposes of  the Project; 
(s)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Administrator Association to the Borrower pursuant to a letter of 
agreement, dated July 9, 1996, between the Borrower and the Administrator Association;
(t)
“PPE” means the Pre-Primary Education Section of MOEMoE;
(u)
“Selected District” means a District selected in accordance with criteria 
set forth in the Project Implementation Manual and in which the Project, or any Part 
thereof, is to be implemented;
(v)
“Selected NGO” means any NGO selected in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 3.01 (b) and (c) of this Agreement to implement any Part of the Project; 
and
(w)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Interim Fund Credit
Section 2.01.  The Administrator Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to nineteen million three 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 19,300,000).
Section 2.02.  (a)  The amount of the Interim Fund Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for: (i) expenditures made (or, if the Administrator Association shall 
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the 
Administrator Association shall so agree, to be paid) on account of withdrawals made 
for the benefit of an Eligible ECD Center under a Grant to meet the reasonable cost of 
Eligible ECD Center Expenditures, and in respect of which the withdrawal from the 
Interim Fund Credit Account is requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator Association, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Administrator Association shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and pay to 
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation 
Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges 
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation 
Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such later date as the 
Administrator Association shall establish. The Administrator Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04.  (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit not withdrawn from time to 
Page  5
time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to 
exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Interim Fund Credit Account or cancelled; 
and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or 
at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph 
(a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next 
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06.  Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07.  (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit in semiannual installments 
payable on each February 1 and August 1, commencing August 1, 2007 and ending February 
1, 2037. Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 1, 2017 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Administrator Association may, subsequent to the review and approval 
thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by 
them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the 
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Interim 
Fund Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Administrator 
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Administrator Association on the principal amount of the Interim 
Fund Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Administrator Association, such revision shall not change the grant 
element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Administrator Association may, if so requested by the 
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of 
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08.  The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall, 
subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section:
(i)
carry out the Project through MOEMoE with due diligence and 
efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate technical, financial and 
Page  6
administrative practices; 
and 
(ii)
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other 
resources required for such Parts of the Project.
(b)
Without prejudice to the generality of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower may have Parts C and D of the Project implemented in Selected Districts by 
one or more selected NGOs, according to criteria for the selection of the appropriate 
mode of implementation, which shall be acceptable to the Administrator Association and 
specified in the Project Implementation Manual.
(c)
Where one or more NGOs have been selected to implement Part C or D of the 
Project in Selected Districts, the Borrower shall cause such Selected NGOs to carry 
out such Part of the Project, with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity 
with appropriate technical, financial and administrative practices, shall take or 
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable such Selected NGOs to carry 
out the Project, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with the carrying out of the Project by such Selected NGOs.
(d)
Where an NGO has been selected to implement Part C or D of the Project in 
a Selected District, the Borrower shall conclude a memorandum of understanding 
(hereinafter called Memorandum of Understanding) with such Selected NGO for the 
implementation of such Part of the Project, whereby the Borrower shall make available 
to such Selected NGO the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to such Part of 
the Project for such Selected District on a grant basis and on such other terms and 
conditions as shall be acceptable to the Administrator Association.
(e)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Memorandum of 
Understanding in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Administrator Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Interim Fund Credit, 
and, except as the Administrator Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive such Memorandum of Understanding or any provision 
thereof.
(f)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and, except as the Borrower and the Administrator Association shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall carry out the Project and, where applicable, shall cause Selected 
NGOs to carry out Parts C and D of the Project, all in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02.  Except as the Administrator Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03.  For the purposes of Part D.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall 
make available the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to such Part of the 
Project, or cause such proceeds to be made available, to Eligible ECD Centers on a 
grant basis, and on such other terms and conditions as shall be acceptable to the 
Administrator Association and specified in the Project Implementation Manual, which 
shall include the following: 
(a)
except as the Administrator Association may otherwise agree, Grants shall 
not exceed Kshs 125,000 in each case, and shall be provided for the benefit of 
Eligible ECD Centers, and in accordance of the terms of a letter of agreement to be 
signed between the Borrower or a Selected NGO, as the case may be, on the one hand, 
and a representative of the Eligible ECD Center, on the other;
(b)
except as the Administrator Association may otherwise agree, grants shall 
be provided, in respect of each Eligible ECD Center, through an ECD fund to be held in 
a protected account located in an approved bank, where applicable, and used solely to 
finance Eligible ECD Center Expenditures; and
(c) 
the Borrower or, as the case may be, the selected NGO shall make suitable 
arrangements to ensure that: 
(i)
Grants shall not be used to finance taxes levied on or in respect 
Page  7
of Eligible 
ECD Center Expenditures, or any part thereof; and 
(ii)
Eligible ECD Centers shall furnish all information as may be 
reasonably 
required regarding the administration, operations and 
financial conditions of 
such Eligible ECD Centers.
Section 3.04.  (a)  Without limitation upon its obligations under Section 3.01 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall make appropriate budgetary provisions on behalf 
of MOEMoE to finance its counterpart contribution to the cost of the Project in 
accordance with the following schedule:
Fiscal year following Effective Date
Amount expressed in dollars
First fiscal year
  200,000
Second fiscal year
1,000,000
Third fiscal year
1,000,000
Fourth fiscal year
1,500,000
Fifth fiscal year
1,500,000
Section 3.05.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator 
Association, and furnish to the Administrator Association not later than six (6) 
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Borrower and the Administrator Association, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Administrator Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a)  The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Administrator Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator Association, as soon as available, 
but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each 
such year, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Administrator 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator Association such other information 
concerning 
said records, accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Interim 
Fund Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
Page  8
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator 
Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year 
in which the last withdrawal 
from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator Association's representatives to examine 
such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02.  (a)  The Borrower shall cause Selected NGOs to maintain records 
and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the 
operations and financial conditions of such Selected NGOs.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause Selected NGOs to:
(i)
have their records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors 
acceptable to the Administrator Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Borrower and the Administrator Association as soon 
as 
available, but in any case not later than six months after 
the end of each 
such year, (A) certified copies of their 
financial statements for such year as 
so audited, and (B) the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Administrator Association shall have reasonably 
requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Borrower and the Administrator Association such 
other 
information concerning such records, accounts, financial 
statements and the 
audit thereof as the Administrator Association shall 
from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01.  The Borrower shall cause Selected NGOs:
(a)
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other 
provision satisfactory to the Administrator Association for, insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice;
(b)
to carry on their operations and conduct their affairs in accordance with 
sound technical, administrative and financial practices, under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; 
and
(c)
at all times to operate and to maintain their equipment and other 
property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and 
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and 
administrative practices.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association and the Administrator
Page  9
Section 6.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that:
(a)
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out;
(b)
the Co-financing Agreements shall have failed to become effective by June 
30, 1998, or such later date as the Administrator Association may agree; provided, 
however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes that adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from 
other sources;
(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to 
withdraw the proceeds of any loan or grant made to the 
Borrower for the 
financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the Co-financing Agreements.
(ii)
Sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the 
Administrator Association that: (A) 
such suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under such 
agreement; and (B)  adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination; 
Designation of Administrator
Section 7.01.  The following events are specified as additional conditions to 
the effectiveness of the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has made appropriate budgetary provisions for the first 
fiscal year following the Effective Date in accordance with Section 3.04 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
the Borrower has established an adequate financial management and 
accounting system for the Project and appointed auditors to audit the accounts in 
accordance with Section 4.01 of this Agreement and Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; and
(c)
at least two Selected NGOs have been selected in accordance with criteria 
specified in the Project Implementation Manual, and a Memorandum of Understanding has 
been executed on behalf of the Borrower and each such Selected NGO.
Section 7.02.  The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Administrator Association, namely, that each 
executed Memorandum of Understanding referred to in paragraph (c) of Section 7.01 of 
this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Selected 
NGO, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the Selected NGO in 
accordanceacordance with its terms.
Section 7.03.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04.  In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association 
decide to terminate the functions of the Association as Administrator of the Interim 
Fund pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the 
Association in accordance with the Interim Fund Resolution and such decision of said 
Executive Directors, as of a date to be notified by the Administrator to the Borrower.
Page  10
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O.P.O Box 30007
Nairobi
Kenya
Cable address:
Telex:
FINANCE
22921
Nairobi
MINFIN-KE
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By /s/ Benjamin Kipkorir
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator 
of the interim trust fund established with funds 
contributed by certain members of International 
Development Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 
184 of the Board of Governors of International 
Development Association
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Page  11
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Interim Fund 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category:
Amount of the
Interim Fund Credit
   % of
   Allocated
Expenditures
(Expressed in
   to be
Category
SDR Equivalent)
 
  Financed
1.
Goods
6,600,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 
80% of local
expenditures
2.
Training 4,800,000 
100%
3.
Grants
2,600,000 
100% of amounts
disbursed by Borrower 
or Selected NGO
4.
Consultants’
1,400,000 100% 
services and 
studies 
5.
Operating costs 
2,300,000 
90% for
expenditures 
incurred prior to
December, 31, 1999,
and 60% thereafter
6.
Refunding of
  700,000
Amounts due
Project
pursuant to
Preparation
Section 2.02 (c)
Advance
of this Agreement
7.
Unallocated
 
  900,000
_________
Total
19,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c)
the term "operating costs" means the incremental operating costs incurred 
by MOEMoE or Selected NGOs under the Project on account of: (i) local contractual 
staff salaries and allowances, and travel costs, (ii) maintenance and operation of 
vehicles and equipment, and related insurance costs, and (iii) office rent, supplies 
and utilities. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
Page  12
4.
The Administrator Association may require withdrawals from the Interim Fund 
Credit Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures 
for goods and consultants' services (firms) under contracts not exceeding $100,000 
equivalent, consultants' services (individuals) under contracts not exceeding $50,000 
equivalent, overseas training under contracts not exceeding $10,000 equivalent, 
Grants, local training and operating costs, under such terms and conditions as the 
Administrator Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve child development and educability 
in poor households in Selected Districts of Kenya through improved cognitive and 
psycho-social development, improved child health and nutrition, increased school 
enrollment at the appropriate age, and reduction in drop-out and repetition rates in 
lower primary school.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator Association may agree upon from time to 
time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Improved Teacher Performance 
1.
Provision of a two-year training course or, as the case may be, a five-week 
orientation course, for untrained teachers. 
2.
Carrying out of a training program for trainers, including training in adult 
learning and participatory methods skills. 
3.
Provision of short specialized courses to serve the needs of refresher training 
and help trained teachers upgrade their skills.
Part B:
Community Capacity Building and Resource Mobilization 
1.
Carrying out of orientation sessions and development of IEC materials, including 
posters, flash cards, charts, radio programs and other mass media campaign materials, 
to promote and strengthen ECD. 
2.
Organization of community participatory development workshops to build 
management capacity of ECD Center committees. 
3.
Provision of parenting education, through workshops, demonstrations and 
seminars, to caregivers, including mothers, grandmothers and childminders employed to 
provide care for very young children.
Part C:
Health and Nutrition Pilot 
1.
Testing of a replicable model emphasizing prevention and promotion to optimize 
health and nutrition standards of ECD Center children at the community level. 
2.
Provision of parental education to promote improved health behavior and child 
care in the home and environmental health.
Part D:
Community Grants Pilot 
1.
Provision of grants to community or parent-owned ECD Centers in low-income areas 
to provide such schools with a steady income stream to meet monthly recurrent costs. 
2. 
Provision of advisory services in self-management, accounting, fund-raising, 
planning and budgeting, under Part B.2 of the Project.
Part E:
Preschool to Primary School Transition
Harmonization of curriculum and teaching methods in lower primary schools with 
Page  13
those of ECD Centers, thereby facilitating interaction between ECD Centers and lower 
primary classes.
Part F:
Monitoring and Evaluation 
1.
Monitoring of input utilization and process outcomes at center level by means of 
child cards, center registers and wallcharts, and a survey of ECD centers, and supply 
of certain disaggregated information and profiles from DICECEs to each of the district 
centers for effective planning purposes. 
2.
Evaluation of the impact of the Project and of each of its components on child 
outcomes using household- and child-specific sample survey data. 
3.
Carrying out of special studies to address policy development issues, deal with 
operational research issues and evaluate specific issues, such as training and 
supervision, which are not covered by regular monitoring and evaluation activities.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001. 
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A:
General
Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule, Ggoods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B: 
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(c)
 Notification and Advertising 
 
An invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines."
Part C: 
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $4,100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
Page  14
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
National Shopping
Goods required under Part D.1 of the Project estimated to cost less than $5,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 
equivalent, and other goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $80,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.  
4.
Procurement from UN Agencies
(a)
Goods referred to in paragraph 2 of this Part may be procured from the 
Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO) in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Pharmaceuticals, for a total amount not exceeding $1,200,000, may be 
procured through United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) or United Nations Children’s 
Fund Supply Division Procurement and Assembly CenterCentre (UNIPAC), in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
Part D: 
Review by the Administrator Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Administrator Association and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, as well as the first three contracts for goods to be financed under 
the Project, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II. 
Employment of Consultants 
1.
Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule, Cconsultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World 
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in 
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such 
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services 
issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the 
Administrator Association.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been 
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Administrator Association 
shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Administrator Association review or approval 
Page  15
of budgets, shortlists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, 
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment 
of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) 
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Administrator Association review 
shall not apply to: (i) the terms of reference for such contracts, (ii) single-source 
selection of consulting firms, (iii) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably 
determined by the Administrator Association, (iv) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or 
above, or (v) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants 
raising the contract val
ue to $50,000 equivalent or above. 
Section III.
Eligibility Restrictions 
1.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.6 of the Guidelines, the proceeds 
of the Interim Fund Credit may only be withdrawn on account of expenditures for goods 
provided by nationals of, and produced in or supplied from, Participating Countries; 
consequently, nationals of countries that are not Participating Countries and bidders 
offering goods from such countries shall be disqualified from bidding for such 
contracts, and the bidding documents shall so specify. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.02 of the Consultant Guidelines, 
only consultants from Participating Countries shall be eligible to provide services 
financed out the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall maintain:
 
(a)
a National ECD Implementation Committee (NECDIC), to be chaired by the 
Permanent Secretary, MOEMoE, and whose functions, composition and terms of reference 
shall be acceptable to the Administrator Association, to be responsible for providing 
overall policy and strategic guidance for the Project and, in particular, to review 
and approve proposed work plans and budgets, review the progress of the Project and 
address policy issues arising in the course of the implementation of the Project; and
 (b) 
an intersectoral District ECD Implementation Committee (DECDIC), to be 
chaired by the District Education Officer in each Selected District, to be responsible 
for overall coordination of the activities of the Project in the Selected District. 
2.
The Borrower shall designate:
 
(a) 
the Permanent Secretary, MOEMoE, to have overall responsibility for the 
management and coordination of the Project; and
(b) 
a suitably qualified and experienced official to be head of PPE and 
Project Coordinator and, as such, to be responsible for the day-to-day management of 
the Project, including coordination of procurement, disbursement and accounting 
activities, preparation of annual work plans and budgets, progress reports, 
supervision of the recruitment and performance of consultants, and to act as secretary 
of NECDIC. 
3.
The Borrower shall take appropriate steps to address the staffing requirements 
of NACECE, DICECEs and PPE and, to this end, shall proceed to fill, and thereafter to 
keep filled at all times, the positions identified in the Project Implementation 
Manual. 
4.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with procedures set out 
in the Project Implementation Manual and, except as the Administrator Association 
shall otherwise agree, shall not amend, abrogate or waive any provision thereof, if 
such amendment, abrogation or waiver may, in the opinion of the Administrator 
Association, materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
5.
The Borrower shall:
Page  16
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with performance indicators referred to in 
the Project Implementation Manual, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof;
(b) 
not later than February 28 of each year, undertake, in conjunction with 
the Administrator Association and Selected NGOs, a joint annual review of the Project 
(or, in the case of the annual review to be undertaken not later than February 28, 
1999, a midterm review), during which they shall exchange views generally on all 
matters relating to the progress of the Project and the performance by the Borrower of 
its respective obligations under this Agreement, including: 
(i)
the progress achieved by the Borrower in the implementation of the 
Project, 
having regard to the performance indicators referred to in 
paragraph and 5 (a) 
of this Schedule;
 
(ii)
a review of the proposed work plans and budget for the forthcoming 
fiscal year; 
and 
(iii)  in the case of the midterm review, proposals for such strategic 
adjustments to 
the Project as may be deemed necessary or appropriate 
in furtherance of the 
objectives of the Project;
(c)
not later than one month prior to each annual review, furnish to the 
Administrator Association, for its comments, a report, in such detail as the 
Administrator Association shall reasonably request, on the progress and status of the 
Project and giving details, in particular, of the various matters to be discussed at 
such review; and
(d)
following each annual review, undertake to act promptly and diligently in 
order to take, or cause Selected NGOs to take, any corrective action deemed necessary 
to remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project or to implement, 
or cause Selected NGOs to implement, such other measures as may have been agreed upon 
between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project.
6.
The Borrower shall submit to the Administrator Association, for its review or 
approval, as the case may be:
(a)
not later than January 31 of each year, proposed annual work plans and 
budget for the forthcoming fiscal year, giving details of proposed budgetary 
allocations and disbursement estimates, proposed procurement and training activities 
and such other particulars as the Administrator Association may require, including, 
where applicable, an evaluation of the results of the training program for the current 
fiscal year;
(b)
semiannual progress reports on the status of the Project to be submitted 
not later than January 31 and July 31 of each year, including semiannual procurement 
reports, giving details of: 
(i)
revised cost estimates for individual contracts and for the 
Project, including 
best estimates of allowances for price contingencies; 
(ii)
revised timing of procurement actions, including 
advertisingadvertizing, 
bidding, contract award and completion 
time for individual contracts;
(iii)
status of compliance with aggregate limits prescribed for specific 
procurement procedures; 
and
(c)
reports, as needed, on the award of contracts under the Project.
7.
For the purposes of Part F of the Project, the Borrower shall establish: (a) a 
Monitoring and Evaluation Working Group, to be chaired by the Head of Monitoring and 
Evaluation of MOEMoE, and comprising representatives of concerned agencies and 
entities, to oversee monitoring and evaluation activities at the national level; and 
Page  17
(b) a steering committee, to be chaired by the District Education Officer or Municipal 
Education Officer, as the case may be, in each Selected District, and comprising 
representatives of concerned agencies and entities, to oversee monitoring and 
evaluation activities at the district level.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project, as well as amounts 
paid or to be paid under Grants, to be financed out of the proceeds of the Interim 
Fund Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories, and in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit Account and deposited in the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Administrator Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall 
be limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Administrator Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of SDR 4,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator Association has received evidence satisfactory to it 
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made 
as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which 
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Administrator Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Administrator Association requests for deposits into 
the Special Account at 
such intervals as the Administrator 
Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Administrator Association the documents and other 
evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for 
the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such 
request, the Administrator 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the 
Interim Fund Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be 
withdrawn by the Administrator Association from the Interim 
Fund Credit 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other 
evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Administrator Association shall reasonably request, furnish 
Page  18
to the Administrator Association such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator Association shall have determined that 
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Interim Fund 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator 
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator 
Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator Association shall have notified the 
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered 
into by the Administrator Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Administrator Association shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Administrator Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator Association shall have determined at any time that 
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an 
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Administrator Association, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator Association: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Administrator Association may request; or (B) deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Administrator Association shall so request, refund to 
the Administrator Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Administrator Association 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator Association into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator Association shall have determined at any time that 
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator Association, refund to the Administrator Association such outstanding 
amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator Association, refund to 
the Administrator Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the 
Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Interim Fund Credit Account 
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
Page  19
