Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13888-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
ASSAM RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
APRIL 26, 1995
Agriculture and Water Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
US$ 1 = Rupees (Rs) 31.4
(December 1994)
FISCAL YEAR
GOI, State - April 1 to March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Assam Agro-Industries Development Corporation
Assam Council for Technology, Science and Environment
Agricultural Development Project
Agricultural Extension Officer
Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Department
Artificial Insemination
Agricultural Production Commissioner
Assam State Agricultural University
Assam Seed Corporation
Assam State Electricity Board
Agricultural Strategy Paper
Assam State Seed Certification Agency
Country Assistance Strategy
Central Ground Water Board
Department of Agriculture
District Rural Development Agency
Deep Tube Wells
Economic Rate of Return
Fish Farmers Development Agency
Field Management Committee
Farming Systems Research
Field Trial Station
Gross Domestic Product
Government of Assam
Government of India
Government of Tamil Nadu
Gaon Panchayat Samabay Samathi
High Yielding Varieties
Indian Council for Agricultural Research
International Competitive Bidding
Intensive Cattle Development Project
Irrigation Department
Integrated Rural Development Project
Million
Monitoring and Evaluation
Ministry of Agriculture
Memorandum of Understanding



MTR         Mid-Term Review
NAEP        National Agricultural Extension Project
NCB         National Competitive Bidding
NEC         North East Council
NGO         Non Government Organization
NPW         Net Present Worth
PCC         Project Coordination Committee
PD          Project Director
PGC         Project Guidance Committee
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
PM          Policy Matrix
PWD         Public Works Department
RGVN        Rashtriya Grameen Vikas Nidhi
RIASP       Rural Infrastructure and Agricultural Services Project
Rs          Rupees
SMS         Subject Matter specialist
SOE         Statement of Expenditure
STATFED     Assam State Cooperative Marketing and Consumers' Federation
Limited
STW         Shallow Tube Well
T&V         Training and Visit
VIA         Village Livestock Agencies
VLEW        Village Level Extension Worker
WUA         Water Users Association
GLOSSARY
KHARIF      Monsoon season
RABI        Drier, winter season
SALI        Post winter season
Beel        Large body of water
The report is based on the findings of IBRD/IDA Appraisal mission which
visited the project area October/November 1994. The mission consisted of
Messrs. G. Mukami (Task manager), E. Betubiza, A. Venkataraman, K.
Venkataraman, C. Nawathe, R. Zweig (Bank); K. Deveraj, G. Kaushik, K.
Palanisami (Consultants). Assistance was also provided by Peer Reviewers:
Messrs. M. Macklin, S. Oliver and W. Price. The report is endorsed by Mr. H.
Vergin, Director, SA2 and Mr. S. Barghouti, Division Chief, SA2AW.






INDIA
ASSAM RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Table of Contents
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I.    BACKGROUND ...  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  1
The Economy and Agriculture of India   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
Major Issues Affecting Agricultural Performance  . . . . . . . . . .    2
The GOI's Agricultural Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
The State of Assam   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
Agriculture in Assam: Constraints and Potential  . . . . . . . . . .    3
The Bank's Approach to Agriculture in Assam . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
World Bank Support   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
Lessons from Previous Bank Involvement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
Rationale for Bank Involvement.                                                         6
II.   THE   PROJECT   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  7
Project Origin and Concept   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
Project Objectives   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
Project Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
Detailed Features of Investment Proposals  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
Procurement  .......              ..   ..   ..   ...    ..   ..   ..   ..   ...      .    18
Retroactive Financing and Special Account  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
Accounts and Audit   ....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    21
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ....  .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    22
Project Management Approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
Beneficiary and NGO Participation ....  .                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    23
Project Organization and Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   24
Planning Procedure   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27
Budgeting  .......              ...     ..   ...     ..  ...    ..    ...     ..   .   .    27
Monitoring and Evaluation ....  .              .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    28
Reporting, Mid-Term Review, and Project Implementation Report  . . .   28
Project Supervision .....  .              ..  .  ..  .   ..  .  ..  .  ..  .   .  .   .    29
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .29
Economic Analysis .31
Environmental Impact .33
Impact on Women . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   33
Cost Recovery .34
Sustainability .35
Risks .35
V.    AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ...  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   36



LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1:    General Features of Assam
Annex 2:    GOA Policy Letter and Matrix
Annex 3:    Rural Roads
Attachment 1--Terms of Reference for Consultants for Contract
Supervision
Attachment 2--Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance for
Planning and Detailed Engineering
Attachment 3--Criteria for Ranking Rural Roads
Annex 4:    Studies
Attachment 1--Terms of Reference for Soils and Water Management Study
Attachment 2--Terms of Reference for Marketing of High-Value Crops
Study
Annex 5:    Cost Tables
Table 1--Components Project Cost Summary
Table 2--Project Components by Year--Base Costs
Table 3--Project Components by Year--Total including Contingencies
Table 4--Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
Table 5--Expenditure Accounts by Components--Base Costs
Table 6--Expenditure Accounts by Components--Totals including
Contingencies
Detailed Cost Tables (8)
Annex 6:    Disbursement Schedule
Annex 7:    Proiect ManaQement
Attachment 1--GOA Administrative Arrangement
Attachment 2--Proposed Organization Chart
Anniex 8:    Beneficiary and NGO Participation
Attachment 1--Indicative List of Activities/Issues to be Addressed
in Consultative Planning
Attachment 2--List of Active NGOs in Assam
Attachment 3--Proposed Areas Where NGOs Could Assist in Project
Implementation
Attachment 4--Selection Criteria for NGOs Participating in the
Project
Annex 9:    Irriaation Desicqn and Implementation
Attachment 1--Simplified Procedures/Guidelines for Undertaking Rapid
Feasibility Studies Appropriate for the Development of Shallow Tube
Wells
Attachment 2--Selection Criteria and Guidelines for Rehabilitation
of Deep Tube Wells (DTWs) and River Pumping Schemes (RPS)
Attachment 3--Handing-Over Procedures for Rehabilitated DTWs and
RPSs to Water Users Associations
Attachment 4--Selection Criteria and Guidelines for Establishing
Pilot Tank Irrigation Systems



Attachment 5--Frameworks, Policies, Strategies, and Approaches for
the Farmer Participation Program
Annex 10:   Job Description for Women's Development Officer
Annex 11:   Economic and Financial Analysis
Annex 12:   Development Blocks Covered by the Project
Annex 13:   Implementation Arrangements for Individual Components
Annex 14:   Implementation Plan
Annex 15:   Schedule of Project Supervision
Annex 16:   Monitorable Indicators of Project Objectives
Annex 17:   Procedures and Guidelines for Resettlement and Rehabilitation
Annex 18:   Environmental Analysis
Annex 19:   Documents Available in Project File






ASSAM-RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                      India, Acting by its President
Executing Agency:              Government of Assam (GOA) through the
Departments of Agriculture, Public Works,
Fisheries, Irrigation, Animal Husbandry and
Veterinary, and Assam State Agricultural
University.
Amount:                         IDA Credit of SDR 81.0 million (US$126.0 million
equivalent).
Terms:                         Standard with 35 years maturity.
On-lending Terms:              Government of India (GOI) would make the
proceeds of the credit available to GOA under
its prevailing terms and conditions. GOI would
assume the foreign exchange risk.
Poverty Categorv:              Program of Targeted Interventions.  The project
aims to benefit the poorest section of the rural
population in the State of Assam by offering
better income enhancement opportunities to
poorer farmers, and particularly to women, and
to improve their nutritional status. The
project contains specific mechanisms for
targeting these groups. The project also
incorporates specific measures to ensure
beneficiaries' participation in the selection of
location and implementation of activities
supported under the project.
Project Obiectives:            The primary objectives of the project would be
to (a) improve equity and alleviate poverty by
offering better opportunities for poorer farmers
and women to contribute to agricultural growth
and income generation; (b) improve the nutrition
of the rural poor; (c) accelerate agricultural
growth through improved use of resources,
relieving infrastructural and technical
constraints, and providing an enabling
environment to facilitate the growth of private
sector investments; (d) encourage sustainability
of resource use and quality of the environment;
and (e) improve the GOA's long-term capacity for
strategic agricultural planning. An attempt
would be made to balance its policy reform
objectives with poverty alleviation goals
through careful targeting of beneficiaries.



-ll-
Proiect DescriDtion:           The project is intended to benefit the poorest
segments of the rural population. To achieve
this objective, the project would support: (a)
the Department of Agriculture's work program,
including the extension services for
horticulture, fisheries, and livestock to poor
rural communities aimed at increasing their
production; (b) institutional development
(technology generation and extension, seed
multiplication and land administration, and
planning and coordination); and (c) rural
infrastructure (small scale irrigation and rural
roads). Project components would also include a
number of studies considered necessary for
improving the use of natural resources (soil and
water management) and the marketing of highly
perishable horticultural products. The proposed
project would be implemented in eight years
starting in 1995/96 and would include a package
of state-specific policy reforms agreed to by
the Bank and formally approved by the GOA.
Risks:                         The project faces four major risks:
Fundinct. Poor budgetary support could slow down
implementation. To minimize the risk, the GOA
would submit an annual budget and commit itself
to improve cost recovery and establish adequate
financial control measures that would be
monitored during project implementation.
Funding needed for O&M would be the
responsibility of the beneficiaries. Pace of
implementation, quality of construction, and
delivery of services would be monitored by local
NGOs and reported to concerned agencies every
six months.
Policy Reform and Commitment. Timely and
effective implementation and adherence by the
GOA to the agreed policy reforms are crucial to
the success of the project. To minimize the
risk, tangible proof of readiness to implement
the reforms has already been demonstrated in the
preparation of the state agricultural strategy
paper and the steps already taken to implement
the items described in the policy matrix.
Implementation of policy reforms would be
reflected in the GOA's annual work plans and
budgets for Bank review. There would be close
Bank supervision to ensure that dated covenants
associated with the reforms are met. Despite
the built-in safeguard*, however, implementation



-iii-
of policy reform could be delayed or even
modified due to political events. General
elections will be held in 1996, and the
political scenario in the country is changing
fast. Announcements of populistic measures
involving hand-outs from public funds are
increasing markedly. It would be unrealistic to
expect that Assam would not be influenced by
this political trend.
Institutional Capacity. The success of the
project depends on active participation of local
and national NGOs. There is the risk that such
participation may be slow to materialize, and
government bureaucracy may delay the transfer of
new assets to the farming communities. Also,
institutional weakness could pose risks for
project implementation. Quality of works
(construction and maintenance of rural roads)
could suffer from inadequate staffing,
supervision, and standard enforcement. To
enhance quality of construction, the project
would provide technical assistance to train and
motivate staff.
Securit . The security situation in Assam may
delay field visits, implementation, and timely
supervision and monitoring. Project activities
and investment programs would be restricted to
areas where security problems are minimal.
Active involvement of beneficiaries (FMCs, WUA,
etc) in the decision-making process and their
ownership of the project should reduce the
security risk.
With GOA's commitment and demonstrated support,
and with built-in safeguards for sustaining
operations, the project has a chance of
succeeding.



- LV-
Estimated Prolect Costs
COMPONENTS                      Local      Foreign      Total
-----(US$ M).-----------
POVERTY ALLEVIATION             22.7         1.4          24.1
Horticulture                   2.5         0.2           2.7
Fisheries                      8.2         0.7           8.9
Livestock Development         12.0         0.5          12.5
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT       21.7         1.3          23.0
Technology Generation          2.6         0.2           2.8
Education and Training         2.4         0.1           2.5
Extension Service             10.4         0.4          10.8
Seed Multiplication            0.2         0.0           0.2
Land Administration            6.1         0.6           6.7
INFRASTRUCTURE                  69.1         5.6          74.7
Irrigation                    15.3         0.8         16.1
Rural Roads                   53.8         4.8          58.6
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION           2.2         0.0           2.2
TOTAL BASE COSTS               115.7         8.3         124.0
Physical Contingency          12.4         1.0         13.4
Price Contingency              8.4         0.8          9.2
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS '/         136.5        10.1        146.6
Financing Plan:                 Local      Foreign      Total
-----------(US$ M.---________
IDA                             115.9        10.1        126.0
Government of Assam and
Beneficiaries                    20.6         0.0          20.6
Total                           136.5        10.1         146.6
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ million)            FY96  FY97  FY98  FY99  FYOO  FY01  FY02  FY03
Annual                    12.6  16.4  18.9  17.7  17.6  17.6  15.1  10.1
Cumulative                12.6  29.0  47.9  65.6  83.2 100.8 115.9 126.0
Economic Rate of Return:        24%
'/ including taxes and duties amounting to US$ 7.3 million



I. BACKGROUND
The Economy and Agriculture of India
1.1       In 1991 the Government of India (GOI) started to liberalize the
country's economy with a reform program focused on the investment regime,
trade policies, financial sector, public enterprises, and taxation. The
economy has responded positively to the stabilization and reform measures
implemented, but macroeconomic stress brought about by the reform program
poses new challenges for policy. Growth recovered from 2% per year, in
1991/92 to around 4% per year in 1993/94. Details of the macroeconomic
performance are described in the Bank Report "Recent Economic Developments and
Prospects for India (Report No. 12940-IN)" of May 27, 1994.
1.2       Agricultural growth has averaged 2.6% per annum over the last two
decades, slightly above the population growth rate of 2.1%. Despite
comparatively modest growth, agriculture remains important to the Indian
economy. Though agriculture's share of GDP is only about 35%, a large
percentage of India's population of 880 million is dependent on the sector.
About 75% of India's people live in rural areas, and about 64% are directly
employed in agriculture.
1.3       Though the performance of the agricultural sector has improved over
the same period (for example, through increased exports), there remain long-
standing issues facing the development of agriculture in India. Without
broad-ranging reforms, the prospects for accelerated, sustainable, and
equitable growth are not encouraging. Some contributing factors for the
inadequate performance of the agricultural sector, some of which were brought
out in the Bank's recent public expenditure review, include excessive
expenditures for subsidies on inputs and outputs, low levels of cost recovery
for services provided by government, restrictions on both domestic and
external trade, and the weak structure of the rural credit system.
1.4       Public expenditures on agriculture have been increasing at about 5%
per year in real terms, with the recurrent component increasing at about 8%
and the capital formation component declining by about 2%. These trends,
evident at both the central and the state level, are unsustainable and have
become worse over the past five years. The challenge for the future is to
accelerate growth by improving the technical, financial, and economic
efficiencies in the sector while paying greater attention to the equity
aspects of development, the sustainability of the production base, and the
preservation of the environment.
1.5       Although public expenditures have been instrumental in facilitating
agricultural growth, Indian agriculture is at a critical stage. Gains in the
agricultural sector have not been sufficiently large to alleviate poverty
among the growing population. The challenge is to increase the growth rate of
production to support population growth and raise living standards. This
requires a critical reevaluation of the composition of public expenditure and
the efficiency of allocation.



-2-
Maior Issues Affectinc Acricultural Performance
1.6       Inadeauate Economic Liberalization.  The incomplete liberalization
of the trade regime, in particular for consumer goods, continues to
discriminate against agriculture by depressing farmers' incentives to invest
and produce. Within agriculture, government price controls, market
interventions, and trade regulations restrict growth opportunities.
1.7       Central and State government.  Although the broad economic
environment is under the control of the central government, the constitution
assigns responsibility for agriculture to the states. The central government
finances about 40% of agricultural expenditure at the state level but does not
influence the composition of the states' public expenditures. As a result of
this shared responsibility, any reform process becomes difficult to implement.
1.8       Sustainabilitv Effects.  Distortions in the incentive structure and
management weakness not only reduce growth but also threaten its long-term
sustainability. The two main issues are (a) over-exploitation and inefficient
use of the natural resource base induced by pricing distortions, such as
underpricing of water and power, and (b) poor operation and maintenance of
irrigation and other infrastructure.
1.9       Major land and water resources in India have been developed and
utilized. Future growth must depend largely on intensified production (on
both irrigated and rainfed land), crop diversification and increased
efficiency.
The GOI's Agricultural Strateov
1.10      The GOI's long-term strategy is to stimulate agricultural growth
and promote rural development through improved water and land management,
enhanced efficiency of irrigation and drainage networks, strengthened research
services, increased attention to environmental protection, and improved rural
infrastructure. Investment programs to address these elements and to
reestablish growth are assigned a high priority in the Eighth Five-Year Plan
(1992/97) of the GOI and state governments. The Plan also emphasizes
equitable distribution of the benefits of growth and sustainability of the
resource base.
1.11      According to the Plan, increasing public support for agriculture
would focus on horticulture, livestock, fisheries, and sericulture. The plan
aims at infusing new dynamism through redirecting public investments in
infrastructural development and promoting private investment in the
agricultural sector. The Plan gives priority to improving rainfed agriculture
through diversification, creating incentives for exports, increasing the role
of the private sector, enhancing the effectiveness of the safety net programs,
and using natural resources in a sustainable manner.



-3-
The State of Assam
1.12      Assam, the largest of seven northeastern states, is among the
poorest in the country. About 60% of the rural population have incomes below
the official poverty line of Rs 7,800 (US$240) per household per year. The
State covers an area of 78,000 sq km, of which 34,000 sq km (44%) are
cultivable; the remainder is under forest or uncultivable. The State mainly
comprises the valley of the Brahmaputra River, stretching from the Himalayan
foothills in the northeast to its entry into Bangladesh in the southwest.
There are three main regions: the flat, rice-dominated valley bottom; the
foothill areas, which to the north and east are largely under tea cultivation;
and the less prosperous, hilly tracts to the south bordering the states of
Meghalaya and Nagaland.
1.13      The population of Assam is estimated at 22.3 million, with a growth
rate of 3.6% per year, compared to 2.7% for all India. The most striking
feature is the growing unemployment among educated youths, estimated at almost
60%. Even for those with steady incomes from employment, wages have been
declining in real terms over the last 20 years. Minimum wages in Assam
average Rs 15 per day compared with Rs 23 to 25 per day in other states such
as Haryana, Punjab, and Manipur.
Agriculture in Assam: Constraints and Potential
1.14      Rainfall in Assam averages over 2,000 mm per year, permitting
double-cropping in many areas. The state suffers from frequent floods, soil
erosion, and low cropping intensity. Surface and groundwater resources are
abundant but have not been exploited fully. Despite good water resources, the
average yield of rice, the dominant crop, is only 1,150 kg per hectare, well
below the national average of 1,500 kg per ha. Where irrigation facilities
exist, higher yields can and are being obtained from the dry season rice crop.
There is considerable potential for agricultural growth by increasing cropping
intensity, raising rice yields, and diversifying into higher-value activities
such as horticulture, fisheries, and dairy production.
1.15      Issues affecting agricultural growth in the state include:
(a) poorly developed input supply services;
(b) inadequacy of groundwater development;
(c) poorly developed rural infrastructure (e.g., rural roads,
marketing, electrification, and communications);
(d) problems of flood management and drainage in flood-prone areas; and
(e) failure to tailor agricultural research and technology transfer to
local conditions.



-4-
1.16      The poor performance of the agricultural sector in the State is
partly caused by a low level of fertilizer use, poor quality seed, inadequate
use of conjunctive irrigation with high rainfall, small and fragmented land
holdings, absence of rural credit, and deficiencies in research and extension
services. Government policies have traditionally promoted public sector
control of input distribution, reduce direct public expenditure for capital
formation in the agricultural sector, restrict private sector involvement in
the provision of essential goods and services, subsidize inefficient public
corporations, and distort competition. Resources for operation and
maintenance of public infrastructure, including irrigation and drainage, rural
roads, and power generating units, have routinely been inadequate.
1.17      Intensification and diversification of agriculture are essential
for accelerating growth in Assam. This shift requires a strategic approach to
increase productivity and minimize crop losses that distributes risk and
encourages small farmers to respond to changes in market and production
technology. The average farm size of 1.3 hectares is the smallest in the
country and declining. These small land holdings are fragmented further into
3 to 4 parcels, making them uneconomic units to support the average family of
five. Land consolidation should encourage intensification of agriculture in
the large flood-free areas, on the recharged aquifers, in perennial streams
and rivulets, and in the vast low-lying areas with adequate residual moisture
to raise early-maturing second crops. Successful intensification would
require revamped agricultural research and extension services, staff training,
infrastructure development, and a supportive policy environment.
1.18      In the period 1984/94 rice production in the state increased by an
average of 4t annually, partly due to area expansion (from 2.3 to 2.5 million
hectares) and yield improvement (from 990 to 1,150 kg per hectare). The
potential for further area expansion is almost exhausted. Small farmers could
achieve this target if the research and extension service could speed the
adoption of (a) high-yielding varieties of rice for the spring (Ahu) and
summer (Boro) seasons, (b) improved early-maturing varieties of oilseeds and
pulses suited for limited moisture stress conditions, and (c) efficient use of
fertilizers.   If small farmers in Assam increased cropping intensity by 10 to
15% annually, Assam's food production would double during the next 10 years.
1.19      The GOA recently formulated an agricultural strategy to foster
growth and development. The strategy includes policy adjustment and targets
small and poor farming communities to (a) develop area-specific assets and
infrastructure required to support productive and sustainable farming systems;
(b) plan and execute relevant research, extension, and training programs for
accelerated agricultural growth, and (c) create a favorable policy and
investment framework and an enabling environment for active private sector
participation.
1.20      The GOA has succeeded in enlisting the support of the World Food
Program, local and national NGOs, and other bilateral agencies to implement
this strategy. This collaboration has already resulted in several small-scale



-5-
projects for fish production, livestock improvement, groundwater development,
and road construction in rural India. Further resources will be needed to
expand these development activities.
The Bank's ADnroach to Aariculture in Assam
1.21      The Bank's current approach to agriculture is to assist the GOA in
(a) expanding successful development experiences to poor communities, (b)
intensifying the use both human capital and natural resources; (c) improving
the management of its resources through policy reforms and institutional
development; and (d) redressing inequities.
World Bank SuDDort
1.22      The Bank has supported agriculture and rural development in India
since the early 1950s. One hundred thirty-three projects have received IBRD
or IDA financing totaling US$10.6 billion equivalent (81% IDA and 19% IBRD).
Of these projects, 53 were for irrigation and command area development (US$5.2
billion equivalent, or 50% of total agricultural lending). The remaining 80
projects can be subdivided as follows: (a) 34 for agricultural support
services (credit, research, and extension), at US$2.3 billion equivalent; (b)
24 for commercial agriculture development (fisheries, livestock, tree crops,
and agro-industry), at US$1.6 billion equivalent; (c) 12 for forestry, at
US$500 million equivalent; and (d) 10 other projects including area
development, drought assistance, and cyclone emergency projects, at US$950
million equivalent.
1.23      In policy reform and lending for agriculture, the Bank has
supported two agricultural development projects (ADPs) in Tamil Nadu and
Rajasthan whose implementation has been satisfactory. The Government of Tamil
Nadu (GOTN) has eliminated subsidies for agricultural inputs including seeds,
fertilizers, and pesticides. The Government of Rajasthan has increased
expenditure for long-term investment in agriculture by 20% and streamlined its
recurrent expenditure, and removed several distortions in its current
agricultural policies.
1.24      The Bank Group has also supported an ADP (Cr.728-IN) with an amount
of US$8.0 million for Assam alone as well as 12 other projects, which Assam
participated along with other states, for a total credit and loan amount
equivalent to US$2.2 billion. Although the proposed project is similar to the
earlier ADP, the earlier ADP lacked policy reforms. The other projects
include four Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation Credit
Projects (Cr. 540-IN, 715-IN, 947-IN, and 1209-IN and Ln. 2095-IN), two
National Dairy Projects (Cr. 824-IN and 859-IN and Ln. 2893-IN), two National
Agricultural Research Projects (Cr. 855-IN and 1631-IN), the National
Agricultural Extension Project (Cr. 1754-IN), the National Bank for
Agricultural and Rural Development Project (Ln. 2653), the National Seeds
Project (Cr. 1952-IN), and the Food Grain Storage Project (Cr. 747-IN).



-6-
Lessons from Previous Bank Involvement
1.25      Many agricultural projects that the Bank has supported have
experienced implementation problems causing delays in disbursement and
completion, although there has recently been improvement in disbursements.
Problems include delays in project mobilization and procurement; poor quality
construction and maintenance of infrastructure (e.g., irrigation, rural
roads); institutional weaknesses; inadequate financial support by the state
governments; inadequate preparation and implementation of resettlement and
rehabilitation programs for affected families; and poor maintenance of assets
created by projects. Some projects have faced staff constraints as well.
Others have provided for only limited participation of beneficiaries,
including NGOs and women, in project planning and implementation.
1.26      Because the proposed project includes large investments in rural
roads and irrigation, lessons from the Bihar Rural Roads Project (Cr. 1072-IN)
and the Tube Wells Project in Bihar and West Bengal are relevant. Although
the Bihar Rural Roads Project achieved impressive physical targets of road
construction within the project period, the design, quality of construction,
and road maintenance were poor. As a result, the life of these roads was much
shorter than expected. Also, public tube wells in Bihar failed to irrigate
the intended cropped area because of weak beneficiary participation, resulting
in poor cost recovery for repair and maintenance. By contrast those in West
Bengal succeeded after they were handed over to farmer groups.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.27      The proposed project is consistent with the Bank's Country
Assistance StrateQv (CAS) for India presented to the Executive Directors on
May 12, 1994. Among other aspects, the CAS emphasizes providing direct
support for specific reforms through policy-based investment operations at the
sectoral, state, and economy-wide levels. As demonstrated during the last two
years, the Bank is uniquely placed to carry out a dialogue on policy reform
with the GOI and state governments and support implementation of a reform
program.
1.28      The strategy places increased importance on private sector
initiative and responsibility. It involves:
(a) encouraging the private sector to supply goods and services that
now are provided exclusively by the public sector;
(b) introducing beneficiary participation in the design, operation and
maintenance, and financing and ownership of the assets created by
the investment; and
(c) effecting cost recovery for publicly supplied goods and services to
ensure accountability and sustained maintenance of assets.



-7-
1.29      Given the high incidence of poverty in the eastern states of India.
including Assam. there is need to redirect Bank assistance to these areas
where the marginal productivity of investment is high in order to create
regional balance and assist in the alleviation of poverty. The emphasis is on
balancing appropriate targeting and delivery of production support services to
increase the agricultural production of the poor on the one hand and efficient
resource allocation and a reduced role for the public sector on the other.
The GOA and the World Food Programme, participating NGOs, and other local
institutions have successfully implemented small-scale development activities
in food production and rural infrastructure in selected poor communities (see
para 1.20). The Bank can play a unique role in assisting the GOA to expand
these successful pilot projects.
II. THE PROJECT
Project Origin and Concept
2.1       The GOA approached the Bank for assistance in its ongoing
development efforts designed to accelerate agricultural growth and alleviate
poverty in rural areas. The rural poor have low incomes, high maternal and
child mortality rates, poor nutrition, low female literacy, low unskilled
labor wages, and high risks of food security. The poor communities in Assam
have limited access to assets, including land, as well as underdeveloped
infrastructure and supporting services, compounding the poverty syndrome.
2.2       The project has been designed to target its benefits to the poorest
rural populations. It would offer better employment opportunities to poorer
farmers, and particularly to women, to improve their incomes and nutrition.
An attempt would be made to balance the GOA's policy reform objectives with
poverty alleviation goals through careful targeting of beneficiaries. The
project also incorporates specific measures to ensure beneficiaries'
participation in the selection and location of activities supported under the
project (para 3.4 to 3.8).
Project Obiectives
2.3       The primary objectives of the project would be to (a) improve
equity and alleviate poverty by offering better opportunities for poorer
farmers and women to contribute to agricultural growth and income generation;
(b) improve the nutrition of the rural poor; (c) accelerate agricultural
growth through improved use of resources, relieving infrastructural and
technical constraints, and providing an enabling environment to facilitate the
growth of private sector investments; (d) encourage sustainability of resource
use and quality of the environment; and (e) strengthen the agricultural policy
framework and improve the GOA's long-term capacity for strategic agricultural
planning.



-8-
Project Description
2.4       The project is intended to benefit the poorest segments of the
rural population (para 2.2). To achieve this objective, the project would
support: (a) the Department of Agriculture's work program, including the
extension services for horticulture, fisheries, and livestock to poor rural
communities aimed at increasing their production; (b) institutional
development (technology generation and extension, seed multiplication and land
administration, and planning and coordination); and (c) rural infrastructure
(small scale irrigation and rural roads). Project components would also
include a number of studies considered necessary for improving the use of
natural resources (soil and water management) and the marketing of highly
perishable horticultural products. The proposed project would be implemented
in eight years starting in 1995/96 and would include a package of state-
specific policy reforms agreed to by the Bank and formally approved by the
GOA.
2.5       Project Area.  Although the project would cover the poor farming
communities in the entire state (23 districts), the intensity of activities in
each district would depend on the existing production potential. It would
provide specific investment support to meet the high-priority needs of these
communities. The development blocks to be covered by the project in each
district are shown in Annex 12. Indigenous people (scheduled tribes and
scheduled castes) form about 18% of the plains population (in 21 of 23
districts) and are scattered over the entire state. The tribal population in
rural areas, which is engaged in agriculture and practices farming systems
similar to those of its neighbors, is among the beneficiaries of the project.
Two hill districts are predominantly tribal areas with a separate
administrative arrangement supported by the central government. Because of
the special nature of the hill districts in the state, the project would limit
its coverage to activities of highest potential, such as fruit production.
Under these circumstances, the proiect does not need a separate development
plan for the tribals.
2.6       Targeting of Low-Income Beneficiaries.  Project activities would be
targeted to selected farming communities according to agreed criteria
including accessibility of markets, availability of rural roads, and delivery
of inputs supplies. Within these communities, the project would target about
300,000 rural households cultivating about 49,000 hectares. Preference would
be given to households with limited resources, including small land holdings,
low incomes (below the poverty line), and poor access to clean water (see para
3.28; Annex 3, Attachment 3; Annex 8; and Annex 9). The project would assist
poor households, especially women cultivators and heads of households, in
acquiring access to water, employment, and improved nutrition within their
communities. The GOA through the baseline surveys would identify the target
group of the poorest in the rural area for project activities. Other rural
households and communities would benefit from the improvement and
rehabilitation of rural roads and agricultural services.



- 9-
2.7       Proposed Reform Proqram.  During project preparation, a review of
the state budget revealed that recurrent expenditure in agriculture is
displacing investment and thereby adversely affecting agricultural growth.
The GOA in preparing its agricultural development strategy analyzed these
issues (see para 1.19). The strategy includes (a) reduction of public sector
delivery of production inputs and services, (b) introduction of cost recovery
where possible and reduction of subsidies, (c) diversification of farming
toward products in which the state has comparative advantage, (d)
liberalization of state trade policy, (e) preparation and implementation of
demand-driven agricultural research programs, and (f) introduction of policy
incentives to promote private sector involvement in agriculture.
2.8       To implement the above strategy, GOA has formulated a policy action
matrix (Annex 2). Under the plan, GOA would:
(a) encourage private and cooperative sector investment in fisheries
development by extending lease periods for water bodies from three
to 7 years by issuing related government orders during 1996;
(b) issue government orders by the end of 1996 to invite private sector
companies and individuals to operate and manage foundation and
certified seed multiplication farms and horticultural nurseries
currently run by the Agriculture Department and public agencies;
(c) prepare a five-year plan by the end of 1996 to phase out GOA
subsidies on agricultural inputs, except those for tribals and
scheduled castes covered by special programs;
(d) phase out subsidies for farm machinery hire service offered by the
Engineering Wing of the Department of Agriculture to encourage
private sector involvement by the end of 1996;
(e) initiate implementation of the Irrigation Act of 1992 in 1996,
according to an agreed plan that would allow full cost recovery of
water from beneficiaries, including the cost of electricity for
public deep tube wells and lift irrigation schemes;
(f) during 1996, issue a government order to facilitate transfer of new
and rehabilitated irrigation schemes under the project to
beneficiaries;
(g) prepare during 1996 a schedule for phasing out non-viable public
sector enterprises in agriculture; and
(h) during 1996, assign responsibility for fisheries policy development
to the Department of Fisheries to include all public water bodies.



-10-
2.9       Reforms Already Implemented.  During project processing, the GOA
had taken early actions toward implementation of selected policy reforms
recommended under the project. It had:
(a)  extended lease periods of water bodies from three to five years to
attract private sector involvement in fisheries development;
(b)  increased farm machinery hire charges from Rs 286 to Rs 372 per
hectare per day (reducing the subsidy by 30%);
(c)  increased water charges from Rs 80 to Rs 140 per hectare during
kharif;
(d)  identified unprofitable public sector corporations in the
agricultural sector to be wound-up; and
(e)  prepared an annual work program and budget for FY96, which includes
specific reduction of subsidies on fertilizers and seeds.
2.10      During project implementation, the GOA would submit the state
agricultural budget and work program to the Bank on an annual basis reflecting
policy adjustment. The Bank would review the documents and assist the GOA to
rationalize and reverse the current trend in public expenditure. During
negotiations the GOA confirmed its commitment to imnlement the above Dolicy
reforms (vara 2.8).
Detailed Features of Investment Proposals
Poverty Alleviation (US$24.1 million, or 19% of the base cost).
2.11      The project would support the GOA annual agricultural program which
is directed to alleviate poverty and improve services to rural communities in
23 districts. The priority areas would include the development of (a)
fisheries, (b) horticulture, and (c) livestock. The project would support
implementation of these activities according to agreed formula for capital
cost sharing with beneficiaries, outlined in the cost recovery section (see
paras 4.24 to 4.26).
(a)  Fisheries Development.  To tap the existing potential for fish
production in Assam (Annex 1, para 15), the project would include
three main activities:
(i)  Fish Production.  Support for the development of farm ponds
(800 ponds of average size of 0.25 ha each), community tanks
(150 tanks of average size of 2 ha each), and large beele (SO
beels of average size of 100 ha each). The beels would be
constructed and seeded at an average cost of Rs 13,000 per
hectare and leased out to the highest private bidders.



-11-
(ii) Fish Support Services. Support needed to (a) establish six
fish health units and a mini-mill for testing and development
of feed; (b) strengthen extension service (e.g., providing
training to fish subject matter specialists to supplement the
broad-based extension service, para 2.14 (c)); and (c) carry
out demonstration of integrated fish farming system with
horticulture and animal husbandry.
(iii)  Monitoring and Evaluation. Support to investigate problems
affecting floodplain fisheries, carry out a systematic
ecological survey of the wetlands, monitor implementation of
fisheries development activities, and evaluate the impact of
the project on rural incomes and on the environment.
(b) Horticulture. To alleviate some of the constraints affecting the
development of high-value crops (see Annex 1, para 16), the project
would:
(i)  strengthen 23 progeny orchards;
(ii) train subject matter specialists for extension service; and
(iii)  establish demonstration plots on selected farmers' fields by
providing improved horticultural planting material.
Only progeny orchards that would be leased to private entrepreneurs
would be rehabilitated. Detailed review of their performance and
potential for improvement would be undertaken to attract interested
private entrepreneurs. The objective would be to promote private
production of horticultural seed and seedlings.
(c)  Livestock Development.  To complement the GOA's ongoing effort to
improve livestock productivity (see Annex 1, para 17), the project
would:
(i)  support an artificial insemination (AI) program by extending
coverage of the cattle upgrading program through establishment
of three frozen semen production stations, creating six "frozen
semen banks," rehabilitating existing liquid nitrogen plants,
and extending coverage of AI to the poor districts;
(ii) strengthen disease diagnostic and investigation laboratories
and disease monitoring;
(iii)  refurbish and modify Livestock Husbandry Department buildings
for training and procure equipment and training material;
(iv) train self-employed livestock technicians (veterinarians,
breeders, and "lay inseminators");



-12-
(v) train subject matter specialists in basic aspects of animal
husbandry and management; and
(vi) support forage seeds production by the private sector through
contracts and forage production by NGOs and field management
committees (FMCs).
Institutional DeveloDment (US$23.1 million, or 19t of base cost).
2.12      The success of the project in alleviating poverty would depend on
the capacity of the institutions involved to generate and transfer
agricultural technology efficiently, especially in the priority production
areas supported by the project (horticulture, fisheries, and livestock).
Because about 70% of the area is flood-prone during the monsoon season,
availability of adaptive technology to these conditions will be especially
important.
2.13      Furthermore, because of the small size of farms, increased
diversification and efficiency of production from land becomes crucial to the
survival of the household. The project would support improvement of
integrated technology generation and transfer to cover crop, livestock, and
fish production and land use efficiency for both irrigated and rainfed
farming.
2.14      Specifically, the project covers (a) technology generation, (b)
education and training, (c) extension service, (d) seed multiplication, and
(a) land administration.
(a) Technoloov Generation. The project would:
(i) strengthen the state-level applied research in six regional
agricultural research stations under the Assam Agricultural
University, namely, Titabar, Shillongani, Karimganj, Lakhimpur,
Gossaigaon, and Diphu;
(ii) strengthen the livestock research center at Mandira and the
horticultural research center at Kahikuchi, and establish a new
fisheries research center at Jorhat; and
(iii) establish a pilot project on soil and water conservation and
management and treat about 5,400 hectares of land, which would
serve as demonstrations.
(b)  Education and Trainina.  Assam Agricultural University is
responsible for education and training of pre-service staff. The
objective of the subcomponent is to increase the representation of
women in the extension service. Facilities for farmer training
would also be provided at five sites (selected, surveyed, and ready
to build). To accomplish the objective, the project would:



-13-
(i)  support pre-service training for women by refurbishing the Gram
Sevika Training Center at Jorhat;
(ii)  strengthen the ability of the Assam agricultural university to
provide in-service training to extension staff;
(iii)  support farmers' training; and
(iv)  upgrade the training facility at Naltoli to function as a
state-level staff training institute.
(c)  Extension.  Under the proposed project, coverage of a broad based
extension service would be expanded to include high-value crops,
fisheries, and livestock, as well as introduce reforms aimed at
addressing recognized limitations of the current T&V system and
associated problems. The strategy would be to (i) strengthen the
role of the contact farmer and group approaches through stronger
links with FMCs and NGOs, (ii) use local mass media (both print and
electronic), (iii) develop extension materials for women farmers,
and (iv) expand the participation of field staff and NGOs in the
design and implementation of the extension strategy, which
addresses both production targets and efficient management of land
and water resources. Watershed development and soil and water
management would receive special emphasis. To achieve the above
strategy, the project would:
(i)  extend coverage of the expanded extension service to all
agricultural subdivisions, including eight additional
subdivisions, and provide vehicles for the Agricultural
Department and for extension staff on a hire-purchase
arrangement;
(ii)  support Field Trial Stations, to include trials and
demonstration of production technologies (farm power and
harvesting) on farmers' fields, and postharvest technology
(crop drying and storage);
(iii)  strengthen provision of information to extension staff by
supplying equipment (including an offset printing facility),
and materials.
(d)  Seed MultiDlication.  A seed production plan prepared by the GOA
identified the state's need for breeder, foundation and certified
seed. To assist Assam in implementing the above plan more
efficiently, limited support would be provided to the public sector
(Assam Agricultural University) to produce breeder seed.
Facilities for processing and maintaining seed would be provided.
The project would also provide improvements (fencing, farm
machinery and equipment, repair of farm buildings, provision of
irrigation water) on government foundation and certified seed farms



-14-
to be leased to the private sector, the full cost of which would be
recovered from the new lease holders.
(e)  Land Administration.  In Assam, pressure on land is high.  More
than 60% of the state's land holders own less than one hectare of
highly fragmented land. With such small land holdings, long-term
investment, such as improved irrigation and drainage, which is
critical for increasing crop yields and diversification to high-
value crops, is limited. The project would introduce better
integrated land use planning and improve land management operations
by supporting cadastral surveys and computerizing land records in
two districts, and consolidating fragmented land holdings in 15
villages of four revenue circles of Kamrup District. The pilot
project would be implemented over three years and would ultimately
cover about 10,000 land holders on an estimated cultivable land
area of 2,400 hectares.
Infrastructure DeveloDment (US$74.7 million, or 60% of base cost).
2.15      Poorly developed infrastructure is an impediment to the economic
development of the state (Annex 1, para 1-11; on irrigation and roads). The
project would support specific improvements in irrigation and rural roads.
(a) Irrigation. The project would target a ground water development
effort to the poor communities. To accomplish the strategy, the
project would:
(i) construct 15,000 shallow tube wells (STWs) covering 33,000 ha;
(ii) rehabilitate 320 deep tube wells (DTws) and provide combination
pump sets (both electric and diesel pump) to about 8% of the
wells, and rehabilitate 150 river pumping schemes, for a total
irrigation capacity of about 15,500 ha;
(iii) construct five irrigation tanks as a pilot scheme to irrigate
about 100 ha;
(iv) assist in establishing farmer groups (field management
committees and water user associations) and train farmers in
the proper operation and maintenance of the irrigation
schemes through NGOs as promoters and organizers of farmers
groups; and
(v) provide training to project staff.
The project would support implementation of the irrigation
activities according to an agreed formula for capital cost sharing
with beneficiaries, outlined in the cost recovery section (see para
4.24 to 4.26).



-15-
(b)  Rural Roads.  It is estimated that more than 17,000 kilometers of
rural roads in Assam are in need of improvement. However, the high
cost of road construction, currently estimated at Rs 1.5 to 2.0
million per kilometer, mainly due to high royalty payments for
construction material, would limit the support to a small, well-
defined network of rural roads in six districts (Lakhimpur,
Nagaong, Sibsagar, Kamrup, Darrang, and Cachar). The project would
cover:
(i)  rehabilitation of about 1,400 km of rural roads, including
replacement of 282 unserviceable timber bridges;
(ii) provision of spare parts for heavy road construction equipment
under the Public Works Department (PWD);
(iii)  provision of consultant services to prepare road and bridge
designs, specifications, drawings, and bidding documents and to
supervise construction by private contractors;
(iv) modernization of the PWD's laboratory and design, mechanical
and road maintenance wings;
(v)  support for rural road maintenance; and
(vi) training of PWD personnel in project and contract management,
quality control, road maintenance, and labor-intensive
construction.
The selection of roads has taken into account areas of agricultural
potential, traffic growth projections, need to improve the existing
coimmunications system between villages and markets, and the extent
to which land acquisition and negative environmental effects can be
avoided. The selection was based on agreed criteria for ranking
roads incorporating the above factors, developed jointly by the PWD
and the IDA through consultation with rural communities and NGOs
(Annex 3, Attachment 3). Although support for road repair and
maintenance is provided under the proiect. preparation of a road
maintenance policy. financing arrangements, and imnlementation plan
satisfactory to the Association is a condition of disbursement of
Credit funds for road maintenance.
Prolect Implementation (US$2.2 million, or 2% of base cost).
2.16      Because of the multisectoral nature of the activities supported
under the project, assistance would be provided to create in-house capacity
for project implementation. GOA would establish a Project Implementation Unit
(PIU), and funds under the project would finance vehicles, office equipment,
incremental operation and maintenance, and minimal incremental staff to plan,



-16-
design, supervise, monitor and evaluate project activities. Studies on soils
and water management and marketing of high-value crops would also be financed
under the project (Annex 4, Attachments 1 and 2).
Proiect Costs and Financing
2.17      Total project costs including physical and price contingencies are
estimated at Rs 5,676.5 million (US$146.6 million), of which US$10.1 million,
or 8.0% of base costs, would be in foreign exchange. Investment costs and
recurrent costs amount to 77% and 23% of base costs, respectively. The
breakdown of costs by component is shown at Annex 5 and is summarized below.
Project costs are based on actual July 1994 prices and include physical
contingencies of US$13.4 million (about 11.0% of total base costs) and price
contingencies totaling US$9.2 million (7.0% of base costs) that are based on
the following projected annual inflation rates. Local inflation rates for
1994, 1995, and 1996 are projected to be 9.5%, 8.0%, and 7.0%. The local
inflation rate for each of the remaining years of the project is projected to
be 6%. Regarding external inflation, annual rates of 3.0%, 1.5%, 1.8%, and
2.6% for 1994 to 1997, respectively, and 2.5% annually thereafter through 2001
(which are consistent with the Bank's latest projections issued October 1994)
were assumed in estimating project costs.



-17-
2.18      Identifiable duties and taxes would amount to Rs 276.8 million
(US$7.3 million). Total project cost, net of duties and taxes, would be
US$139.3 million.
Proiect Cost Summary
COMPONENTS                     Local      Foreign       Total     t Foreign
exchange
--millions of U.S. dollars--
POVERTY ALLEVIATION            22.7         12.1                     6
Horticulture                  2.5         0.2           2.7        6
Fisheries                     8.2         0.7           8.9        8
Livestock Development        12.0         0.5          12.5        4
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT      21.7         1.3          23.0        6
Technology Generation         2.6         0.2           2.8         8
Education and Training        2.4         0.1           2.5        5
Extension Service            10.4         0.4          10.8        4
Seed Multiplication           0.2         0.0           0.2        7
Land Administration           6.1         0.6           6.7        9
INFRASTRUCTURE                 69.1         5.6          74.7        8
Irrigation                   15.3         0.8          16.1        5
Rural Roads                  53.8         4.8          58.6        8
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION          2.2         0.0           2.2         2
TOTAL BASE COSTS               115.7        8.3         124.0         7
Physical Contingency         12.4         1.0          13.4        7
Price Contingency             8.4         0.8           9.2        9
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS            136.5       10.1         146.6         7
2.19      The proposed IDA credit of SDR 81.0 million (US$126.0 million
equivalent) would finance 90% of total project costs, net of duties and taxes,
or 86% of total costs including taxes, and all foreign exchange costs.
The credit would be made to the GOI on standard terms and conditions, and the
GOl would on-lend credit proceeds to the GOA on its prevailing terms and
arrangements. The State's contribution and that of the beneficiaries of
project activities, amounting to US$20.6 million would be included in the
GOA's annual budgetary allocations. Funds for implementing individual
activities would be channeled to implementing line departments and agencies,
and Project Implementation Unit. These funds would be available for
reallocation among components depending on the success in implementing a
particular component or the need for inclusion of any new activities within
the general project objective and area. This arrangement would encourage
participating line departments and agencies to complete their targets ahead of
schedule and increase their activities, particularly since the potential for
such expansion exists.



-18-
2.20      To participate effectively, beneficiaries would contribute labor or
cash needed for construction of fish ponds, community fish tanks, and
irrigation schemes and for their operation and maintenance. Beneficiaries
also would construct and maintain village link roads.
2.21      Incremental costs for sustaining activities and facilities
established under the project following its completion would be met by
beneficiaries through collection of charges from user groups. The State
government's budgetary support would be limited to extension service, rural
road repair and maintenance, and incremental recurrent costs for activities
undertaken by Assam Agricultural University.
Procurement
2.22      Works consist of construction and rehabilitation of shallow tube
wells, tanks, deep tube wells, and river pumping schemes for irrigation;
construction of fish ponds, community fish tanks, and large fish beels; and
construction of rural roads and buildings, and repair and maintenance of rural
roads. Because these works are small and scattered throughout the state, they
would not attract foreign bidders. These works would therefore be procured
using national competitive bidding (NCB) and force account procedures
including beneficiaries' in-kind contribution in the form of labor.
(a) NCB would be used in respect of works valued in aggregate US$67.0
M. The works would be grouped into convenient packages for bidding
of at least US$400,000. Necessary land would be acquired prior to
bidding. Contracts would be issued using procedures satisfactory
to the Association; and
(b) Force account up to an aggregate value of US$10.6 M of which US$8.0
M for road repair and maintenance, would be followed for all small
works in remote areas valued at US$10,000 and below, particularly
in respect of construction of fish ponds and shallow tube wells,
and rehabilitation of small irrigation schemes; construction of
buildings; and repair and maintenance of roads.
2.23      Goods consist of vehicles, machinery, tools, equipment, furniture,
construction materials, and agricultural materials and livestock. The
project would fund about 320 vehicles, 260 motorcycles, machinery, tools,
equipment, furniture, and construction materials valued in aggregate at
US$20.0 M. These would be grouped into packages costing over US$200,000 to be
procured following ICB procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Small items of
machinery, tools, equipment, and furniture costing less than US$20,000 per
package up to an aggregate value of US$2.0 M would be procured following local
shopping procedures after comparing price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers. Construction materials required for force account works up
to an aggregate value of US$0.9 M would be procured following local shopping
procedures. Agricultural materials and livestock (seed, seedlings,
fertilizer, breeding stock) for agricultural development activities would have



-19-
a total value of US$7.0 M; purchases of small quantities for use throughout
the project area would be procured using direct purchase procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.24      Consultancies and training consist of policy support (US$0.5
million), implementation support (US$4.3 million), and capacity building
(US$5.2 million) covering technical assistance, NGO services and training.
Technical assistance and NGO services would be contracted on terms and
conditions in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for use of consultants.
Training would be procured using GOA procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.25      Incremental oDeratinQ costs  consist of materials and labor
required for operation and/or maintenance of project vehicles, equipment and
machinery, buildings and office supplies, and incremental salaries and wages
all equivalent to US$29.1 M. Expenditures for these items would be made by
the GOA using financial and administrative procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.26      The following contracts would be subject to the Bank's prior
review: all NCB contracts including works valued over US$200,000, goods valued
over US$100,000, consultancies with firms exceeding US$100,000, and
consultancies with individuals exceeding US$50,000. All other contracts would
be subject to selective post-review by visiting Bank missions.



-20-
2.27       Procurement arrangements are summarized below; figures in
parentheses indicate amounts to be financed by the Bank:
CatecTory                 ICB          NCB          OTHER        TOTAL
--------millions of U.S. dollars---------
Works
Road and Bridge                        55.0          0.0         55.0
Construction                          (55.0)                    (55.0)
Road Maintenance                                     8.0          8.0
(8.0)        (8.0)
Buildings and other                    12.0          2.6         14.6
Infrastructure                        (12.0)                    (12.0)
Goods
Vehicles,                 20.0                       2.9         22.9
Machinery,               (20.0)                                 (20.0)
Tools, Equipment,
Furniture, and
Materials
Agricultural                                         7.0          7.0
Materials and                                       (6.0)        (6.0)
Livestock
Consultancies and Training
Policy Support                                       0.5          0.5
(0.5)        (0.5)
Implementation Support                               4.3          4.3
(4.3)        (4.3)
Capacity Building                                    5.2          5.2
(5.2)        (5.2)
Incremental ODerating Costs
Salaries and Wages                                   8.2          8.2
(3.0)        (3.0)
O&M of Vehicles and                                 14.5         14.5
Equipment,                                          (8.0)        (8.0)
Maintenance of Buildings
Office Supplies                                      6.4          6.4
(4.0)        (4.0)
Total                     20.0         67.0         59.6        146.6
(20.0)       (67.0)       (39.0)      (126.0)



-21-
2.28      Disbursements under the credit would cover 90% of total project
costs net of taxes and duties, including the following:
(a) 100% of expenditure on consultancies;
(b) 90% of expenditure on works; and
(c) 100% of foreign expenditure, or 100% of ex-factory costs, or 80% of
costs of goods, if purchased locally.
2.29      Expenditure on incremental operating costs would be on a declining
basis as follows: 70% until March 31, 1996, 50% until March 31, 1998, and 20%
thereafter (including vehicle and equipment operation and maintenance,
agricultural materials, office supplies, incremental salaries, and wages and
utilities).
2.30      Full documentation would be provided for disbursements for
expenditures for vehicles, equipment, and furniture under contracts exceeding
US$100,000; for works under contracts exceeding US$200,000; and for
consultants and training under contracts exceeding US$100,000 (US$50,000 for
individual consultants). For all other expenditures, IDA would disburse
against statements of expenditure (SOE) in an agreed format. Supporting
documents for SOEs would be available for inspection by supervision missions
and auditors, and retained by implementing agencies for one year after Bank
receipt of the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the credit account was made. Based on the credit disbursement profile
for Bank-assisted agricultural projects in India, the credit under the project
would be disbursed over eight years from July 1995 to June 2003 (Annex 6).
Project completion is June 30, 2003 and credit closing is December 31, 2003.
Retroactive FinancinQ and Special Account
2.31      To expedite project start-up, IDA would retroactively finance
project expenditures incurred after appraisal (November 1, 1994) up to a limit
of SDR 3.9 M (US$6.0 M equivalent), provided IDA procurement procedures and
guidelines were followed. These expenditures would include procurement of
vehicles and equipment, consultant services and workshops for training, and
other start-up activities. To facilitate timely payment of project
expenditures, a Special Account amounting to an equivalent of US$4.0 million
(equal to three months' average disbursements) would be established at the
Reserve Bank of India.
Accounts and Audit
2.32      Separate records and accounts would be maintained by each
participating entity. The accounts would identify all project expenditure
transactions on an ongoing basis, including contributions from the GOA, the
GOI, and the credit.   Supporting documentation would be retained for review
by Bank supervision missions. To ensure proper maintenance of records and
accounts, an accounts officer would be recruited in the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) to assist staff of individual line departments and agencies



-22-
implementing project activities in complying with standard government control
and auditing procedures. The Accounts officer would also be responsible for
preparing PIU accounts, conducting internal audits of all project activities
being implemented by line departments, and performing technical audits of the
special account on a regular basis in collaboration with economists in the PIU
and outside experts. Technical audits would be financed with project funds.
The special account would be audited annually, and the audited statements and
the auditor's report would be submitted to IDA.
2.33      The GOA auditing arrangements would continue, and an audit in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and auditing
standards would be made. AQreement was obtained at necqotiations that GOA
would cause all imnlementinQ agencies to maintain separate accounts for
prolect expenditures, and that the PIU would consolidate prolect accounts and
send to the Association certified coDies of the audited accounts and SOEs for
the project not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project Management Approach
3.1       The state agriculture strategy (para 1.19) and policy action matrix
(para 2.8) would provide direction to project management activities. However,
the strategy and the policy would be reviewed and revised regularly to ensure
that basic objectives are achieved for accelerating agricultural development,
public funds are used judiciously, and natural resources are maintained. The
state annual budget would be revised to reflect the policy reforms and
institutional adjustments being proposed under the project.
3.2       Senior policy-makers of the state supported by NGO representatives
would guide project management. The participating line departments would
implement project field activities, which the agricultural production
commissioner (APC) would coordinate at the state level. Support for
incremental staffing would be provided where necessary. The aim of the
project would be to improve staff competence at all levels through project
supported training programs. Systems aimed at improving the quality and
effectiveness of the public services would also be established with emphasis
on quality improvement and cost effectiveness.
3.3       At the grassroots level, participation of beneficiaries,
particularly women, NGOs, and farmers organizations, would be actively
promoted. To the extent possible, the project also would aim at transferring
or leasing production assets to the care and management of the local
beneficiary groups. Involvement of the GOA in activities better suited for
the private sector would be avoided. To achieve thi.s objective the GOA would
create an economic environment conducive to the promotion of the private
sector in agriculture through policy adjustment as reflected in the policy
reform matrix.



-23-
Beneficiary and NGO Participation
3.4       The project would promote beneficiary participation in the
selection, location, design, and implementation of project activities. Local
beneficiary groups, especially Field Management Committees (FMCs), selected
NGOs, and Water User Associations (WUAs) would be responsible for field-level
implementation of project components. Operation and maintenance of common
assets established by the project would be vested with FMCs and WUAs. A
similar approach followed in the Bank-supported Bihar Plateau Development
Project (Cr. 2439-IN) was successful in involving local people in establishing
and maintaining rural assets. Also, several states in India (Haryana, West
Bengal, Maharashtra) have with the support of the Bank, established
sustainable models for WUAs, especially in minor irrigation and tube wells.
The recently issued ICR for West Bengal Minor Irrigation Project (Cr. 1619-IN)
documents the successful experience of WUA in project implementation.
3.5       FMCs are nonpolitical, village-based voluntary social groups
working for the welfare and economic growth of the village communities. The
DOA has actively promoted the formation of FMCs to accelerate agricultural
growth. About 18,000 FMCs have been established throughout the state. Some
1,000 FMCs are self-supporting, and the rest are in various stages of
development.
3.6       FMCs have successfully managed the village common assets
established with support from the World Food Program and local NGOs (e.g.,
fish ponds, surface irrigation schemes and ground water facilities), built
small-scale enterprises, and reinvested the revenue generated from these
activities for common services such as education, WID programs, and short-term
credit programs for the needy poor. FMCs are also active in promoting the
introduction of high-yielding varieties and new, high-value crops, in
encouraging livestock and sericulture development, and in organizing input
delivery and marketing services. WUAs have been established to manage small-
scale irrigation, but the Assam experience with WUAs is limited. Further
expansion under the project would require careful monitoring and technical
assistance specialized in these services.
3.7       Under the project, NGOs would serve as partners responsible for
mobilizing rural people for group action and upgrading skills of FMC leaders.
About 20 NGOs are currently active in the state. NGO involvement in
developmental activities is relatively new in Assam, but it is steadily
growing. In earlier years, NGOs focused primarily on nonfarm employment
opportunities and social welfare programs. Specialized NGOs are interested in
participating in agriculture, animal husbandry, and allied activities.
Information on NGOs in Assam, their activities, and their proposed involvement
in this project is in Annex 8.
3.8       To enhance the effectiveness of the local institutions, the GOA
would empower registered beneficiary groups to collect 1i of the construction
and operation and maintenance cost of the facilities from beneficiaries.



-24-
During project implementation, the GOA would organize workshops for
beneficiaries and NGOs. Agreement was obtained at neqotiations that GOA would
contract NGOs selected accordinQ to criteria aQreed with IDA (Annex 8.
Attachment 4).
Proiect Orcranization and Manaaement
3.9       Being multisectoral, the project would be implemented by a number
of departments and agencies. The agricultural production commissioner (APC)
would coordinate and guide these departments and agencies in implementing
project activities (Annex 7). Each implementing department or agency would
identify one officer who would be responsible for coordinating all its
activities under the project. To assist the APC, a Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) headed by a director and supported by two economists, an
environmentalist, an anthropologist and an accounts officer would be
established and supported under the project. Acreement was obtained at
negotiations that GOA would maintain a Project ImDlementation Unit with
staffinc and responsibilities acreed with the Association.
3.10      The PIU would include an NGO and environment cell to coordinate
beneficiary participation and carry out environmental screening of project
activities. The PIU would be responsible for planning and monitoring
implementation of project activities and for supervising and evaluating
performance both directly and through consultant input.
3.11      To assist in implementation, two committees would be established at
the state level. The Project Guidance Committee (PGC) would be headed by the
chief secretary of the state; the APC would serve as secretary to PGC. Other
senior secretaries in the government and four NGO representatives would serve
as members. This committee would approve the project annual work plan (para
3.15) and budget, and address policy-related issues. The Project Coordination
Committee (PCC), would include the APC as the committee chairperson, the
Project Director as its secretary, heads of implementing departments and
agencies, the additional secretary (Finance) of the Mini-Secretariat, and
representatives of NGOs and user group as members. The Project Coordination
Committee would review annual work plans and associated expenditures in the
budget prepared by PIU prior to submission to the Project Guidance Committee
for approval. It would periodically, assess project performance and offer
suggestions for improvement. AQreement was obtained at negotiations that the
GOA would maintain the Prolect Guidance Committee and the Prolect Coordination
Committee with membershiD and resDonsibilities agreed with the Association.
3.12     Implementation of individual activities under the three main
components would be undertaken by the respective line departments, the
district and block development administration, and the state agricultural
university (Annex 13). NGOs and beneficiaries would also participate in
project implementation. Overall coordination of implementation would be the
responsibility of the project director. The project director's other
responsibilities would be: (a) reviewing and approving plans prepared by line
departments, (b) allocating funds, and (c) monitoring implementation of
approved plans.



-25-
3.13      Because implementing departments have other responsibilities,
separate teams would be created in each line department at Guwahati
exclusively for implementing project activities. Each team would include (a)
the head of the department or agency (chairperson), (b) a senior officer in
the department (secretary), (c) two field-level managers nominated by the
department or agency head, and (d) representatives of two NGOs with
appropriate expertise or experience. Each team would meet periodically (at
least once every quarter) to review plans and field implementation problems
and advise the head of department on appropriate actions.
3.14      The deputy commissioners through their development wings in the
districts would coordinate and integrate all project activities in the
district and assist the APC and PD in planning and overseeing implementation.
The block development officers would perform a similar role at the block
level. At the district block and village levels, the District Planning and
Development Council, the panchayats samiti, and the village panchayats would
help the rural development administration in planning and implementing project
activities. These local institutions would be important contact points for
communicating with people about and sensitizing them to project activities.
3.15      The project is designed as a rolling program with annual work plans
phased in to cover all districts over the implementation period. It aims at
promoting integrated planning and coordinated implementation of the
subcomponents to secure maximum socioeconomic gains. Achieving implementation
efficiency, high quality of works, cost effectiveness, and NGO and beneficiary
involvement are some of the project's major themes.
3.16      The annual work plan would include:
(a)  implementation details and expenditures for project activities
during the year;
(b)  implementation plan and budget for project activities for the
following year;
(c)  arrangements for carrying out cadastral surveys, updating land
records, and encouraging existing local institutions (e.g., Field
Management Committees) to promote land consolidation on a pilot
scale;
(d)  arrangements for leasing irrigation schemes and fish production
tanks and transferring the responsibility for their operation and
maintenance to beneficiaries during the project period;
(e)  agenda for at least two workshops with NGOs to define their role in
the project and facilitate their involvement in implementing
project activities;
(f)  Memoranda of Agreement between implementing departments/agencies
and NGOs and FMCs, covering the selection, location, and design of
project activities in the implementation plan;



-26-
(g) designs, drawings, specifications, and bidding documents for rural
roads proposed for construction during the year;
(h) arrangements for carrying out a systematic ecological survey of the
wetlands;
(i) a training program for staff of implementing line departments, an
appropriate monitoring system, arrangements for carrying out
economic and social surveys, and an annual report evaluating the
impact of the project; and
(j) background studies on ground water for those sites identified for
construction of new tube wells.
3.17      The annual work plan, procurement plan, and civil works plan, along
with the project legal documents, would serve as the main framework for
project implementation. Supervision of the project would be undertaken by
both the Bank and the GOI/MOA on a semi-annual basis. Agreement was obtained
at negotiations that the GOA would prepare and submit to IDA by the end of
March of each year. starting in 1996 annual work plans and budgets for the
proiect satisfactory to the Association.
3.18      To ensure that the Project Implementation Unit carries out its
planning and monitoring responsibilities adequately, competent persons would
be recruited to fill the two economist positions. The candidates would have
appropriate academic backgrounds, and field experience in project planning and
monitoring, and computer skills.   They would be contracted or deployed for
these positions on a fixed-term basis; their salaries and other personal
emoluments would be accommodated within the overall budgetary provisions.
3.19      The economists' primary responsibility would be to formulate and
finalize annual project plans in consultation with implementing line
departments and agencies, and to review and monitor implementation progress.
In addition, the economists would assess field training needs and organize
training for staff in project planning and management, and other courses as
the project director sees fit.
3.20      The environmentalist in the PIU would carry out environmental
assessment and amelioration activities. The expert would organize workshops
as forums for NGOs and others to deliberate on all aspects of the project,
with particular emphasis on the environment, and make recommendations to the
decision making committees proposed under the project. At these workshops,
NGO representatives would be elected to the various committees.
3.21      The Anthropologist in the PIU would coordinate NGO activities,
specifically reviewing investment proposals with respect to the participatory
process and social concerns; developing innovative proposals for possible
implementation under the project; standardizing the methodology, procedure,
and norms for major field activities, such as beneficiary organization; and
monitoring and evaluating NGO activities implemented with financial assistance
from the project.



-27-
3.22      The environmentalist and the anthropologist would develop criteria
and operational procedures for screening project investment components for
environmental and social considerations, and put in place arrangements for
implementation of these procedures. The NGO and environment cell would also
develop and implement guidelines for monitoring activities throughout the
project (para 4.19). Investments under the project are not expected to
displace families from their lands. However, as a precaution, in unforeseen
situation if it becomes necessary, the GOA agreed at the negotiations to carry
out land acaruisition and resettlement and rehabilitation of any peonle
affected by the prolect in accordance with arrangements and procedures agreed
with the Association. Such arrangements and procedures are included in Annex
17.
Planning Procedure
3.23      The economists in the PIU would (a) formulate, in the third quarter
of each year, an annual work program for the succeeding year in consultation
with the heads of departments/agencies, deputy commissioners, and NGOs; and
(b) review implementation progress during the year, agree on the selection and
design criteria, and review monitoring and evaluation reports, other specific
studies, and NGO/beneficiary suggestions as the base for project planning.
All activities that might likely have an adverse impact on the environment
would be referred to and cleared by the responsible environmentalist at the
PIU.
3.24      Each draft annual plan would be referred to the appropriate zilla
parishads (local councils) for their views. The views of the zilla parishad
in the selection of activities and sites for works would be given due
consideration in finalizing an annual plan. Each final plan would then be
discussed by the Project Coordinating Committee and approved. The approved
plan would form the basis for budget preparation. Agreement was obtained at
negotiations that the GOA would cause staff of implementing departments and
agencies to interact and agree with beneficiaries in the choice, location,
design, preparation, and implementation of activities supDorted under the
proiect.
3.25      Because the project would have funds for the identification of
project-related studies for implementation by consultants or
NGOs, the studies would be part of the annual plan, with agreed Terms of
Reference. These studies would be cleared by the Project Coordination
Committee and the Bank before implementation.
Budgeting
3.26      The project would have a separate budget "head" and "subhead" for
each implementing department and agency. Performance budgeting would be
introduced to relate expected physical performance with the funds budgeted for
each implementing agency. The performance budget would be the main document
for project implementation review. The project director would organize
training in performance budget formulation and use for all concerned staff.



-28-
Once the budget is approved, the APC/PD would hold one or several meetings of
the Project Coordination Committee before the beginning of the fiscal year to
approve project activities.
3.27      The project would establish a special fund for promoting and
supporting innovative schemes consistent with project goals. The fund would
be operated by the Project Implementation Unit with the assistance of the
Project Coordination Committee and the NGO cell. Along with government
agencies, women's groups, NGOs, and farmer organizations would also
have access to the fund. The PCC would establish guidelines for securing
assistance from the fund within the first six months of project commencement.
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.28      The PIU would regularly monitor project implementation progress and
correct any deficiencies. The project director supported, by consultants,
would be responsible for (a) identifying, through baseline surveys, target
groups of low-income beneficiaries for project activities, and (b) developing
an appropriate monitoring and evaluation system for delivery of management
information on implementation and performance through monitorable indicators
from the field. Data for assessing project development objectives would also
be collected through baseline surveys. Computer facilities would be provided
to help the PIU carry out this task. The consultants would also design a
training program for PIU staff. A matrix of monitorable indicators for
achievement of project objectives is presented in Annex 16.
Revorting. Mid-Term Review, and Project Implementation Report
3.29      Progress reports would be prepared by individual implementing
departments/agencies annually and submitted to the Project Guidance Committee
and Project Coordination Committee for clearance and consolidation by PIU
before being sent to the Bank, no later than 90 days after the end of each
fiscal year. Each report would contain brief descriptions of the main events
of the reporting period including progress of physical implementation,
expenditures incurred, staffing status, procurement, and force account
arrangements. These reports would compare actual data with targets of the
indicative plans and annual work programs. In addition, the GOA would submit
a copy of its annual project plan, state agricultural budget, and procurement
plan including civil works once every year (end of June) for Bank review and
comment.
3.30      An independent consultant would carry out a mid-term review of the
project at the end of the fourth year of implementation. The Review would
focus on progress made, take stock of the experience gained in implementing
individual components of the project, and evaluate problems associated with
participatory planning and implementation with beneficiaries. Agreed
recommendations of the mid-term review would be implemented by each
agency/department involved.  AQreement was obtained at neqotiations that the
GOA would, with the assistance of consultants. carry out a Mid-Term Review of
the project by June 30. 1999. (fourth year of proiect implementation) and
implement the recommendations of the mid-term review.



-29-
3.31      The PIU would prepare an implementation completion report on the
basis of the Bank's guidelines no later than six months after the closing date
of the credit. The report would highlight physical and financial problems
faced during implementation and assess the impact of the project to determine
whether the objectives were achieved.
Pro-ect Supervision
3.32      Project supervision would be closely linked to the project
objectives and the annual implementation plans. It would involve monitoring a
number of key indicators and assessing both quality and quantity aspects of
project implementation and their impact.
3.33      Heads of participating line departments would supervise project
implementation and provide guidance. In addition, the PIU would oversee
supervision of project activities to assess field implementation progress and
problems, involvement of beneficiary participation, and impact. The Bank
would normally field two missions in a year to focus primarily on key
implementation issues. The first mission would concentrate on detailed review
of the Annual work plan at the onset of the budget year; the second would
resolve problems, assess benefits, and draw lessons. However, full
responsibility for project supervision would rest with implementing line
departments and the PIU. Proposed experts on supervision missions are
presented in Annex 15.
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
4.1       The proposed project would contribute to the GOA's objectives for
poverty alleviation and to improve equity in the rural areas. It also would
accelerate agricultural growth through improved use of resources. The policy
reforms to be carried out through the project would lead to the allocation of
resources to high-priority investments for agricultural and rural development.
4.2       Specifically, the project would benefit about 300,000 poor rural
people by directly increasing their average annual net income from farming
alone by about 60%, from Rs 2,950 to Rs 4,720.1 In addition, while improving
the community assets, the construction works would generate about 75 million
man-days of seasonal and nonfarm employment through the road, fisheries, and
irrigation infrastructure supported under the project.2 Furthermore, the
nutrition of the rural population would be improved through increased
production of fish, fruit and vegetables, and milk.
1 Based on the average farm size (0.8 ha) of the majority (60%) of
area farmers.
2 Para 2.27 (procurement of works) and para 1.14 (labor rates).



-30-
4.3       The project would improve communication, increase crop production,
employment opportunities, and rural incomes, and create sustainable production
assets. A network of 1,400 km of rural roads would be constructed, upgraded,
and maintained. Water would be made available to irrigate 49,000 ha of land
and increase the current cropping intensity of 140% by about 15% annually, to
reach 210% cropping intensity by the end of the project period. Rice
production would be improved by providing quality seeds, thereby increasing
marketable surplus. As a result of increased cropping intensity, higher
yields, and livestock and fisheries activities, annual employment in the
project areas would increase by about 3 million man-days at full
development.3 The project also would introduce an integrated management
system in planning and implementation, promote user group and NGO involvement
in the development process, and sensitize people to environmental issues.
4.4       Production and Marketing.  The project would increase the
production of food crops (rice, oilseeds, and pulses), fruits and vegetables,
milk, and fish. The bulk of the incremental food grain production would be
from irrigation schemes, including both new and rehabilitated schemes.
4.5       The following projected yield levels under the project are
conservative and attainable:
Present Yields 4         Future Yields with Proiect
(tons per ha)                  (tons per ha)
Paddy             2.5                             4.0
Mustard            0.5                            0.8
Potato           10.0                            15.0
Gram               0.5                            0.8
4.6       With irrigation, the cropping intensity would increase by about
451. Assuming the above conservative crop yields, the project would increase
the production of paddy, mustard, potatoes, and gram by 132,000, 5,000, 9,000,
and 5,000 tons, respectively, at full development about 10 years after the
start of the project. Crop and farm budgets under the present situation and
with improved irrigation intensity, presented in Annex 11, were used in the
computation of incremental value of production.
4.7       The rural population in Assam currently suffers frequent food
shortages mainly because of the weak resource base, including a poor
agricultural technology base. Most of the incremental production would be
consumed on the farm. A small portion (about lo) is expected to be sold in
3 Excludes direct employment in project works.
4 It was assumed that present yields would remain constant in the
without-project situation because there are no data to
illustrate either a declining or an increasing trend.



-31-
neighboring markets, which would be more accessible with improvements to the
rural road system. Increasing surplus production, mainly fish, milk, fruit,
and vegetables, would be sold in the well-established existing markets.
Economic Analysis
4.8       Individual rates of return for the irrigation, livestock,
horticulture, fisheries, and rural roads subcomponents and for the project as
a whole were estimated. The economic life of the project was assumed to be 30
years because of the types of investments involved. The institutional
development component was not evaluated, although its costs were included in
the overall economic evaluation of the project. Because of the
pilot nature of the land administration subcomponent, no rate of return (ERR)
was calculated. The economic and financial analyses are presented in Annex
11.
4.9       Irrigation.  Benefits were estimated on the basis of incremental
production of paddy, pulses, potatoes, and oilseeds. Economic prices
(constant end-1994) for these crops were derived from World Bank commodity
price projections issued in August 1994. Given the projected stagnation in
food grain production, India was assumed to be a marginal net importer.
Therefore, import parity prices, after adjusting for port handling and local
transport, were used in the analysis. Prices used are presented in Annex 1.
(tables 25 and 26). Irrigation facilities would also support summer and
winter production of vegetables, whose marketing would be enabled by the
project road network.
4.10      Rural Roads. Benefits of this component include reduced vehicle
operating costs and incremental portage and labor resulting from saved travel
time on upgraded roads. These estimates were derived from traffic surveys and
projections on selected roads undertaken by the Public Works Department and
confirmed by the Bank. Unquantifiable benefits from roads would include
increased incidence of literacy with greater access to schools, accessibility
to medical and health care facilities, accessibility to post offices and mini-
banks, and employment opportunities in road construction and maintenance.
4.11      Livestock.  Because of improvements to the breeding stock, milk
production would increase from the present 640 million liters per year to 780
million liters at full development. In addition, the protein intake of the
rural population would improve as a result of the project.
4.12      Fisheries. The project would increase fish production by about
3,000 tons annually. As a result rural incomes and nutritional value of food
intake would increase. Because of increased fish production, the market price
of fish is expected to fall to affordable levels, particularly for urban
dwellers with low incomes.



-32-
4.13      Horticulture.  As a result of crop diversification to high-value
horticultural crops, about 8,250 hectares of marginal lands would be used for
production of arecanut, coconut, papaya, bananas, and oranges. With improved
yields, total annual incremental production is estimated to be 85,000 tons,
which would be marketed readily using improved roads. In addition, backyard
gardens for vegetable production would increase.
4.14      Project economic costs were derived from detailed cost tables
(summarized in Annex 5, tables 1 to 5), excluding taxes and price
contingencies. After the implementation period, recurrent costs were
maintained at a constant level for the economic life of the project. It was
assumed that Vehicles and machinery and equipment associated with road
maintenance would be replaced every five years. Because rural roads yield
benefits to sectors other than agriculture that could not be estimated, only
one-half of the cost of road construction and maintenance was included in the
economic evaluation. On-farm production costs were derived from crop budgets
(Annex 11, tables 1 to 18), with assumed conservative and gradual yield
increases and adoption of improved farming practices as a result of
availability of production inputs such as irrigation water, fertilizers, and
pesticides.
4.15      Recurrent costs for fish and livestock production were estimated
from individual enterprise budgets used in the ERR. All local costs
(including market prices for locally traded products such as milk, fish,
fruits, and vegetables) were converted to border values by using a standard
conversion factor of 0.9. ERRs for irrigation, roads, livestock, fisheries,
and horticulture activities were estimated to be 57%, 33%, 21%, 22%, and 66%,
respectively. The ERR for the project as a whole was estimated to be 24%,
which is a weighted average of the individual components' ERRs. The net
present value of the project, discounted at the opportunity cost of capital of
12%, is estimated to be Rs 2,423 million (US$78 million).
4.16      Sensitivity Analyses. Tests were performed on the ERR of the
project as a whole. Cost overruns and delays in accrued incremental benefits
could occur, notwithstanding built-in safeguards in the project. Certain
assumptions were introduced in the analysis and sensitivity tests performed.
Results are summarized below:
Test Variations                             ERR          NPV
(Rs M)
Base Case                                   24%          2,423
Benefits down 10%                           22%          1,946
Benefits down 15t                           21%          1,707
Costs up 10%                                22%          2,188
Benefits lagged 2 years                     18%          1,381
Benefits down 10% and costs up 10%          20%          1,711



4.17      The overall project ERR is reasonably robust to increases in costs
and reductions in benefits. Nevertheless, special arrangements, such as
identification and preparation of the first-year program, including
retroactive financing, have been made to accelerate start-up activities and
minimize implementation delays.
4.18      SwitchinQ value tests show that project costs would have to
increase by more than 110% or benefits would have to drop by more than SO0 for
the NPV to fall to zero or the ERR to fall to 12%. The intensive preparation
and detailed work in estimating the cost of individual items make these
situations unlikely. Further more, conservative estimates of yields and
production were used in evaluating the benefits.
Environmental Impact
4.19      An environmental analysis of the project was carried out by
reviewing each component using guidelines in the Bank's Operational Directive
4.0. Based on this analysis, the project was categorized as "B" (Annex 18).
The project would have an overall positive impact on the environment through
improvement of agricultural practices and land management. The Project
Implementation Unit would hire an environmentalist who would have
responsibility for developing and implementing guidelines for monitoring all
project activities for potential negative environmental impact and advising on
mitigating measures. If necessary, technical assistance would be sought from
government agencies, such as the Pollution Control Board (for water quality
monitoring), the Department of Science, Technology, and Environment, and the
Assam Council for Science, Technology, and the Environment.
4.20      The only possible negative environmental impact of the project
could be soil erosion caused by road construction. To minimize this
possibility, the project was designed with appropriate mitigating actions.
These actions include:
(a) sensitizing government staff and user groups to the hazards of poor
environmental protection;
(b) minimizing, and in some cases avoiding, land acquisition and
penalizing road projects with negative environmental effects in a
screening process; and
(c) monitoring the incidence of disease and destroying vector breeding
areas, for example cleaning ponds for fish production to eliminate
breeding grounds for mosquitoes and vectors for malaria parasites.
Imoact on Women
4.21      Women in Assam play a major role in agriculture and appear eager to
be involved in new income-generating activities, but they lack resources and



-34-
technical knowledge to initiate and sustain new enterprises. The GOA's
organized support services for women are largely directed toward welfare and
child care. In an effort to reverse the trend, socially oriented NGOs are
actively involved in training more women in the skills needed to participate
in economic activities. The need to create more jobs for women is even
greater in the wage labor market in Assam where they are poorly represented.
Of the total employment of 1 million at the end of March 1989, less than 0.3
million, or 301, were women.
4.22      The productive role of women varies significantly in the project
area depending on the economic status of each family in the village. The vast
majority of women do a significant amount of manual work, including building
road, collecting fuel wood, marketing farm produce, and performing household
chores. women are also responsible for ensuring adequate nutrition for their
families. Therefore, investments under the project such as improvement in the
infrastructure (rural roads), and the production of livestock, fish, fruits,
and vegetables would contribute to the welfare of women. Involving female
beneficiaries in project planning, including selection of activities and their
location, would give them an opportunity to express their views on those
issues that affect them most. Also, women in the project area would save
travel time to perform household errands, which could be deployed for more
productive and lucrative purposes. Women would also benefit from increased
incomes from milk and fish production. In general, women laborers would
benefit from significantly enhanced employment opportunities.
4.23      To ensure that women participate actively in the design, planning
and, implementation of project activities, a position for a women's
development officer would also be created in the Project Implementation Unit.
This officer would be an active member of the project management and would
ensure that the project provides women with appropriate training in awareness
of their role and benefits, organization and management and technical skills
(see Annex 10). Support would also be provided to women's groups for
innovative economic initiatives consistent with project objectives.
Cost Recoverv
4.24      Full cost recovery from beneficiaries for all activities would not
be feasible under this project because of the high incidence of poverty and
the extent of subsidies in the project area. However, because the GOA's
budgetary resources are constrained and would not be able to ensure
sustainability of investments in the project area, cost recovery would be
introduced. For investments including fisheries development in farmers'
ponds, community tanks, shallow tube wells and introductory horticultural
production, beneficiaries would be required to pay a proportion of the cost of
establishment.
4.25      During the construction period, beneficiaries organized into users
groups or individual farmers would contribute at least 30% of the investment
cost of any irrigation scheme, fish pond, or community fish tank. This



- 35-
contribution could be direct cash payment or in-kind payment (e.g., labor).
After the construction phase, the assets would be transferred to beneficiaries
who would be responsible for the full O&M cost. For large fish beels, the
full cost of construction would be recovered from the private or cooperative
operators, who would also be responsible for repair and maintenance of the
fish assets leased to them. Regarding seedlings for horticultural development
and artificial insemination for the livestock improvement program,
beneficiaries would pay over time the full cost of the material and service.
4.26      Incremental income from project investments would justify such cost
recoveries. Because beneficiaries would be involved in the project planning
process, including selection of activities and their location, and would own
and operate some of these assets, they would have the incentive to collect
user charges from their fellow members to extend the usefulness of their
assets.
Sustainability
4.27      Once completed, project activities would be sustained.  Incremental
staffing would be kept to the minimum, and additional recurrent costs would be
within manageable limits. Most of the assets created by the project would be
transferred to the beneficiaries, who would operate the assets and share the
cost of operation and maintenance. Production assets in horticulture,
fisheries, and livestock would be supported through ongoing research and
extension services. Local NGOs would continue to support water user groups in
managing tube wells and ponds constructed under the project. The improved
policy environment, especially for marketing and processing, would provide
financial incentives for the groups to maintain their newly acquired assets.
Rural roads would be maintained by the GOA out of its state budget; through
the project, the GOA would have prepared a state policy and financing
arrangements for road repair and maintenance [para 2.15(b)].
Risks
4.28      The project faces four major risks:
(a) Funding. Poor budgetary support could slow down implementation.
To minimize the risk, the GOA would submit an annual budget and
commit itself to improve cost recovery and establish adequate
financial control measures that would be monitored during project
implementation. Funding needed for O&M would be the responsibility
of the beneficiaries. Pace of implementation, quality of
construction, and delivery of services would be monitored by local
NGOs and reported to concerned agencies every six months.
(b) Policy Reform and Commitment. Timely and effective implementation
and adherence by the GOA to the agreed policy reforms are crucial
to the success of the project. To minimize the risk, tangible
proof of readiness to implement the reforms has already been



-36-
demonstrated in the preparation of the state agricultural strategy
paper and the steps already taken to implement the items described
in the policy matrix. Implementation of policy reforms would be
reflected in the GOA's annual work plans and budgets for Bank
review. There would be close Bank supervision to ensure that dated
covenants associated with the reforms are met. Despite the built-
in safeguards, however, implementation of policy reform could be
delayed or even modified due to political events. General
elections will be held in 1996, and the political scenario in the
country is changing fast. Announcements of populistic measures
involving hand-outs from public funds are increasing markedly. It
would be unrealistic to expect that Assam would not be influenced
by this political trend.
(c) Institutional Capacit . The success of the project depends on
active participation of local and national NGOs. There is the risk
that such participation may be slow to materialize, and government
bureaucracy may delay the transfer of new assets to the farming
communities. Also, institutional weakness could pose risks for
project implementation. Quality of works (construction and
maintenance of rural roads) could suffer from inadequate staffing,
supervision, and standard enforcement. To enhance quality of
construction, the project would provide technical assistance to
train and motivate staff.
(d) Security. The security situation in Assam may delay field visits,
implementation, and timely supervision and monitoring. Project
activities and investment programs would be restricted to areas
where security problems are minimal. Active involvement of
beneficiaries (FMCs, WUA, etc) in the decision-making process and
their ownership of the project should reduce the security risk.
4.29      With GOA's commitment and demonstrated support, and with built-in
safeguards for sustaining operations, the project has a chance of succeeding.
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.1       During negotiations the following agreements were obtained that the
GOA would:
(a) ensure that project implementing departments/agencies maintain
separate accounts for all components supported under the project
and implement proposed audit arrangements (para 2.33);
(b) contract with NGOs selected according to criteria agreed with the
Association to participate in project activities (para 3.8);
(c) maintain a Project Implementation Unit with staffing and
responsibilities agreed with the Association (para 3.9);



-37-
(d) maintain the Project Guidance Committee and the Project
Coordination Committee with membership and responsibilities agreed
with the Association (para 3.11);
(e) prepare and submit to the IDA by the end of March of each year
starting in 1996 annual work plans and budgets for the project
satisfactory to the Association (para 3.17);
(f) carry out land acquisition and resettlement and rehabilitation of
any people affected under the project in accordance with
arrangements and procedures agreed with the Association (para
3.22);
(g) ensure that implementing departments' and agencies' staff interact
with beneficiaries and agree on the choice, location, design,
preparation, and implementation of activities supported by the
project (para 3.24); and
(h) carry out with the assistance of consultants, a mid-term review by
June 30, 1999, (end of the fourth year of project implementation)
and implement the recommendations of the review (para 3.30).
Condition of Disbursement
5.2       Disbursement of Credit proceeds for rural road repair and
maintenance would be conditional to preparation of a road maintenance policy,
financing arrangements and an implementation plan satisfactory to the
Association [para 2.15(b)].
5.3       With the above assurances and agreements, the project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 81.0 million (US$126.0 million equivalent)
on standard terms with 35 years maturity.



-38-
Annex 1.
ASSAM RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
General Features of Assam
Irrigation
1.        The Brahmaputra valley covers 70t of the total area of the state.
Total food requi-rement by the year 2000 would be 6.3 million tons for the
state population of about 28.5 millions. The additional food requirement
would be about 2.5 million tons of which rice would account for about 2.2
million tons. To increase future rice production sufficient to feed the
projected population, the cropping intensity must be enhanced to more than. 200
t by extending irrigation.
2.        Most of the rain in Assam falls between May/June and
September/October. As a consequence, supplementary irrigation during the dry
months becomes necessary if cropping intensity is to be increased. Under
normal circumstances, floods affect about 0.4 million ha annually. It is
estimated that 0.3 million ha of cropped areas are flood prone, though
occasionally about one million ha are affected by floods. As a result,
farmers in the flood prone areas need a winter crop with irrigation to sustain
themselves.
3.        Out of the total geographic area of about 7.8 million ha, total
cultivable area is about 2.7 million ha. Surface water potential is 1.7
million ha consisting of about one million ha under major/medium projects and
the rest under minor projects. Total ground water potential is estimated to
be one million ha, accounted for by 5,000 deep tube wells -DTWs-(0.2 million
ha), 241,700 shallow tube wells-STWs-(0.7 million ha) and 141,000 dug wells
(less than 0.1 million ha). However out of 1142 existing DTWs only about 620
or 54% are operating at less than 25% efficiency. The poor performance of
these DTWs is partly caused by frequent power-cuts in the agricultural areas.
In most cases power supply is provided for 2-3 hours per day instead of the
required time of 6-8 hours.   Because of the poor supply of electricity, GOA
does not plan to develop new DTWs during the next decade.
4.        In the case of STWs, about 49,735 have been installed by the Assam
State Minor Irrigation Development Corporation (ASMIDC) through a NABARD
refinanced scheme. Due to poor recovery of the loans from farmers, the
outstanding repayments with ASMIDC have become unmanageable (Rs 403 million).
As a result, ASMIDC virtually stopped all STW activities in the state. To
continue- the program, the Agriculture Department took over the task of
installing STWs through the Community Irrigation Project (CIP) supported by
GOI subsidy scheme, which has also stopped for lack of resources and poor
performance.
5.        Other problems associated with the supply of electricity to the
irrigation schemes are those of overdue payments. As of 1994, the Irrigation
Department owed Assam State Electricity Board (ASEB) about Rs 102 million.
About 30t of the overdue is accounted for by public DTWs and 70t by Surface
Lift schemes (SLs). Some of the overdue amounts are a result of "flat rate"



-39-
charges imposed by ASEB on irrigation schemes irrespective of the power
consumed. It is a practice for ASEB to charge Rs.30/month/unit for the DTWs
and Sls even when no power was consumed.   Despite the inadequate billing
system, ASEB is planning to increase power rates for agriculture from Rs 0.88
to Rs 1.60/unit due to the high cost of generation which is about Rs.
2.61/unit. The proposed increase would make electricity rates in the state
uniform with those for domestic consumers, currently paying Rs. 1.61/unit.
6.        Because there was no mechanism in place for collection of water
charges, the revenue collected by the Irrigation Department has always been
negligible. To correct the problem, GOA issued a notification in June 1992 to
fix and collect water charges from beneficiaries of all irrigation schemes.
The per hectare irrigation charges for a Kharif crop is Rs. 140.62, Wheat Rs.
281.25, Early Ahu and Ahu Rs. 375.50. Total charges per annum amount to Rs.
797.37 per hectare. These charges are less than the actual cost of
irrigation. It is estimated the annual cost of irrigating one hectare is
about Rs. 1310 for STWs, Rs 2449 in the case of DTWs, Rs 4324 for Surface
lifts(Sls), and Rs 2508 for diversion schemes.
7.        With-electricity, the irrigation cost per hectare per annum is
estimated to be Rs 870 for STW, Rs 1550 for DTW, and Rs 1258 for Sls. In the
case of diesel pumps the cost is estimated to be Rs 1740, Rs 3560, and Rs 3200
per hectare per annum respectively. For diversion schemes it would be Rs 704
per ha per annum. These amounts exclude the establishment cost of the
Irrigation Department, which is estimated to be Rs. 200 per hectare per annum.
B.        The Central Ground Water Board has estimated through its 462 work
stations the annual recharge of ground water in the valley. The hydrographs
show a peak followed by a recession limb. The recession limb in the post
monsoon period is steep during August to October months and gentle during
NJovember - April. The steep limb indicates that whatever the rise in the
groundwater level, a major part dissipates during the monsoon period
maintaining a constant level on average through out the year. Recharges based
on pre-as well as post-monsoon levels have been used to estimate the district
wise annual recoverable recharge. Existing data has established that aquifers
get fully recharges by July - August and additional water in the ground goes
as reject recharge.
Roads
9.        Excluding National highways and those main roads whose improvement
is funded by the North East Council (NEC), there is a network of about 7,300
km of surfaced roads and 23,700 km of graveled roads maintained by the state
PWD. There is also a total length of about 148,000 m of timber bridges.
Chronic under funding of road maintenance which has persisted for many years
(about one third of the Finance Commission's recommended level of funding has
been actually budgeted) has caused the road network to be in a distressful
condition. Most of these roads are long overdue for rehabilitation and a
large number of the timber bridges have long past their economic life and are
in a dangerous condition.



-40-
10.       In addition to the PWD-maintained network of roads, there is
another network of roads comprising about 7,200 km at the village level in the
rural areas, built by the District Rural Development Agency (DRDA). These
roads are vital as they link small villages with the State road network.
These roads were labor-intensively built, partly as a means of employment
generation, but were not in compliance with accepted specifications. As a
result, PWD has been reluctant to assume responsibility for their maintenance.
11.       It is important to note however, that most roads in Assam were not
built according to designed specifications particularly in regard to
embankment placement and compaction. This initial construction deficiency has
been compounded over the years by lack of maintenance funds (for example: over
the last four years, the budget allocation for road maintenance has been
declining from 23% of the required amount to about 9%.), thereby causing a
deplorable condition of the entire road network in the state.
Land holding and Cropping Pattern
12.       The average farm size of 1.3 hectares is the smallest in the
country and declining. Despite the small land holdings, they are further
fragmented into 3-4 parcels making them uneconomic units to support the
average family size of five. The cropping pattern which is dominated by paddy
of long maturity periods tends to limit the cropping intensity to less than
145 percent. Given the high rainfall in the area, this cropping intensity is
also considerably low.
Rural Credit
13.       Lack of access to credit by small-entrepreneurs and small farmers
tends to perpetuate poverty. For farmers to have flexibility in the risky
farming environment, they need access to production inputs and sufficient
income or credit to acquire them.
14.       In the case of Assam, because of small land holdings, poor land
record keeping by the revenue office and the lengthy process of granting loans
by commercial banks, the majority of small farmers do not qualify for credit.
The few who qualify do not repay their loans promptly. As a result, small
farmers fail to adopt new agricultural technology, such as the use of
fertilizer and hybrid seed, which could be facilitated through credit.
Fisheries Development
15.       The potential for fish production in Assam is enormous with an
estimated area of over 300,000 hectares of water bodies, including rivers,
beels, tanks and ponds, swamps and a reservoir. The current annual production
is estimated to be 150,000 tons against actual demand of over 250,000 tons.
The present per capita consumption of fish is estimated to be 6-7 kilograms,
which is well below the nutritional requirement of about 10-12 kilograms per
capita. Because of the high demand of fish in the state, the price of fish
ranges between Rs. 40-60 per kilogram, which is relatively high for most
consumers.



-41-
Horticulture
16.       Assam has a great potential for expansion of horticultural
production. Out of net cultivable area of 2.7 million hectares less than 20
percent is under horticultural crops, mostly grown as homestead gardens.
Commercial cultivation of horticultural crops faces a numDer of constraints
includipig poor quality of planting material, long gestation ppriods of common
species in the area, heavy initial investment, lack of
technical packages, inadequate extension service, weak post-harvest
infrastructure and poor roads and transportation system for marketing.
Livestock Development
17.       Despite the large population of livestock in Assam (estimated to be
7.5 million of which more than one million could be improved), its               -
productivity is low mainly because of the poor genetic potential and
inadequate nutrition.  To increase annual milk and meat production from about
640 million liters and 13,000 tons respectively, the GOA existing program is
designed to improve the indigenous dairy cattle by cross-breeding with exotic
animals.  GOA believes this can be achieved through a combination of the use
of purchased frozen pure Jersey semen, bulls of exotic breed and a 50 t
Jersey-indigenous frozen semen from elite local bulls.
Extension service
18.       Provision of agricultural extension service in the state is the
responsibility of the Department of Agriculture. The department functions
through Agricultural Extension Officers in-charge of districts and subject
matter specialists and local level cadres, Village Level Extension Workers
(VLEWs). The extension system applied is that of Training and Visit (T&V)
promoted and supported by the Bank through the National Agricultural Extension
Projects. Though the schematic arrangement of the provision of extension
service is impressive, the Training and Visit (T&V) system has become
ineffective because of the growing multi-function responsibility of the
extension agents contrary to the concept of the system itself. Additionally,
the system lacks viable technological messages to convey to the farmer.
19.       The training program for extension workers is based on simple
repetitive messages, which are only appropriate for promoting technological
packages of a single crop.  The training is not responsive to needs of
diversification at the farm level.  Extension workers need to be trained to
deliver multiple messages, advise on a large variety of crops and provide
market information, all in the same regular visits.
20.       In Assam, VLEWs are assisted by multi-purpose Field Management
Committees (FMC) covering 2-3 villages. So far, there are more than 10,000
registered FMCs in the state responsible for over 22,000 villages.
To improve the effectiveness of the extension service, GOA plans to use FMCs
as probe groups to keep the department activities on the right track and
ensure farmers' involvement in planning and implementation of agricultural
schemes. Using a group approach would be a new dimension of using extension
service as a broad based tool for technology transfer.



-42-
Public Expenditure
21.       Tue objective of the state development plan was to reduce the
incidence of poverty from 52% of the population living below the poverty line
in 1978 to 23% in 1990 and-10% by 1995. Additionally, the plan was to reduce
the rural population dependent on agriculture (currently estimated to be 70%
of the population) to small scale industries by 10-15S. To achieve this, GOA
decided to direct public expenditure to rural development activities.
22.       Though physical and financial targets were achieved by 1992, the
incidence of poverty remained unchanged. Development expenditure was diverted
to provide short-term relief, including employment generating activities and
support to rural programs. Effective programs could not be promoted due to
weaknesses in the implementation machinery.
23.       The focus of implementation of the rural programs was directed
towards providing financial assistance to as many people as possible without
regard to the long-term objective of poverty reduction. More effective
monitoring and control systems were not in place to ensure the need for
increasing the productive capacity of the target groups. Basically, the
financial assistance was used as unemployment allowances for the rural
population.
24.       Because of the short term objectives of the programs, there was a
significant increase in revenue expenditure, crowding out expenditure for
capital formation across all sectors, including agriculture. In most cases,
subsidies accounted for most of the revenue expenditure increase. The growth
in expenditure was also caused by increased salaries and wages and to a
limited extent, increases in operation and maintenance of fixed assets. The
extent of subsidies varied between 50 and 100% depending on -the type of
activity and source of finance. Activities supported by GOI were fully
subsidized and those by GOA were paid for by beneficiaries up to 50% of the
cost.
25.       Despite the high subsidy rates for crop production inputs, such as
seeds of high yielding varieties (HYV) and fertilizers, their up take remained
low partly because of the limitations on the quantity handled by licensed
distributors. The process of obtaining licenses was also long and cumbersome.
License holders are required to maintain separate registers for subsidized
inputs which are sold at fixed prices set by government. Invariably, these
prices do not cover local transport and handling expenses and bank charges,
including interest on borrowed funds for input purchases. Even depreciation
and profit margins were not factored in the price estimate.
26.       Though part of the revenue expenditure was for O&M, more than 50%
of the increase went to salaries and wages. As a result, public assets in the
state continue to deteriorate for lack of adequate maintenance. The
Integrated Rural Development Projects (IRDP) are given priority in state
budgets for two main reasons. Firstly, the projects are supported by the
central government and are a source of funds for the state, and secondly these
projects are supposed to support families below the poverty line, which is
consistent with the overall state development objective. During the last five



-43-
year development plan, more than 80% of the actual expenditure in the state
was allocated to rural development projects. For example, in 1991/92 alone,
about 83t of the budget or an equivalent of Rs. 172 million was spent on rural
development related activities.
27.   -   Despite large sums of money are spent on rural programs, the
quality of life of the target group continued to decline. Also, financing
from the center, which is expected to cover more than 50% of the IRDP budget,
was not released as planed, causing additional strain on the state budget
leading to unfinished projects.
Sources of State Revenue
28.       Public funds in the state include receipts from cost recoveries,
grants, loans, cess and surcharges, taxes and non-tax sources. Cost recovery
for various sectors has remained low for many years. There have been no water
charges paid by farmers from public irrigation schemes and new tariffs set for
power have been introduced recently. The mechanism for cost recovery is
basically non existent.
Center and State Financing
29.       Public expenditure in the agriculture and allied sectors is
allocated in plan and non-plan schemes, central sector schemes and central
sponsored schemes. State plan and non plan schemes are entirely financed by
the state budget while central sector schemes are wholly funded by the central
government. In the centrally sponsored schemes, the proportion of central and
state funds varies between schemes and sectors. Some of the central sponsored
activities are supported by loans and grants specifically assigned to those
schemes.
30.       Most of the expenditure in the state plan and non-plan schemes is
supported by the state budget. However, capital expenditure is shared between
the state and the center depending on the type of scheme concerned. In
general, revenue has tended to be smaller than expenditure. It is worthy
noting that whenever expenditure was incurred from a loan amount, this was
provided for in the state plan. In most cases, loans were used to finance
schemes in the crop husbandry sector. Only in exceptional cases were loan
funds used to finance dairy and fisheries development activities.   It was
clear in the analysis of the public expenditure in the state that the
composition of expenditure was highly variable and showed no trend. This out
come underscores the poor quality of planning and resource allocation
mechanism in the state government bureaucracy.
Public Enterprises
31.       Most public enterprises in agriculture and allied sectors fail to
accomplish their stated objectives. They are more involved in activities
outside their jurisdiction. Their financial performance has also been
unsatisfactory. The operating expenses-have out stripped revenue. The
management of the working capital has also been inadequate, maintaining high
levels of slow moving inventories and poor collection rates of receivables.



-44-
Most of thexe organizations have poor gearing ratios exhibiting high debt
equity ratios and are involved in non-profitable operations. Because of the
poor performance, many _enterprises have survived through massive infusion of
public funds in the form of grants and loans from government.
32.       Despite vast fertile agricultural land and abundant rainfall over
the successive plan periods, Assam continues to remain economically backward
and poor. The state imports food grains equivalent to Rs.7,000 million
annually. This amount could be invested in the state for further development
if the state was self sufficient in food grains.
Subsidies
33.       The state government spends large sums of money in providing
subsidies to farmers f6r agricultural inputs including, fertilizers,
irrigation water, electricity and credit. During 1990 alone, GOA spent more
than Rs. 100 million on subsidies for seed, fertilizer and farm implements.
However; from the 1970s, fertilizer has continued to be subsidized by GOI
through a nationwide fertilizer subsidy scheme. In addition to the general
subsidy for these inputs, GOA provides special subsidies for fertilizers,
seeds, farm machinery, small implements to identified needy farmers through
various state agricultural development programs.
34.       The main target group for these special subsidies include marginal
and small farmers. The subsidy rates range between 25% for small implements,
50t for fertilizers and 100t for irrigation water. The selection of the
marginal and small farmers depends on their "land based economic identity",
which creates a latitude for abuse by administrators of the subsidy program.
35.       A separate study (Impact of Subsidies on Agricultural Development
in Assam by the state Agricultural University) established that, withdrawal of
subsidies in agriculture would lead to insignificant drop in the State
Domestic Product. However, given the high opportunity cost of capital in the
state due to scarcity of resources, the marginal return on investment for the
subsidy amount in other activities would be enormous.
Agricultural Inputs
36.       Fertil"ii.  Nitrogenous fertilizers in Assam are manufactured by
Public Corporations which also market about 80% of their production through
sister organizations in Guwahati, the state capital. Though the remaining
quantity of fertilizer is distributed by private dealers under license, the
price of fertilizer is still controlled and set by government. Because of the
subsidy element in the pricing structure of the fertilizer, and the laborious
procedures for obtaining licenses, private distributors are discouraged from
handling this commodity, particularly in remote areas where distribution costs
are relatively high.
37.       Assam farmers consume the lowest quantity of fertilizers in the
country. Between 1987 and 1992, fertilizer consumption averaged 8 kilograms
per hectare, with the highest level attained in 1991 mainly due to extenxive
campaign including increased subsidy from 10 to 20 percent of the fertilizer



-45-
price. Other factors limiting the use of fertilizer in the state is the poor
infrastructure for input delivery and inadequate control of water for
irrigation. It is estimated only 20 percent of the cropped area is irrigated
annually.
38.   -   The responsibility for fertilizer procurement and distribution lies
with the public sector organizations (Assam Agro-Industries Development
Corporation-AAIDC, and STATFED). However, most of the fertilizer is diverced
to the tea plantations (preferred customers) leaving small quantities for food
grain production.  Though farmers understand the benefit of using fertilizers,
the product is either.not available when required or it is the wrong type when
delivered. This situation is caused by liquidity problems of the state
government which is unable to finance fertilizer procurement, and the poor
market analysis by public sector corporations handling fertilizers
distribution, to determine actual demand.
39.       Seeds.  As for HYV, the level of adoption has also lagged behind
mainly because of unavailability of suitable early maturing varieties of
cereals including paddy which is the main grain crop. Because of the special
climate and soils in the state, agricultural technologies including improved
crop varieties developed in other parts of the country have proven to be
unsuitable in Assam.
40.       The government of Assam established the Assam Seeds Corporation
late in 1960s to produce and distribute seeds in the state. The corporation
produces certified and foundation seeds in its own farms and distributes it
through the Department of Agriculture. However, in exceptional cases, it sub-
contracts registered private growers to produce certified paddy seed. As in
the case of fertilizers, subsidies discourage private dealers from handling
seed as well.
41.       The responsibility for breeder seed production lies exclusively
with the Assam Agricultural University (AAU). Though certified seed is
produced by ASC, Department of Agriculture and private seed growers, its
certification is done by another agency, the Assam State Seed Certification
Agency (ASSCA). Nevertheless, the responsibility for seed procurement from
other states and agencies still lies with ASC. Actual distribution to farmers
is handled by village level farmers cooperative organizations (Gaon Panchayat
Samabay Samathi-GPSS). Because of the large number of players involved in the
seed industry, logistical problems render the system ineffective. Efforts to
strengthen seed production can not succeed unless the distribution system is
streamlined through the private sector.
Land Tenure
42.       Assam state introduced Land reform laws since India's independence
in 1947. Their objective was to protect share croppers from indiscriminate
eviction. The laws provide tenants the right of occupation and cultivation of
the land for 3-5 years. The laws also established crop-rent to be paid by
tenants.



-46-
43.       The state enacted Land Ceiling and Consolidation Acts to limit the
size of land holding for equity reason and provide economic units
for agricultural production. Because of the weak administrative structure and
poor land records, enforcing the laws is difficult.
44.   -   Also, Communal land laws exist which restrict unauthorized use of
open grazing lands for other purpose. The government charges grazing fees on
such lands. Because the rates charged are so low, there is no incentive for
farmers to reduce the population-of livestock and increase their productivity.
Marketing and Croo Movement
45.       The poor marketing infrastructure for agricultural produce in the
state is caused by underdeveloped transport and communication, inadequate
provision of institutional credit in rural areas, lack of market information
and inadequate storage facilities. As a result production of high value
crops, such as fruits and vegetables and increased production of grains is
hampered despite the existing potential.
46.       In an effort to improve the price of agricultural produce, GOA
established Regulated Markets for major crops, under the Assam Agricultural
Market Act of 1972. These markets provide facilities such as storage,
weighing scales, and act as produce collection centers for whole sale
marketing. Some of these centers are terminal markets for produce destined to
larger out of state markets. However, the poor marketing arrangements caused
mostly by government intervention, and sometimes the need for trans-shipment
at rail road terminals because of different rail gauges; high handling costs
reduce the final price paid to producers.
47.       Under the Essential Commodities Act, GOA has enacted laws
restricting movement of paddy, rice, pulses and oilseeds outside the state and
empowered public agencies to be sole buyers of such produce. The statutory
prices paid to growers are in most cases lower than market prices. Though the
objective of public control over marketable surplus was to eliminate price
fluctuations in the market and ensure availability of produce to consumers at
"reasonable price", the effort has nevertheless failed to abolish private
markets. Because of government controls, private dealers create artificial
scarcity of certain commodities to exploit consumers. In such an arrangement,
neither farmers nor consumers benefit from government intervention.
Aaro-Processina
48.     - Agro-processing of certain products is controlled by issuance of
licenses. The control includes basic commodities, such as rice mill, flour
mill, sugar mill, edible oils, refined rice bran oil, processed food
industries including biscuits, bakery products etc,. Similarly, fruit and
vegetable processing requires a license whose application must be made on a
prescribed form, with a long waiting period for approval.
49.       The Essential Commodities Act even prescribes methods of
preparation of beverages from pulp or extraction of juices from fully ripe and
sound fruits, etc. Even when licenses are issued at relatively high fees,



-47-
frequent government inspection discourages entrepreneurs from establishing
additional agro-processing units.



Annex 2
-48-
P.K. Bora                                ____~                 Addl. Chief Secretary
W                Agriculture Production Commissioner and
Special Commi.sioner & S;ecial Secretarv.
Agriculture. Veterinary. Fisbary. Paichayat Et
Rural Development. Revenue Departments.
Government of Assam. Dispur.
Guwahati-781 006.
No..AGA.438/93/Pt .I/
April 6, 1995
To     Mr. Heinz Vergin
Director India Department,
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Sub:   Assam-Rural Infrastructure and Agricultural Services Project
Dear Sir,
Government of Assam has been implementing economic develop
ment plans and schemes with special focus on agriculture and rural
development. Many of these programmes directly relate to alleviation
of poverty of the backward sections of the people. The programmes
are being Implemented with varying degrees of success. SOme of
these matters were discussed during the in-depth studies conducted
for the World Bank assisted Rural Infrastructure and Agricultural
Services Project.
After considering various aspects of the Govt. policies based
on our discussions and as analysed in the Agricultural Strategy
Paper, Government of Assam has approved the proposed reforms
as detailed in the attached Policy Matrix.
Yours sincerely,
( P.K. Bora )



NDIA
ASSAM-RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
MATRIX OF POLICY REFORMS
_ dii~ .                Measures                       Actions                   Iuple_etingAgency/Offieial
1. Crop                 (i) Promote private       (i) Issue government orders by       Mi) DOA (horticulture and
Diversification and   sector involvement in   the end of 1996 to invite               Extension).
private sector          the production of seed  private sector companies and
participation           and seedlings.            individuals to operate and
manage foundation and certified
seed multiplication farms and
horticultural nurseries
currently run by the Agriculture
Department and public agencies.
2. Subsidies and        (i) Define priority of  (i) Prepare a five-year plan by    (i) GOA (Planing and Finance
rationalization of      investment and           the end of 1996 to phase out GOA  Departs).
public expenditure      identify subsidies to   subsidies on agricultural
be  phased out.           inputs, except those for tribals
and scheduled castes covered by
special programs.
(ii) Promote private     (ii) Phase out subsidies for         (ii) GOA (DOA-Engineering
sector involvement in   farm machinery hire service           wing).
the farm machinery       offered by the Engineering Wing
hire service by          of the Department of Agriculture
introducing full cost   to encourage private sector
recovery from its        involvement, by the end of 1996.
clientele for similar
service provided by
the Engineering wing
of the Department of
Agriculture.



Policy                 Measures                        Actions                  I  plementing   ency/Official
3. Water-Resources      (i) Implement the         (i) Initiate implementation of    (i) Irrigation Department.
Irrigation Act of       the Irrigation Act of 1992 in
19920.                   1996, according to agreed plan
that would allow full cost
recovery of water from
beneficiaries, including the
cost of electricity for public
deep tube wells and lift
irrigation schemes.
(ii) Transfer            (ii) During 1996, issue              (ii) Irrigation Department.
ownership of public      government order to facilitate
irrigation assets,       transfer of new and
including surface        rehabilitated irrigation schemes
irrigation schemes,      under the project to
deep tube wells, etc.   beneficiaries.
to water users and
introduce a cess to                                                                                      y
recover their capital
cost.
(iii) Encourage          (iii) Encourage private and          (iii) Fisheries Department
private and              cooperative sector investment in
cooperative sector       fisheries development by
investment in            extending lease periods for
fisheries development.  water bodies from three to 7
years by issuing related
government orders during 1996.



Po' 1i -   - '   -    -Measurefi                      *tleg                     !InpI lementing  SenctY/Official
4. Public Sector        Phase out unprofitable  Prepare during 1996 a schedule        Chief Secretary, GOA
Undertakings            Public Sector             for phasing out non-viable
Undertakings.            public sector enterprises in
agriculture.
5. Sector               Rationalize              During 1996, assign                  Chief Secretary, GOA
Departments             Responsibility between  responsibility for fisheries
Departments              policy development to the
Department of Fisheries to
include all public water bodies.
/



-52-
Annex 3
Attachment 1
ASSAM-RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
RURAL ROADS
-  TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSULTANTS FOR CONTRACT SUPERVISION
Background
1.        The Government of India has applied for a Loan/Credit from the
World Bank/IDA on behalf of the Government of Assam for a Rural Infrastructure
and Agricultural Services Project (RIASP). The project would replace with
permanent materials unserviceable timber bridges and the upgrade rural/village
roads where improved access would enhance development of the agriculture
sector in general and the mobility of the rural population.  In concentrating
in high potential areas of the state, the selection of roads was limited to
only six districts, including: Lakhimpur, Darrang, Nagaon, Sibsagar, Kamrup
and Cachar.  The roads concerned would be constructed in trenches to be
completed over eight-years.
2.        The roads are to be constructed to geometric and pavement standards
for rural roads as prescribed in the publications of the Indian Roads
Congress. Bridges for village roads with low traffic would be single lane in
permanent materials. The project also provides for the maintenance of these
roads and bridges during the project period.
3.        The road works are divided into separate contract packages for each
district each costing about Rs. 20 to 30 million. The works are to be awarded
on the basis of the World Bank's standard LCB document as agreed between the
Bank and GOI. As is now standard for World Bank-funded road works elsewhere
in India the contract works are to be supervised by a consultant appointed in
compliance with the World Bank's Guidelines for the Procurement of
Consultants' Services. The PWD may wish to second selected staff to work
under the consultant's authority to gain experience, but this would be a
matter for mutual agreement. Should the consultant be expatriate, it may be
useful for that firm to take into joint venture a local firm, knowledgeable in
Indian conditions.
Obiectives
4.        The objectives of contract supervision through consultant services
would be to:
(a) ensure that the conditions of contract and specifications of the
works are administered by personnel whose experience in all the
aspects of the contract works and administration has been assured
in the consultant's proposal; and
(b) promote technology transfer to PWD staff who may be seconded or to
local consultants with whom joint venture arrangements may be made.



-53-
2
5.        The consultant will have overall responsibility for ensuring the
satisfactory progress and completion of the contracts' works in compliance
with the specifications and terms and conditions of the contract. Tenders for
the contract works will be invited by the Chief Engineer, PWD, Guwahati. The
consultant will prepare an evaluation report on the bids received for
submission to the Chief Engineer before the selection of the lowest evaluated
bidder has been made and the report award recommendations sent to the World
Bank for approval.
Definitions
Contractor:        is a person or firm whose tender for road and/or bridge
works under the RIASP is accepted by GOA and whose contract
has been signed.
Contract:          is the contract entered into between the State of Assam and
the contractor for execution of the project road/bridge
works.
Works:             means the economic assets to be constructed in accordance
with the contract.  nEconomic Asset  is deemed to include
any temporary structures or facilities, borrow pits and
quarries needed for that purpose.
Agreement:         means the agreement between the State of Assam and the
consultant for the engineering supervision of the contract.
Engineer:          means the consultant, Messrs. ..... ....... appointed under
the Agreement.
Engineer's
Representative:   means the representative employed by the Engineer with the
consent of the Employer to supervise the contract on site.
Employer:          means the State of Assam represented by the Chief Engineer,
PWD, Guwahati.
Duties and Responsibilities of the Enaineer
6.        The duties of the Engineer are to supervise the works and to
approve the materials and workmanship of the works in cooperation and
consultation with the Employer. He shall have no authority to relieve the
contractor of any of his duties or obligations under the Contract, nor to
order any work entailing delays or any extra payment by the employer.
7.        Accordingly, and subject to the prior approval of the Employer for
actions listed in Para 3 above, the principal responsibilities of the Engineer
would be to:
(a)  issue the order to the Contractor to commence;



-54-
(b) explain and/or adjust ambiguities and/or discrepancies in the
Contract Documents and to provide assistance to the Employer in the
settlement of disputes with the Contractor;
(c) review and verify the design of the contract works, to approve the
Contractor's working drawings and, if necessary, to issue further
drawings and/or to give instructions to the Contractor;
(d) approve data for the setting out of work;
Ce)  approve or to disapprove the Contractor s superintendence, key
personnel and/or construction program, land to be occupied by the
Contractor, materials and/or sources of materials;
(f) order special tests of materials and completed works if necessary
and/or removal and substitution of improper materials and/or of
work;
(g) control and appraise the progress of the works, to order the
suspension of works and to authorize extensions of the period for
completion of the Works;
(h) issue variation orders, to evaluate variations, to fix rates for
un-priced work and/or to make recommendations to the Employer
regarding alternatives;
(i) issue interim certificates for payment to the Contractor on the
basis of measured work items and to certify the completion of the
works or parts thereof; the interim and final measurements of work
recorded by the Engineeres representative shall be subject to a
percentage check by the employer-designated representative(s);
(j) inspect the works periodically, as well as during and after the
Maintenance Period and to issue the Maintenance Certificates after
the rectification by the Contractor of possible defects;
(k) carry out generally all the duties of the Engineer as specified in
the Contract within the limitations specified above;
(1) advise the Employer on all matters relating to claims from the
Contractor and to make recommendations thereon, including the
possible recourse to arbitration; and
(m)  prepare a maintenance manual for the project roads for guidance of
PWD/DRDA in carrying out future maintenance of these roads and
bridges.
Duties and Responsibilities of the Engineeres Reoresentative and staff
8.        The duties of the Engineeres representative and his staff are under
the overall control of the Engineer, to supervise construction of the works,



-55-
and to test or order to test and examine any materials to be used or
workmanship employed in connection with the Works.
9.        The principal responsibilities of the Engineeres Representative
would be to:
(a)  inspect the performance of the Works with regard to workmanship and
compliance with the specifications and to order, to supervise or
perform tests on materials and/or work and to approve or disapprove
the Contractor's plant and equipment;
(b)  order, if required, the uncovering of completed work and/or the
removal and substitution of improper materials and/or work;
(c) check systematically the progress of the Works and to order the
initiation of certain work which is part of the Contract;
(d) examine and attend the measurement of any work which is about to be
covered up or put out of view before permanent work is placed
thereon and/or to examine and attend the measurement of the
completed works in the prescribed form;
(e) check the Contractor's accounts, invoices, claims and other
statements with respect to arithmetical errors and compliance with
the Contractor and, if required, to make corrections thereof;
Cf) supervise the Contractor in all matters concerning safety and care
of the works and, if required, to request from the Contractor the
necessary lights, guards, fencing and watching;
(g) direct the Contractor to carry out all such work or to do all such
things as may be necessary in the opinion of the Engineer's
representative to avoid or to reduce the risk in case of any
emergency affecting the safety of life or of the Works or of
adjoining property and to advise the Employer thereof as soon
thereafter as is reasonably practicable;
(h) keep a day-to-day project diary, which shall record all events
pertaining to the administration of the Contract, requests from and
orders given to the Contractor, and any other information which may
at a later date be of assistance in resolving queries which may
arise concerning execution of the Works;
(i) carry out such duties under the terms of the Contract as may from
time to time be delegated in writing by the Engineer; and
(j) verify and correct the as-built drawings supplied by the
Contractor. The Engineer shall furnish the Employer with a full
list of all the responsibilities he will delegate to the Engineer's
Representative for supervision of the Contract in accordance with
the Agreement.



-56-
Working Arrangements
10.       The Chief Eng-ineer will depute the required number of engineers at
various levels to work under the control of the consultant on various sites
and the consultant will pay their remuneration (equal to salaries paid by GOA
plus Zn percent deputation allowance, or the salary prescribed by the
consultant, whichever is higher) regularly, including travelling allowances to
them directly, and to GOA their pension and gratuity contributions for the
period of deputation.
11.       The consultant can obtain a panel of names from CE, PWD to select
his team and he will have powers to seek replacements from time to time on
reasonable grounds.  If CE, PWD fails to provide substitutes in their place
within 30 days of demand by the consultant, the latter will be free to engage
his own local engineers in those positions with or without the assistance of
his associate local consulting firm, if any.
12.       The consultant shall have to record measurements of work from time
to time in the form prescribed by CE, PWD and submit bills for passing to the
Executive Engineer concerned of PWD. The Executive Engineer will, after
physically checking at least 5 percent of the measurements on site and audit,
make payment of the bill to the contractor under intimation to the consultant.
13.       The consultant will also forward his comments on remarks, if any,
taken on these works by the vigilance unit of GOA within 30 days of their
receipt.
Additional Services
14.       Additional responsibilities to those specified above, the Engineer
would, if so requested by the Employer, perform any of the functions specified
below:
(a) preparation of reports or additional contract documents for
consideration of proposals for the carrying out of additional work;
(b) carrying out work consequent upon any assignment of the Contract;
(c) advising the Employer and carrying out work following the appeal to
arbitration or litigation relating to the Works; and
(d) any other specialist services by the Engineer or other specialists
as may be agreed upon.
15.       All additional functions other chan minor extras without materially
affecting the scope of work will be authorized by the Employer at rates or on
a mon-month basis and under conditions to be mutually agreed.



-57-
Reports and Documents
16.       The Engineer shall furnish to the Employer the following reports
and documents in the number of copies stated. All reports and documents shall
be in English.
Prociress Reports (10 copies)
17.       The Engineer shall submit Progress Reports to the Employer which
shall include minutes of site meetings with the Contractor which the
Engineeres Representative has convened, commencing at the end of the month
following the date of award of the contract for construction. The reports
shall also cover physical and financial progress, quality control aspects
including analysis of test results, response to PWD's remarks, etc.  After the
issue of the Completion Certificate, these reports shall be submitted at
quarterly intervals until the end of the Maintenance Period.
Comoletion Report (20 copies)
18.       The Engineer shall submit a Completion Report at the time of final
certification.



-58-
Annex 3
Attachment_2
INDIA
ASSAM-RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Rural Roads
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance for Planninc and Detailed
Encineerinc
I.  BACKGROUND
1.        The Government of India has received a Credit from the World
Bank/IDA on behalf of the State of Assam for the Assam Rural Infrastructure
and Agricultural Services Project (ARIASP), covering rural infrastructure
(roads and irrigation); poverty alleviation (production of grains, oilseeds
pulses, horticultural crops, milk and fish); institutional development
(technology generation and transfer, land administration, seed multiplication
and training); and implementation of the project which also includes studies.
Though the project area covers 23 districts, rural roads will be limited to
six districts of Assam, namely Lakhimpur, Nagaong, Sibsagar, Kamrup, Darrang
and Cachar. Each district is further divided into administrative blocks. The
rural roads under the project include 1400 kms and 292 bridges. The
construction would take about five years, though early completion is possible.
Construction during the first year of the project would be approximately 200
km and a few selected bridges.
2.        The roads would be constructed as per the standards for rural roads
laid down in Indian Roads Congress publications subject to certain specific
parameters. The roads are to be constructed with soil embankments, topped by
a bedding of granular material t'murum'). inc-luding a 10 cm metalling.  Major
bridges would generally be single-lane (replacing unserviceable wooden
bridges). The project also provides for maintenance of these roads during the
last two-three years of the project.
3.        The road works are divided into separate contract packages, each
costing about Rs. 10 to 20 million and covering roads in one or two
(adjoining) blocks. There are 10 such packages in the first set of contracts
and the following would vary between 10 to 15 contracts. The works are
proposed to be awarded as per LCB procedures and standard bidding documents
are to be adopted in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines.
II. OBJECTIVES
4.        The main objectives of this consultancy would be as follows:
(a) motivate PWD staff;
(b)  provide overall technical guidance for the PWD Staff in



-59-
survey, investigation, subsoil exploration, design of roads,
cross drainage works and Major Bridges included in the first
years program;
(c) monitor progress and in case it is not satisfactory, initiate
necessary corrective steps so costs adhere to the agreed
schedule;
(d)  get the detail drawings of roads, culverts and bridges
prepared under their expert guidance by using the PWD staff
to the maximum extent and following IRC guidelines as amended
by the World Bank Experts for use on this project;
(e) prepare detailed estimates and project reports firming up
quantities and reviewing the rates;
(f) prepare LCB bidding documents for the road and bridge
packages for the remaining works;
(g). get the documents prepared for processing of the land
acquisition cases, if any, for the works involved; and
(h) supervise preparation of road maps and other data for the
-         blocks so as to maintain the tempo of project-preparation.
III. TrMING OF CONSULTANCY
5.        The assignment will become effective as soon as the Government of
Assam finalizes the Consultants proposal. The period of completion of the
work will be six months for preparation of detailed estimates and project
reports. The bidding documents should be prepared by the end of 1995/96
fiscal year.
IV. SCOPE OF WORK
6.        The assignment of the consultant will be as follows:
(a)  The consultant will tackle about 200 kms of roads and cross
drainage structures and about 1000 meters of major bridge
crossing identified. for the first year;
(b) advise the Superintendent Engineer, PWD assigned to the task,
guide and supervise the work of the survey divisions of PWD
who will be put on the job. The PWD team will carry out
surveys of road alignments, investigate bridges, cross
drainage sites, collect hydraulic data, subsoil
investigations, material surveys and prepare base maps etc.;
(c) monitor the progress of the survey teams, and if at anytime
the progress is not satisfactory, the consultant will suggest
remedial measures to ensure timely completion of the job;



-60-
(d) The consultant will be responsible for the designs of roads,
and bridges using the survey data obtained;
(e) prepare detailed drawings employing PWD engineers;
(f) review the schedule/market rates and prepare detailed
estimates and project reports six months of the date of
commissioning;
(g) ensure that PWD prepares land Plan and schedules in respect
of lands needed for the project works;
(h) provide within a months of commissioning the bidding
documents for LCB packages, (by grouping of works in
consultation with GOA) based on the model document being used
for other Bank supported road projects and the. Bank
guidelines;
{i) furnish the following documents:
a. Project Report: 25 copies
b. Plans and Estimates for each job: 15 copies
c. Drawings: Original Tracings
d. Bidding Documents: 5 copies
V. SERVICES TO BE PROVIDED BY PWD
7.        GOA will be responsible for the following:
(a)  immediately setup field divisions under SE and CEs;
(b)  Post technical personnel to man all vacant positions;
(c) ensure that all survey instruments, laboratory equipment,
boring and drawing office equipment are in good working
condition and are available to the field units in the desired
quantities;
(d) ensure that the survey and consultants teams will have
adequate transport available throughout the period of
consultancy;
(e) ensure that no assigned staff is removed or transfered
without the consultant's prior approval;
(f) provide office and temporary housing (suites in PWD Guest
House or one or two fully furnished Government Quarters with
One bedroom per staff) to the consultant's staff throughout
the period;



-61-
(g) ensure that coordination with other Government/semi-
government Departments will be done by PWD;
(h)  make available data regarding quarries, quality and
availability of local materials, analysis of Schedule of
rates etc.; and
(i)  assign a CE to be fully responsible for the Schedule of
project preparation during the consultancy period.
VI. PAYMENT SCHEDULE
(a)  On comnissioning 10'.
(b) 15 days after start - 30%
(c) 30 days after start - 30%
(d) Completion of DPRs, Estimates, drawings etc. - 10t
(e) On completion 20%.



-62-
Annex 3
Attachment 3
INDIA
ASSAM RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Criteria for Ranking Rural Roads
Item           Positive Points                                  Max Points
Remarks
P-1     Population connected/km (No)                      +1S         FP' for
400/km &
above
P-2     Markets connected/km (No)                         +1S         FP for
0.1/km &
above
P-3      Panchayat H/Q connected/km (No)                  +1S         FP for
b.1/km L
above
P-4      Present traffic at center of section             +IS
P-S     Potential for traffic (agric,                     +20
irrigation industry)
P-6     Benefit to existing network of roads              +15
& nearby inhabitants (eg. access
to schools, health centers,
missing bridge etc.)
P-7     Easy availability of construction                + 5
materials
100
NeQative Points
N-l      Cost/km including CD works                       -10         Zero for Rs.
0.8
million/km
FP for Rs.
1.4
million/km a
above
N-2      Cost/km for bridges                              -15         Zero for Rs.
2.0
million/km
FP for Rs.
S.0
million/km E
above
N-3      Problems of land acquisition                     -iS         FP for full
and rehabilitation
N-4     Other adverse factors (eg. hill                   -10
slopes, drainage, agric lands etc.)
Note:   To qualify for selection a road proposal must secure minimum 50
points, but the ultimate preference to be based on overall ranking.
/ FP . Full Points



-63-
Annex 4
Attachment 1.
Assam-Rural Infrastructure and Agricultural Services Prolect
Soils and water management Studv
Terms of reference
1.        The purpose of the study is to: 1. review the soil and water
management constraints to production in the six agro climatic zones of the
state and 2. suggest appropriate technological packages and social action
process designed to enhance productive use and sustainability of the natural
resources.
BackaTrounad
2.        Rice based farming system is dominant in Assam.  Despite a
reasonably well distributed and high rainfall of about 2000 mm per year, quite
favorable for double cropping, the crop intensity in the state is low and per
Ha rice yield is poor just around 1000 Kgs/ha. Flooding, ill-drained
conditions, cloudy weather during main crop season, and poor agronomic
practices are attributed as chief causes for this poor performance.
3.        Rice yields are high during summer season. Potentials for better
land use through diversified cropping exist in summer. For expanding area
under cultivation during this favorable season supplementary irrigation is
required. But land-holdings in Assam are small, farmers are resource poor and
are not able to invest on supplementary irrigation facilities. Earlier
attempts by GOA in installing and operating Public tube-wells for irrigation
have not been successful. In a few cases farmers have come together
voluntarily, formed FMCs, installed tube-wells collectively and diversified
cropping successfully. Can this be repeated on a larger scale?
4.        Soils in Assam are generally acidic. Deficiency of minor elements
are widespread. Soil fertility is poor. Application of inorganic fertilizers
is pretty low; incorporation of organic manures is not practiced on any
significant scale. Added to this the seasonal rains remove and wash off the
top soil thereby depleting the soil fertility. This trend needs to be arrested
and reversed.
s.        Great potentials exist in the state for livestock, fisheries and
sericulture development. Efforts to diversify cropping, introduce viable
integrated farming systems and maximize natural resource use through a
technology package have not been adequate. To design and promote such changes
GOA has established Regional research stations, Field testing centers, soil
survey units and introduced broad based extension approach. Activities of
these organizations need to be coordinated and focussed towards securing
better results.
6.        In Assam land holdings are small and scattered. Pressure on land is
high. For efficient natural resource management besides individual enterprise



-64-
collective group action is considered as critical. Local institution building
through formal as well as informal channels needs to be encouraged to promote
sustained natural resource management.
ADDroach:
7.        The study should address these issues, agro- climatic region-wise.
Specifically it should review:
(a) Land use pattern and farm budgees;
(bi Major problems on soil fertility, soil erosion, and water
management;
(c) Prevailing system for common land and other resources management;
(d) Status of soil survey and fertility mapping;
(e) Status of ground water survey;
Cf) Functions, effectiveness and contribution of the regional research
stations and field testing stations;
(g) Potentials for better land and water use;
(h) Grassroots institutions, both formal and informal, involved in
natural resource management and their effectiveness; and
(i) Public policies influencing soil and water management.
8.        On the basis of the review the study should propose a technology
package to improve soil fertility and water use management. It should also
suggest measures to strengthen the efficiency and effectiveness of the public
institutions involved in technology generation and transfer.
9.        In addition the study should come out with a social action package
designed to implement the technological approach through close involvement of
the beneficiaries and their informal groups.
10.       Public policies which would need to be adjusted to assist
technology adoption and peoples involvement should also be pointed out.
11.       Draft findings of the study should be discussed in a seminar that
will be organized by the PD- PIU. Final report should take in view the
observations of the seminar and ten copies of it should be submitted to the PD
(PIU)
The duration of the study will be six months.



-65-
Annex 4
Attachment 2
ASSAM-RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Marketine Study of High Value Crops
Terms of reference.
1.        This study is aimed at reviewing the constraints for marketing of
high value-crops in Assam and proposing possible policy, technological,
institutional and cost effective investment options for overcoming them.            -
Backgro=nd
2.        Rice based farming system is predominant in Assam. To promote
growth and to alleviate rural poverty it is considered essential to diversify, 
farming and introduce on a significant scale growing of high value crops.
Potentials for growing high value crops of fruits, flowers, vegetables and
spices exist. But there is hardly any reliable estimates on the quantity and
trends in demand for these commodities within and outside the state to support
investments and developmental activities.
3.        Besides doubts exist on the viability of large scale investments on
high value crops due to perceived constraints on marketing. These constraints
include: predominance of small holder operation, constant threats from floods
and ill drained conditions, inadequacy of all weather roads, poor rural
storage facilities, far removed from other major market centers of the country
And thereby leading to higher transport costs and delays in delivery, inland
state with limited export potential, state movement restrictions and taxation
policies, and inadequate institutional support.
4.        A counter argument to the above listed constraints is advanced by
well informed groups that these constraints are overstated and a large volume
of tea grown in the state is moved out efficiently to competitive markets and
variety of materials from fish and eggs to large timber moves every day into
the state from within and outside the country. So it becomes essential to
carefully review the critical bottlenecks in marketing of high value crops and
design viable methods to overcome those.
Method
5.        The consultant should first select a set of high value crops in
which Assam has a perceived market advantage. The set of crops should then be
finalized in consultation with the PIU.
6.        In the next stage the demand and supply position and their trends
for these selected crops within the state and country and in international
markets both in volume and in monetary terms; potentials and viability for
expanding the production of these commodities in Assam; constraints of
technology, public policies, institutional and infrastructural inadequacies
including marketing affecting growth should be assessed. Data for this survey
should be gathered through primary and secondary sources and interview with
established interest groups of both producers and traders, policy makers and



-66-
academicians.
7.        In the third stage viable options to overcome the perceived
constraints should be studied and analyzed. This analysis should result in
formulation of a matrix with specific suggestions for public policy and
institutional adjustments and broad indications on investments for promoting
crops with definite market advantage.
8.        The preliminary observations and suggestions should then be
presented for discussion in a select group of interested and involved people.
The PIU will organize this meeting.
9.        Benefitting from the group discussion a final report ( 6 copiesl-
should be prepared and presented to the PD-PIU.
The study should be completed in a period of six months from
assignment.



hxia
Assam Rural lrbastucur and Agecul   Serias Proct
Conponent Projec Cost Summary
Mse 000)                                     (US$S000)
%     % Totl                                 %      % Total
Foreign   Base                               Foreign   Baa
Local    Forign     Total   Exchange  Cost    Local  Foregn    Total   Exc          Cosat
Poverty Aleviaon
Horkculture                   81,902.6   5,395.2   87,297.8       6       2   2,559.5   168.6   2,728.1        6       2
Flsheries                    261,610.3  22,134.0  283,744.3       8       7   8,175.3   691.7   8,867.0        8       7
Lestck Deveboprt             383,580.9  17,589.9  401,170.8       4      10  11,986.9   549.7  12,536.6        4      10
Subtotal                       727,093.8  45,119.2  772,212.9       6      19  22,721.7  1,410.0  24,131.7       6      19
Infrasbucture
Irrigation                   490,445.5  26,108.0  516,553.5       5      13  15,326.4   815.9  16,142.3        5      13
Rural Roads                 1,720,618.0 154,622.0 1,875,240.0     8      47  53,769.3  4,831.9  58,601.3       8      47
Subtotl                      2,211,063.5 180,730.0 2,391,793.5      8      60  69,095.7  5,647.8  74,743.5       8      60
Insttutlonal Developmen
Technology Geneation          83,223.4  7,211.3   90,434.7        8       2   2,600.7   225.4   2,826.1        8       2
Education and Training        76,542.4   3,9232    80,465.5       5       2   2,391.9   122.6   2,514.5        5       2
Exdension                    326,900.4  12,193.6  339,093.9       4       9  10,215.6   381.0  10,596.7        4       9
Seed MutpNcatlon               6,327.8    489.8    6,817.5        7             197.7    15.3     213.0        7        -
Land Admbot9tion              196      20,081.8  216,767.1        9       5   6,146.4   627.6   6,774.0        9       5
Subtl                          689,679.2  43,899.6  733,578.7       6      18  21,552.5  1,371.9  22,924.3       6      18
PmIecl mplenentation            69,605.4   1,164.8   70,770.3       2       2   2,175.2    36.4   2,211.6        2       2
Totel BASEUNE COSTS           3,697,441.9 270,913.5 3,968,355.4     7     100 115,545.1  8,466.0  124,011.1       7     100
PhysicalCo    alngexces      396,955.6  30,773.4  427,729.0       7      11  12,404.9   961.7  13,366.5        7      11
Price Contingencies         1,187,149.5  93,242.8 1,280,392.3     7      32   8,474.2   805.0   9,279.1        9       7
Total PROJECT COSTS           5,281,546.9 394,929.7 5,676,476.7     7      143 136,424.1 10,232.7  146,656.8      7     118
>- m
m x
1-  n



Aean feud kluck  md A hh_ud 5al'Sm   PraJa
Pv    Co     ns  by Y_ - 8_n-     Comm
1111IM1     7    97N W       S g_   11           e       ii4n  a2 Tm susA                 9637   ITS _W           SO   _ Mi e112   nom  Tod
Houics                               16,3262  15,071.1  12,613.5  11.2412  10,102.9  7,300.4  7,314.3  7,328.2   87,297.8   5102   471.0   394.2   351.3   3157   228.1   228.6   229.0  2,7281
Fiss                                 59,40.8  45,59.6  32,223.8  31,223.6  31,223.6  2,377.6  28,377.6  28,e77.6   23,744.3  1,870.0  1.425.0  1,0070   975.7  975.7   e66.6   686.8   839.9  8,87.0
Lfrdoa DsvsopnmD                     90,3s666  89,1352  4m).3  33MU.7  36,U4.0  41,68.8  30I.39   30,447.4  401,170.5  2*24.0  2.7e.5  1,506.9  1,0576  1,141.7  1,300.9  966.5   951.5  2,536.6
S    w                                ISO166,33.  149,805.9  93,059.4  76,30s.5  77.8o.5  77,306.9  660w.9  64.663.3  772212.9  52042  4.e61 4  2,90W.1  2,36.7  2,433.1  2,415.8  2,083.9  2,020.4  24,131.7
ig"m                                   900.0  31,448.8  70,048.9  96,647.4 102,488.9 100,9D4.9  79.726.4  34,388.4  516,553.5    28.1   962.8  2,189.0  3.0202  3202.5  3.153.3  2,491.4  1,074.6  16.142.3
Runl Fos                            1252,.0 181,060.0 216.460.0 301,260.0 304260.0 31C,010.0 247,510.0 122,445.0 1.875,240.0  3.913.6  5.033.1  9,233.1  9,414.4  9,508.1  9,937.8  7.734.7  3,62e.4  58,601.3
Sub_uS                                126,135.0 19,508.8 365,506.9 37.907.4 406.748.9 418,914.9 327236.4 156,833.4 2,3e1,793.5  3,941.7  6,015.9 11,4222 1Z434.6 12710.9 13,091.1 10,226.1  4,901.0  74,743.5
_tamDO_wwpms
TsdnoayGwwo                          17,786.5  30,741.6  20,269.2  8,065.5  3,990.2  3,1872   3.1872   3,1872   90.434.7   555.8   960.7   633.4   252.7   124.7    99.6    99.6    99.6  2,826.1
Effc      fTn*"                      11,321.9  20,823.3  9,952.0  7,140.5  7,224.0  8,938.1  8,078.5  6,987.3   80,465.5   353.8   650.7   311.0   223.1   225.8   279.3   252.5   218.4  2,514.5
Ernmu                                54,055.3  63239.5  42.9092  38,244.  36.s662  35.656.0  37,762.0  30,472.0  33,093.9  1,8892  1.9762  1,343.7  1.1952  1,14.8  1,114.2  1,180.1   9522  10,596.7
SeedMpaban                                 *    952.5  1.005.0  1.0575   1.1100   1,162.5  1215.0    315.0    6,8175        -    29.8    31.4    33.0    34.7    36.3    38.0      9.8    213.0
Lnd Ad _StSrfon                      68,624.3  69365.1  77,070.1    M75    337.5    337.5    337.5    337.5  216,767.1  2,144.5  2,168.3  2,408.4    10.5   10.5    10.5    10.5    10.5  6,774.0
SIS                                   151,787.9 1,142.0 151295.5  u.s6.9  49,326.9  49,281.3  50,o82  41,299.0  733,576.7  4,743.4  5,785.7  4,728.0  1,714.6  1,541.5  1,540.0  1,580.6  1290.6  22.924.3
P j r  _wnwnSu                          2.4384   7,774.6  10,818.4  12,357.5  12,800.3  11,173.4  6,415.1   6,994.5   70,770.3    76.1   243.0   336.1   3662   400.0   3492    200.5   216.6  2,211.6
TOM  AIEL    COMT                     446,s2.9 535231.3 620.882.3 541440.3 546,735.6 556,7.4 450,915.5 269,760.1 3,988.355.4 13,965.4 16,726.0 19.396.3 1892.0.0 17,085.5 17.396.1 14,961.1  8.430.6 124,011.1
PhyFdC-iinucia                       4229.5  57,089.9  61150.1  53,9391  56,783.4  59,597.5  52,213.9  37,62.6  427,729.0  1,321.6  1.784.1  2,129.7  1,685.8  1,774.5  1,8624  1,631.7  1,177.0  13,366.5
Wm -on
Loal                             18,324.5  64,445.8 120.8072 144,406.9 189,113.3 237,363.6 235,157.1 173,221.6 1,162,642.0   572.6  2,013.9  3.775.2  4,512.8  5,909.8  7.417.6  7,348.7  5.4132  36.963.8
Foi                                326.7   1.43.1   2,816.9  3,3012   4,236.1  5,836.0  5,141.3  2,590.0   25,758.4    102    44.9    902    1032   132.4   182.4   150.7    80.9    805.0
Subk   hUmus                       10,6612  66,83.9 123,694.1 147.7102 193,351.4 243,199.7 240,28.4 175,811.6 1,38S,0.4   562.8  2,068.9  3,366.4  4.615.9  6,0422  7,600.0  7,09.3  5.494.1  37,768.8
Dosvlon                             1,7956.   5,052.4  6,510.0  9,121.8  11.3212  15,472.5  13,601.0  6,9162   71,791.9  -792.0  1.632.8 -3,019.9 -3,478.5 -4,441.7 -5,518.4 -5,419.7 *3,96.7 -26.469.8
sutiot PiceConvivclss                20u47.9  70,936.3 132,204.1 156,831.9 204,872.6 2566722 253,899.4 182.727.8 1280.392.3  .209.1   226.1   84.6  1,137.5  1.8001  2,061.  2,089.6 1,507.4   927.1o
TodW PRAECT COSTS                     509,633.4 863,257.6 U1.038.5 752,2112 88,182.7 874.946.0 757,031.9 490,170.4 5.676.476.7 15,077.9 18,7361 22.371.6 19,7431 20,460.6 21,340.1 17,812.4 11,115.0 146,656.8  1
Tas                                  25,896.7  33,484.4  41,199.9  36,50.8  40233.4  45,465.5  38.455.9  22.221.7  283,714.3   763.4   945.9  1,122.6   967.2  1,018.6  1,108.9   904.8   503.9  7,335.3
FonliEx&-ps                          31,715.3  49,448.3  62463.3  53,555.3  56,047.7  66256.7  51,748.6  23,694.6  394,929.7   938.3  1.396.8  1.79.0  1.405.7  1,418.9  1.616.0  1.2176    537.3  10,2327
I 3  0
- CD
mx(



Inda
Auam Rura nlrartructuru and Agricutural Serices Projd
Pract COmponwnt by Yw - Toas buctuing Catngmtn_e
Toals Mdkina Candnlaniias (Rs W0)                                                ToaLs 7mkudln Co_tlnaanc   (US$ W000)
S9M      9S1f7    97m       9         9        0681     01/02    02/03      TotS    S9        969    7 97M7 97  5       60    OM         01102   02M0     TONI
Pon A
tbrticultur                 18,751.8  18,701.2  16,745.0  15,877.3  15,187.0  11,728.1  12,456.5  13,230.8  122,677.7   554.8   528.3   456.3   416.7   384.5   286.1   293.1   300.0   3,219.7
Fishwris                    67,974.0  56,f97.1  43,459.2  44,679.9  47,359.0  45,929.5  48.682.5  49,007.0  404,068.3  2,011.1  1,607.3  1,184.2  1,172.7  1,199.0  1,120.2  1,145.5  1.113.1  10,553.0
Liveork Develpent          100,3T772 l ,97  62,391.8  47,091.1  53,733.0  64,588.1  51,485.7  53,748.5  540,302.1  2,99.7  3,020.0  1,700.0  1,236.0  1,360.3  1,575.3  1,211.0  1,218.8  14,291.1
Sut7O                        187,103.0 182,505.1 122,596.1  107,648.2 116,279.0 122,245.8 112,604.7 116.0f6.4 1,067,048.1  5,535.6  5.155.5  3,340.5  2,825.4  2,943.8  2,981.6  2,649.5  2,631.9  28,063.8
h      _r l
Irrigadan                     963.0  37,547.5  89,367.6 130,971.7 147,566.4 154,478.1  130,166.4  81.031.2  752,112.0    29.1  1,060.7  2,435.1  3,437.6  3,735.9  3.767.8  3,062.7  1,383.9  18,912.7
Rual Roads                 139,001.2 197,582.6 386,122.0 418,486.5 450,799.6 501,372.3 417,025.5 224,828.5 2,735,018.2  4,1125  5,581.4 10,521.0 10,983.9 11,412.6 12,228.6  9,812.4  5,093.6  69,748.0
SubltSt                      139,984.3 235,130.1 475.489.5 549,458.2 598,366.0 855,850.4 547,191.9 285,659.7 3,487.1302  4,141.5  6,642.1  12,958.1  14,421.5 15,148.5 15.996.4 12.875.1  6,477.5  68.f8.7
raUnl s
TudnobgyyGwatbt             20,248.5  37,742.4  26,f64.2  11,523.7   6,250.6   5,430.5   5,758.1   6,101.7  119,705.5   599.0  1.066.2   726.3   302.5   158.2   132.5   135.4   138.4   3,258.4
EductonandTrakint           12.6782  25,534.7  12.784.7   9,736.7  10,455.1  13,645.6  13,055.1  11,990.0  109.889.1   375.1   721.3   348.4   255.6   264.7   332.8   307.2   272.1   2,877.1
Ex7wiom                     f2,.7  78.f80.7  58,181.0  55.137.8  5f253.2  58.222.8  65,125.2  68829.0  491,220.4  1,857.7  2.222.6  1,585.3  1,447.2  1,424.1  1,420.1  1,532.4  1,288.6  12,778.0
S"d Mu3ti7ication                 .   1,156.6   1,306.2   1,464.3   1,636.6  1,824.3   2,028.6    803.3   10,019.8      -    32.7    35.8    38.4    41.4    44.5    47.7    13.7    254.0
Larnd Admnmistration        f4,027.7  93,193.7 110,219.8    511.7    542.4    574.9    609.4    646.0  290.325.6  2.486.0  2,632.6  3003.3    13.4    13.7    14.0    14.3    14.6   8,192.1
Sutl                         1797430 236,308.0 209,145.9  78,3742  75,137.8  79,698.3  86,574.4  76,178.9 1.021,160.5  5,317.8  6,675.4  5,698.8  2,057.1  1,902.2  1.943.9  2,037.0  1,727.4  27,359.6
PmoedmplpWmenlati              2,803    9,314.3  13,806.0  18,730.6  18,4098  17,151.8  10,657.8  12,265.4  101,237.8    82.9   263.1   376.2   439.1   486.1   418.3   250.8   278.1   2,574.6
Totl PROJECTCOSTS             509,633.4 663.257.6 821,036.5 752,2112 808.192.7 874.940,0 757,028.9 490,170.4 5,676.476.7 15,077.9 18,736.1 22.371.6 19,743.1  20,460.6 21,340.1  17,812.4 11,115.0 146,656.8
'D
> 
7D
Li t-



India
Assam Rural Infrasbucture and Agricuhtural Services Prject
Expwndiwture Accounts Prolect Cost Summary
(Rs 1000)                                     (US$ 1000)
%     % Total                                 %      % Total
Foreign   Bae                                 Foreign    Base
Local    Foreign    Total   Exde  Costs   Local   Foreign    Total   Exchange  Costs
Investent Costs
Cli Works                              1,696,187.5 188,465.3 1,884,652.8     10      47  53,005.9  5,889.5  58,895.4        10      47
Vehldes                                   75,928.0  18,982.0   94,910.0      20       2   2,372.8   593.2   2,965.9        20        2
MchlSrwny,Equ.TpentandFumlture           560,384.7  11,436.4  571,821.1       2      14  17,512.0   357.4  17,869.4         2       14
TraIning                                 154,860.0        -  154,860.0         -      4   4,839.4        -   4,839.4         -       4
Technical Assistance                      82,685.5        -   82,685.5         -      2   2,583.9        -   2,583.9                 2
Planing Materials                           263.0         -     263.0          -       -      8.2        -       8.2
Demnos, Field Rsch, Surverys             168,837.0       -  168,837.0          -      4   5,276.2            5,276.2         -       4
Purchase of Lvestock                     34,675.0        -   34,675.0         -       1   1,083.6            1,083.6                 1
NGOs, Women's Gps Involvement             50,000.0       -   50,000.0          -      1   1,562.5        -    1,562.5        -       1
Total Investnent Costs                   2,823,820.7 218,883.7 3,042,704.4      7      77  88,244.4  6,840.1   95,084.5       7       77
Recurrent Costs
Salaries                                200,067.7         .  200,067.7         -      5   6,252.1        -   6,252.1         .      5
EquipmentOperationandMaintenance          60,962.9   6,773.7   67,736.5      10       2   1,905.1   211.7   2,116.8        10       2
Building Operation and Maintenance       236,133.8  26,237.1  262,370.9      10       7   7,379.2   819.9   8,199.1        10       7
VehleOperationandMaintenance             37,156.5   4,128.5   41,285.0      10       1   1,161.1   129.0   1,290.2        10        1
Road Maintenance                         192,400.0       -  192,400.0         -       5   6,012.5        -   6,012.5         -      5
Office Supplies                           36,227.5   4,025.3   40,252.8      10       1   1,132.1   125.8   1,257.9        10        1
Fid Supplies                              97,787.7  10,865.3  108,653.0      10       3   3,055.9   339.5   3,395.4        10       3
Rer  Chagges                              12885.0        -   12,885.0          -       -    402.7        -     402.7         -
Total Recurrent Costs                      873,621.2  52,029.8  925,651.0       6      23  27,300.7  1,625.9  28,926.6         6      23
Ttatl BASEUNE COSTS                       3,697,441.9 270,913.5 3,968,355.4      7     100 115,545.1  8,466.0  124,011.1       7     100
Physica ContngenKies                     396,955.6  30,773.4  427,729.0       7      11  12,404.9   961.7  13,366.5         7       11
Price Contingencies                    1,187,149.5  93,242.8 1,280,392.3      7      32   8,474.2   805.0   9,279.1         9        7
Total PROJECT COSTS                       5,281,546.9 394,929.7 5,676,476.7      7     143 136,424.1  10,232.7  146,656.8      7     118
o x
IF3 VI



tna
Ag_n Iubr htrasbucWrs &-d Agrudhurals Sevc Pmod
Expwnflws Accont bys Ci p n- 8m  Co'
(USS Wm
InOtu0enSi DovWmf
Povuly MAswln                                             Ed_oefon        uPhys
LU            hhsu              Tmlogy  NWd                       Sed          Land           Paad              Cn_
NSucaibn  Flow    .v L             r!d   Rurl Rasfl   gnsian Trining Exlgnalon MulUpicln  AdISiSSUO    M                          To t     .  Aniount
hIv alw  Cast
CM Wod                                         833.9   3,340.8        784.3   4.655.3    41,425.0    1.384.3   664.8     7122          93.8             -                  58.895.4 10.0  5,s8.5
V ldg                                                    325.0        773.4        -       484.4      100.0   154.4   1,038.1            -           34.4            56.3  2,965.9  5.0   148.3
Mad*      E y.E EipnwudPw Fumnt                114.3    w80.8       3285.8   9636.6      2.165.6      439.1    116.7     524.9         75.0         307.5            23.4  17,66E94  5.0   603.5
Trsbtg                                         142.9    200.0       2,596.1     34.4       468.8       24.2  123.8           -            -          46.9             2.5  4,839.4  5.0   242.0
Tscwts IAalg                                              25.0           -               2,500.0       17.7      1.6         -                        0.6            39.1  2,583.9  2.0    51.7
PiNIn  MstulSs                                   8.2                     -         -           -          -       -          -            -             -               -      82  5.0      0.4
Ono,   d IbdFi Sum"                            OGA.4    884.4       1.164.4        -           -       50.8       *   2,468.3             -             -               -   5,2782  5.0   263.8
Purd Uvdl     ocs                                 -         -       1,021.1        -           -       62.5       -          -                          -               -   1083.6  5.0    54.2
NGOs, Wanus Gps lwn                               -         -            .        -           -           -       -         *            -              -         1  2    1,562.5  5.0    78.1
Tsihwsgtmk   Cast                              1,789.7   s,666.0      9,624.9  14,27.1    52.043.8    2,078.5  2201.1    4,761.5        168.8         389.3         1,743.8  95,084.5  8.0  7,621.5
Pacuwns Cast
Sdiss                                          109.1    461.1          4.7         -        52.5      1682      84.4   4,918.1           -          235.1           331.0  6282.1 20.0  1250.4
E%n ti10Opwatcnud w    lhlmwws                    -     249.7         81.3   1518.2        217.5          -     4.4                    33.8             -            15.0   2116.8 20.0   423.4
A,hiqSig Opsdo  NW Uifletog                     82.5    184.9         55.8        -           -       338.5   1822       546.1         10.5        6,121.9          196.7  8,199.1 20.0  1,639.8
VsIls Opirka mid Mtnunw  t                               161.3       525.3        -        250.0       51.0    29.4      219.4           -           18.8            352   12902 20.0   258.0
Roadninm,                                         -         -                            8,012.5          *                 *            *              ,                  6,012.5 20.0  1202.5
OUcesupiss                                     707.1      19.1        395.5       -         25.0          -       -      108.6           *            4.7              -   1.257.9 200    251.6
Fid Supplse                                     396.   2.155.0        950.8       -           -       191.9    13.1       45.0           -              *                  3,395.4 20.0   879.1
PA   Chwgs                                        -         -         3           - ,                             -         -            -            42               -    402.7 10.0    40.3
TomRSCUS       I                                 938,3   5211.0       2.911.7   1,5152     6,567.5      747.5   3114    5,8352           4.3         6,354.6          467.8  28,926.6 199  5,745.1
TWUASELNECOSTS                                  2.72.1    8e67.0      12.538.8  16.142.3    58,601.3    2,826.1  2,514.5  10,598.7      213.0        6,774.0         2211.6 124,011.1  10.8 13,366.5
Phy   C        aniuds                          318.8   1,091.3      1,083.0   1,2872     6,159.9      322.1   205.9   1,440.7          22.0        1296.0           179.6  13,366.5    -      *                -
LOsNI                                      734.1   2.417.0      3.108.0  5,728.8    18,862.4      537.6   682.8   3,193.6          71.5         885.9           752.0  36,963.8    -
Fol                                        13.6     68.1          45.8     95.6       495.3       13.6      7.8      30.9          1.8          26.9             4.7      6.0   -
8a*_   biSon                                 747.7   2.483.1      3,153.7  5,827.4    19,347.8      551.3   690.4   3224.5           73.3         912.8           756.7  37,788.8    -
owvljon                                     -574.9   i,g81g.5    -2.462.2  4,324.3   -14.362.9      441.1   -533.8  -2,483.9        .54.3        .790 7          -573.2 -26,489.6
swmwPecs C4AbgwiC6                             172.6    594.7        691.6   1,5032      4.94.9      110.2   156.6      740.6         19.0         122.1          183.5  9,279.1  102    944.9
Ta PROJECT COSTS                               3219.7  10,553.0      14,291.1  18,912.7    69.746.0    3,258.4  2,577.1  12,778.0       254.0        8,192.1        2,574.6 145,656.8  9.8  14.311.5
Tam                                            126.4    523.8         572.4   1,132.6    3,988.5      176.7    79.9      221.8         15.2         471.0            24.8  7,335.3 10.0   735.1
FossgExciig                                    207.2    850.3        664.5   1,0013      5,806.4      265.9   143.1      4483          19.0         778.0            46.6  10,232.7 102   1,043.3
(D X
_n t-n



Aam  FxNU Ws*uanaajra wd AgaLraL Sevicus Projed
Expziwsu mAcsnta by Conponnts - Totad Inrcludrig Conthnganclsa
(US$ 300)
Institutional Devslopriint
PovertY Allvietlon                                           Educrdon
Lvestock       In                 Tchnology    md                       Saud           Land          Proct
NorScUba   Felas            lnt      ,rUt      Red Roods Ganton   Training   Extension   Multlplkcalon   Administration  Implemntation    Total
Ca wotas                                      938.3    3,901.5        873.7     5,569.5    54,970.4    1,550.8     730.1      790.4           110.7             *               -     69.443.4
Vahes                                             -       357S        852.9                   534.3      105.9     172.0    1,154.4              -            35.7           64.0      327.3
Led*ay,ECptnt naMdFumikwr                      121.1      918.3     3,481.7    11.288.7     22402        468.1     124.5      555.8           84.4           318.1           242      19,623.1
Trannig                                        1612       2202      2.953.3       36.1        506.4       25.3    1,433.7                        -            49.4           69.5      5,4552
Tecriv  _Aaaldm                                   -        27.3                      -      2,696.9       17.9       1.6          '              '             0.6           41.3      2.785.7
PM     Mngflate                                 8.9           -           -          -           -                     -          -              -              -               -         8.9
Demo, FluM PR, Stuvarp                         776.4      980.3      1.314.7         -           -        56.1         -    2,757.7              -              -               -      5.8852
PLad    oUvesodk                                  -                  1,082.4                     -        67.0                                                                  -      1,149.4
NGOn. Womas Gps invotwnu                          -           -           -          -           *           *         -          -              -                         i 175       175
To ul Im__ Com                                 2.005.7    6,405.6    10,558.7    16,89Z4     60.9482     2,21.3    2,469B      5,2582           195.1          403.8        1,9643    109,3932
R- Ce
semis                                          142.0      504.8         5.7          -         67.5      213.6     109.5    6,323.7              -           286.8          284.6      8,028.3
EQ4nar Opsmon  nd rMSemm                          -       322B        104.8    2,020.3       279.5          -        5.7          *           4.9               -            19.3      2,7973
BLddlg Opaion nWd Mflewa                       107.4      212.4       720.4                      -       441.3     236.8      715.6           14.0         7,4682           260.0     10,1762
VdaS Opuflan nmd M       _wans                    -       208.0       680.6          -       322.0        65.7      382       284.6              -            22.8           46.4      1,668.3
Rood   im                                         -          -            -                 8,096.6         -          -          *              -              -               -      8,0966
OcaSsvpaS"                                    9142         24.7       514.5                    322           -                 137.4                           5.7                     1,628.7
Fluid Supii                                    50.4    2,784.8       12293           -                   246.5      17.1       58.4              .                              ,      4,386.4          -
Tot, CReare C                                                *        477.1          -           *                                                             4.7              -       481.8
Toald Rscunt Costa                             1,214.0    4,147.4     3,732.4     2,020.3     8,797.8      967.1     407.3    7,519.8           58.9         7,7882           610.3     37,2636
Tot POJECT COST                                 3,219.7    10,553.0    14291.1    18,912.7    60,746.0    3,258.4    2,877.1    12,778.0        254.0         8,192.1        2,574.6    146,656.8
Tame                                           128.4      523.8       572.4     1,132.6     3,988.5      176.7      79.9       221.8           152           471.0           24.8      7,335.3
Fori Eihenpg                                  2072        850.3       664.5     1,001.3     5.08.4       265.9     143.1      448.3            19.0          778.0           46.6     10232.7
(D X
lb Lf



hdis
Asam RuI hk*aaurk and AWb9ura Swas Prpet
Tabl 101. Hwrllswe
Daliod Costa
(As Lami)
oUa.UU.S                         Undt                        BosCost
Undt  U/N  NW7 973  NW  *R 100 0101 U02  N2SW  Total  Cost  3M/N7 37US I/S  0I111M U/2 021W Told
twsaw Costa
KabUud RAsarch St_den
Spawn Poduction of 5dM. ushrom
Ar Dder                                No        1                                                1   0.3  0.3      -     -     -           -    -           0.3
LwmAn*  Fbw                            No        I                 -        -                     1   0.7  0.7                                    -          0.7
Auhowe                                 No        2                                -    -          2 0.175   0.4              -     -              -      -   0.4
LIba_    Fum*_                         La                                                                   0.5           -     -           -0.5
Onn                                    No        1 -                                -            1  0.35   0.4                 -     -                  -   0.4
tcubtahor                              No        I           -           -                        1  0.35   0.4                 -     -     -            -   0.4
Wowh"g Bawnc                           No        I                             -                  1  0.15   0.2           -               _       -      -   0.2
Subtotal                                                                                                      2.7     -                       -    -      -   2.7
Tlaue CulAur Lab. fot Hor. Crops
Lab1aWy Air Cak ronw                   Unkt      I                       -           -            1   1.5  1.5      -           .     -     .          .     1.5
Fwm                                   Set       I     -                                          I -  -   1    1   1.0  -      -     -     -                1.0
PowarGbsalorl bLab.(10KV)              No        I                                                I -   -  1   0.9  0.9   -     -     -                 -   0.9
Lamiaw Fbw tkik                        UniL      I                                                I -  -    -  1   0.6  0.6  -  -     -     -           -   0.6
RAshowe (365 (WS s)                    No        I    -          -             . -  -             1  025   0.3                                               0 . 3 .  -    -  0.3
Auohv                                  Unit      I     -    -      .    -      .    -             10.15   0.2             -     -           -           -   0.2
1111011on Set                          Set       I           .           . -         -     .      1   0.3  0.3            -           -     -     -          0.3
W    t emnce (Lonopan)                 Set       1     -           -    -    -                    1  025   0.3            -     -     -        -     -       0.3
Miot E*    et                          La                                                                   0.3     -     -             -               -   0.3
SWOlow                                                                                                        5.2                                              5 -  -  -  -   5.2
mod Came for Haicure                     La                                                                   0.2  0.2      -     -           - -             0.3
brln, Pr_last  M_d  _ re  Ho
Ddp  hnII                              LS                                                                   0.8           -           -    -    -       - 0.8
P      hbhng SbranB n                  Ls                                                                   0.1     ,     .                                 0.1
P bc Mi og fo Pl -pple- La                                                                                  0.1                                         -   0.1
P        Grn Houa                      La                                                                   1.0     -     -                 -           -   1.0
Sublot                                                                                                        1.9                       - -         - -        1.9
Span Prod. of Edible Muehroom
Trhigft                                Ls                                                                   0.1     -     -     .     .     .     .     .   0.1
SubWd                                                                                                          10.0  0.2            -     -     -    -      -  10.2
Devpt f 23 Propny O ardb
owna  WON                                FM    6.000 6,000 6.000 5.000 3.600           -    - 268600 O.O0   37.8  37.8  37.8  31.5  22.7      -     .    - 167.6
kIpgeon System                           LS                                                                   1.3  1.3  1.3   1.0   1.0       .    -          5.9
Pbuekc Gre  Houa                         LS                                                                   3.1  3.1  3.1   2.5   2.5       -       -      14.4
kiodw Plants fm Pro ngon                 Ls                                                                   0.5  0.5   0.5   0.4   0.4      -         -     2.3
SubtOta                                                                                                        42.7  42.7  42.7  35.4  26.6           -       190.2
Obnnonetnraone Plota
FnrtD Ow (NuLt& Spke)                    No      750  750  750   750  750   750  750  750  6,000  0.01   7.5  7.5   7.5   7.5   7.5  7.5   7.5   7.5  60.0
Commrnfft-Se VaonVg. Dano                No    1.000 1,000 1,000 1,000 1.000 1.000 I,oo  1,o0o   e.0o0   0.01  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0 1o.0  10.0  0o.0  60.0
Tubwe Crop Demos                         No      400  400  400  400  400  400  400  400  3,200  0.01   4.0  4.0  4.0   4.0   4.0  4.0  4.0   4.0  32.0
Fbondkj Deno                            No      400  400  400   400  400  400  400   400  3,200  0.01   4.0  4.0  4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0  32.0
Mialvoam CLtiation Demos                 No      200  200  200  200  200  200  200  200  1,600  0.01   2.0  2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0  2.0   2.0  16.0
Horbutoue: Page 1 a3



Plastic Mulchin Demos                       No        23    23    23    23                                92  0.01   0.2    0.2   0.2   0.2       -     -      -     -   0.9
Subtotal                                                                                                               27.7  27.7  27.7  27.7  27.5  27.5  27.5  27.5 220.9
Training
Civil Works
Consi,uciondNoiNw TmainiHalls              No0       3     2                  -                          5     8  24.0  16.0       -I                              -40.0
Cons. of Now Trg Haft                     No         1     1      -                                      2     9   9.0   9.0       -                  --16.0
Renovation ofExist TmgHals                No        4      3     2            .-                         9     2   8.0   6.0   4.0                                     I       18.0
Subtotal                                                                                                             41.0  -31.0   4.0                  -            -76.0
Training
Special Course lor Field Staff. i.e.
Grafters.Demostanamsora....              NO        a      a     8      6     a        8         8     64 0.03    0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   1.9
Special COuse for
AsstLHouculituraist &Equiv. Post         No        10    10    10    12            -42   0.1   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.2                          -      -     -4.2
SpecelaCowse I" sr. Oillce                No        5      5     5      5            -            -     20  0.15   0.6   0.8   0.8   0.8        -     -3.0
Farmies Insiuuidoal Tmg (0 3 days)        No           1.000 2.000 2,000 2,000 2,000  2.000 2.000  13.0D0 0.002       -   2.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0  26.0
G,oup TmghinFMC (I day)                   NO       23    23    23    23   23    23    23    23    184 0.006   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.9
Serninar                                  NO        a      a     a      a    a      a      a     a      64 0.15    1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   9.6
Sublolm                                                                                                               3.3   5.3   7.3   7.5   5.6   5.6   5.6   5.6  45.6
MMwl 2       ad  -qipw
Om& sadPmschv                             No        a      a     5      2     1      --                 24 0.16    1.3   1.3   0.6   0.3   0.2        -      -3.8
Vabmp    Iilwma                           No               a     5      2     1            -      -     10 0.012          0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0              -0.2
SlidePrajack                              NO        a      5     2      1     -            -            10.09    0.7   0.5   0.2   0.1                                 1.4
TV  'd VCR                                No               a     5      2     I                         16 0.21           1.7   1.1   0.4   0.2       -                3.4
Genumar                                   No               a     5      2     1                         % 10.29      - 2.3   1.5   0.6   0.3                 -     . 4.6
H.ndToois&SmdbiI.umNo                                      a     5      2     1                         la- 10.05    - 0.4   0.3   0.1   0.1          -- 0.8I
Subs                                                                                                                  2.0   6.2   3.6   1.5   0.7       -      -14.3                      4
A"*elh(Seel                               No              16    10      4    2      --                  32  0.1           1.6   1.0   0.4   0.2              -3.2
WoodUITIb                                 No               a     5      2     1     -16 0.06                              0.4   0.3   0.1   0.1              -     . 0.6
Dmk(Watodrn)                              No         -    0    50    20   tO               -     -     160.am             0.4   0.3   0.1   0.1       -                0.6
Chms                                      No             400   250   100   s0       -                  0000.002           0.6   0.6   0.2   0.1              -         1.6
Amuidmn.d                                 NO               a     5      2     1                         16 0.015          0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0              .0.2
stool                                     No              24    1 5     5    3      -                  47 0.002      - 0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0                       -   0.
0laglm av                                 No               a     5      2     1            -16 0.01                       0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0                    - 0.2
olmk ooads                               No               a      5     2     1      -16 0.01                         - 0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0                .          0.2
suMmed                                                                                                                      3.5   2.2   0.9   0.4                    - 7.1
$011111m1ed.   46.1  17.3   9.9   6.7   S.6   5.6   5.6 143.0
TMS * Pdh AAU
Pmswamao Su                               Llnil      I                                                   I      1   1.0           -                                . 1.0
Br    Hou                                 UIIII      I                                                   1       0.5   0.5  -                                          0.5
Spue. Plmbw. hrpn                         UnI        1                                                   I     1   1.0                   -                              1.0
EW& .ftlnp                                LS                                                                       0.5                                                 0.5
subs"d                                                                                                                3.0     -                                      - 3.0
GOa..eOr- UKV                             Uink       I            -                                          J.25   0.3            -                                    0.3
Sodum Vqpmw Lap w. Aceamorin             Units      10                               -10   0.5   5.0                               -                                    5.0
Took mi bpW     mi                         La                                                                       0.3     -                                          0.3
subom                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~5.5  -                             - 5.5
IlUlte"                                                                                                                 6.5      -                                           .5
T44d ftweltent. Costa                                                                                                   1i35.3- 116-.6  87.7  73.1  6D.6  3311   33.1  33.1 572.7
RACU"  C.U
HNaedmihx Pag 2 of 



Kehikuchl Research Station
Development of Progeny Orchards
Plastics br Mulching                     Ls                                                                    0.3   0.3   0.3   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   1.8
Itmproved Veg. Seed. Fert. Chem          Ls                                                                     0.5   0.5   0.5   0.4   0.4                       2.3
Subtotal                                                                                                          0.8   0.8   0.8   0.6   0.6   0.2   0.2   0.2   4.1
Spawn Prod of Edible Mushroom
Chemicals, Seed, Glassware               Ls                                                                     0.7   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   4.2
Incremental Staff
Laboaory Assist;tnt                   No         I     1     1     1    1      1     1      1      8   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   2.4
LaboatoryWorker                       No         1     1     1     I    I      1     1      1      8 0.144   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   1.2
Subtota_ 0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   3.6
Subtotal                                                                                                          1.1   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   7.8
Tlaue Clture Lab. for Hout Crops
Chemical. Glasswa                        Ls                                                                     1.0   0.5   0.4   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   3.4
Incrmntal Staff
Technical Assistant                   No         1     I     1     1    I      1      1     1      8   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   2.4
Labotatory workers                    No        2      2     2     2    2      2     2     2      16 0.144   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   2.3
Subtotal                                                                                                       0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   4.7
Subtotal                                                                                                          1.6   1.1   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   8.1
Model Centre for Fbrwkult
Feftlizer. Chemals etc                   Ls                                                                    0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   1.1
IncremenlalStaff                         No        1     I     1     I    1      1     1      1     8 0.144   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1  .1.2
Subtotal                                                                                                         0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   2.2
Buding O&M                                 Ls                                                                    0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   2.0
Subtotal                                                                                                           4.0   3.3   3.2   3.0   3.0   2.6   2.6   2.6  24.1
Training
hw entl Stafn
WMgeeduingTraining-Walchman             No         -    8    is   15   16    16    16    16    102  0.25              2.0   3.8   3.8   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0  25.5
Trahig tetas                               Ls                                                                      -   1.2   2.0   2.3   2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4  15.0
Pr*Ig of Leaflets                         Ls                                                                           0.8   1.3   1.5   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6  10.0
IsIell NM s                               Ls                                                                            1.6  2.6   3.0   32    3.2   3.2   3.2  20.0
B&     O&U                                 Ls                                                                    1.2   2.3   2.7   3.0   3.2   3.3   3.4   3.6  22.7
Subtott                                                                                                            1.2   7.9  12.3  13.5  14.4  14.5  14.6  14.8  93.2
TPS PdSrc MU
Lab Operaeing rEspne                       Ls                                                                    0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   3.2
Buding OUU                                Ls                                                                     0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   1.7
Subtotal                                                                                                           0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   4.9
Other Operating Costs
ADA (Hoct)                                No        1        I     I                t I               8  0.4   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   6.7
Joint Dlmtor (Hort.)                      No         1     1     1     I    I      1     1      1      8   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   4.8
Depu"y olrctor(HoFt.)                      No       2     2      2     2    2      2     2     2      16   0.6   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   9.6
Aastt. HoforEquv. Podst                   No       41    41    41   41   41    41    41    41    328  0.36  14.8  14.8  14.8  14.8  14.8  14.8  14.8  14.8 118.1
Hoat Demns,alo  Inspector &
Fild As.                                 No       81    eI    81   81   81    81    81    81    648  0.06   4.9   4.9   4.9   4.9   4.9   4.9   4.9   4.9  38.9
SubOta                                                                                                            22.3  22.3  22.3  22.3  22.3  22.3  22.3  22.3 178.1
TOl RecWeunt Coets                                                                                                  28.0  34.1  38.4  39.3  40.2  39.9  40.1  40.2 300.3
Total                                                                                                               163.3 150.7 126.1  112.4  101.0  73.0  73.1  73.3 873.0
Horiculwe: Pag 3 0l 3



I



India
Assam Rural infrasinrcture and Agricultural Services Project
Table 102. Fisheries Development
Detailed Costs
(Rs Lakh)
Ouantities                         Unit                          Base Cost
Unit  95A96 96/97 97198 96199  99100  0/01 01102 02/03 Total Cost 95/96 96/97 97/98 9869   9900 00/01 01/02 02103  Total
Investment Costs
Fish Seed Production
Civil Works
Brood Fsh Ponds                  No        3      -     -                           -           3  0.45   1.4       -     -                   -     -            1.4
Cement Cistems                   No       20         -        -              -            -   20   0.1   2.0              -      -     -         -      -        2.0
Rearing Ponds                    No       12                          -          -        -    12 0.084    1.0            -      -     -         -     -         1.0
Eco-Hatchery                     No        1      -     -     -              -      -           1      4   4.0            -      -         -     -     -         4.0
Water Supply                     Ls                                                                        2.5                -        -            -      -    2.5
Storage Faciites               Ls                                                                         10                                      -1.0
Subtotal                                                                                                     11.9           -      -         -     -      -       11.9
Equipment                          Ls                                                                         1.0     *     *      *        *     *      *         1.0
Subtotal                                                                                                       12.9     -            -                              12.9
Mobil Fish Health Clinic
Anibaloy Van w. Accessories        No        3     3      -              -            -     -     6      7  21.0  21.0      -      *     -         -         -   42.0
Fameus' Ponds
Pond Cbarance                      Ha       25    25    25    25        25    25    25    25   200  0.24   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   6.0   48.0
Community Ponds
Pond Clearance                     Ha       20    40    40    40        40    40    40    40   300  0.24   4.8   9.6   9.6   9.6   9.6   9.6   9.6   9.6   72.0
Beat Fishery Development
Survey Equlpment
Pri smacbcCompass (14mm)         No       10      -                          -                 10 0.009   0.1             -     -      -     -      -     -    0.1
Dumpy Level (Kali)               No       10                                  -     -          10 0.045   0.5             -            -     -            -    0.5
Chain 30 m.                      No       10         -        -  -               -        -    10 0.005   0.1       -     -     -      -     -      -     -    0.1
Plane Table wih Accessories      No       10                                 -      -     -    10 0.015   0.2       -     -            -     -            -    0.2
Drawing Table - 54'              No       10      -     -                                      I   -  10 0.008   0.1  -   -     -      -     -      *     *    0.1
Drawing Board                    No       10      *     -     -        -     -                 10  0.01   0.1       -     -     -      -     -      -     -    0.1
Tee-Square                       No       10                                                   I -  -     -  10 0.001   0.0  -  -      -     -      -     -    0.0
Set Square (Big)                 No       10      -     -     -        .                       10 0.001   0.0       -     -     -      -     -      -     -    0.0
Engineering Scale                No       20      -     -     *           -      -        -   20           0.0      -     -      -     -     -      -     -    0.0
Ranging Rod - 3m                 No       10                                                   I   -  -  -    10 0.003   0.0  -  -  -  -     -            -    0.0
Stuff (L) 4m.                    No       10      -     -        *       -                -    10 0.005   0.0             -     -      -     -      -           0.0
Survey Umbrells                  No       10      -                                            I *  *  -  -  -    10 0.008   0.1  -  -       -      -     -    0.1
Misc. Supplies                   Ls                                                                        0.1      -     -     *                               0.1
Blue Pdnting Machine             No        1                         -     -                   1  0.28   0.3       -     *     *      -     -      -     -    0.3
Ohat Tracer                      No        I      -     -             -      -            -     1 0.005   0.0          -     -         -     -      -     -    0.0
Ouick Selting Level              No        I      -        -       -         -      -     -     1 0.045   0.0       *     *     -                      -        0.0
Thoodolde                        No        I            -      -          -      -        -     1  0.16   0.2       -     -     -      *     -      -           0.2
Materials                        No        1      -     -     - I            -      *           1  0.01   0.0       -     - _                       -     -    0.0
Subtotal                                                                                                     1.7                   -        -         -     -     1.7
BealSurvey                         No       25    25      -      *       -            -     -   50  0.06   1.5   1.5        -            -     -      -     -    3.0
Weed Clearance                     Ha      625   625   625   625       625   625   625   625 5,000   0.1  62.5  62.5  62.5  62.5  62.5  62.5  62.5  62.5  500.0
Fisheries: Page 1 of 5



Embarkments                    mig. mA3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3     0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   2.4  112  33.6  33.6  33.6  33.6  33.6  33.6  33.6  33.6  268.8
Erection ol Pens                000 m      -    5      5                                     10   0.8         4.0   4.0     -     -            -     -    8.0
Minibundhs (Seed Pdtn)           No              4     3     *                          -    7      2          8.0   6.0     -     -      -     -     -   14.0
Jeep   Trailor                   Sets      7                      -      -        -           7     3  21.0            -           -      -     *     *   21.0
Breeding Equipment               Sets      7     .     .                                      7   0.5   3.5                                                 3 5 -
Subtotal                                                                                                 123.8 109.6 106.1  96.1  96.1  96.1  96.1  96.1  820.0
Fisheries Research
Wet Laboratory
Consuction o Wet Lab.          No        2        -     -       -         -     -     -    2  2.25   4.5       -     -     -                  -     -    4.5
Wet Lab. Equipment             Sets      2                   -     -                  -    2   1.1   2.2             -     -     -  I         -     -    2.2
Subtotal                                                                                                 6.7                 -     -         -        -    6.7
Analytical Laboratory
Equipment                      Sets      2     *           -        -     -     -           2    18  36.0                        -     -      -     -   36.0
Other Equip.                   Sets      2     *                          -     -           2   5.9  11.8            -                                      -    -   11.8
Subtotal                                                                                                47.8                       -         -        -   47.8
Research Pjts (Jorhat & Raha)   Locatn     2     2     2     2       2     2      2     2    16   10  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  160.0
Braeding Unit (Magur) Is
CiviA Works                    Ls                                                                      0.8        -        -     -                        0.8
Lab. renov.                    Ls                                                                      2.0     -           -        -         -     -    2.0
Fish Ponds at Jorhat. Raha, etc..  No    2     3     -              -     -     -     -    5      3   6.0   9.0      -     -     -                  -   15.0
Farm Equip                     No        2     3     -              -     -     -     -    5      1   2.0   3.0      -     -     *      -           -    5.0
Subbotal                                                                                                10.8  12.0        -        -            -     -   22.8
Mini-Feed Plant
Constndion o Bulding           No        1                      -            -        -    1   1.5   1.5       -        -     -     -      -        -    1.5
Equipment                      Set       1     -     -     *        -     -     - -         1    12  12.0      -     -     -                  -     -   12.0
istallabon                     Ls                                                                      1.0     -     -     -     *      .           .    1.0
Subtotal                                                                                                14.5     -           -     -     _    _    _       14.5
Subtotal                                                                                                  99.8  32.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  251.8
Fshew.e ExL, Educ. & Trng
CMi Wodie
Training Haln                  No        3     3     -          -      -     -        -    6      5  15.0  15.0               -      -     -        -   30.0
Tranee Hostels                 No        3     3     *          -         -     -     -    6    10  30.0  30.0       -            -                      60.0
Subtotal                                                                                                45.0  45.0     -     -     -            -     -   90.0
Trng+Demo Facility Equip
Audovsual Equip                 Ls                                                                    13.0  13.0   1.6   1.6   1.6      *           -   30.8
Minibus                        No        3     3     -                    3     3     -   12      5  15.0  15.0      -     -     -15.0 15.0         -   60.0
Furniture                      Sets      3     3                                      -    6      2   6.0   6.0      -           -      -                12.0
Motbo   for EoE. StaW"         NO       20    20    20    20      20            -         100  0.35   7.0   7.0   7.0   7.0   7.0       -                35.0
Subtobl                                                                                                 41.0  41.0   8.6   8.6   8.6  15.0  15.0      -  137.8
Stall Training
SlallTm Outsld State           No       40    40    40    40      40      -     *         200 0.125   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0             -          25.0
TrainingAbroad/b               No        3     3     3     3       3            -     -   15      1   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0       -     -     -    15.0
londrAng and ConeuLtancy       Ls                                                                      3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   24.0
Suboi4l                                                                                                 11.0  11.0  11.0  11.0  11.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   64.0
Trariig Centres Ic
Cli Wod  r 2 Contras          Centre     2                  -       -     -     -           2     5  10.0      -     -     *         -        *     -   10.0
Auho-VIu Equip                 Seo"      2     -         - *          *      *     *        2     5  10.0               -     -     - *                  10.0
FunmitreforTnVCentre           Sets      2     .        .   .       .                       2   0.5   1.0            -     *        _ _    _     _-       1.0
Subtotbl                                                                                                21.0        -     -        -     -      -     -   21.0
FWiuee  Pap 2 d 5



hamm" eFishCiCLe              Demos    50    50    50   so         so            .         250  0.15   7.5   7.5   7.5   7.5   7.5              -          37.5
Fuoh-cm-Oukeay                Demos      50          s    50       S0            -         250 0.164   8.2   8.2   8.2   8.2   8.2        -     -     -   41.0
Fnb-cum-Pigpey                Dwnos    25    25    25    25        25                      125   0.3   7.5   7.5   7.5   7.5   7.5                    -   37.5
Subtoal                                                                                                  23.2  23.2  23.2  23.2  23.2                   -   116.0
Fim Exmso Eduecaon
Equipmt                         La                                                                     13.0  13.0   1.6   1.6   1.6             -          30.8
Subtota                                                                                                   164.1 133.1  44.5  44.5  44.5  18.0  18.0   3.0  459.7
Open Wbr Fr1uV
CNN Works
SWvvyofOpen Waftes              No       5      6                      -                    10  0.05   0.3   0.3             -     -            -           0.6
Weed Csanwe. eit   g eor.       Ha     250   250                           -               600 0.042  10.5  10.5                         1-     -  _       2.0
Subotl n                                                                                                 10.8  10.6            -        -               -   21.6
Macbtewy & Equ4pnewi
Hyuasc Exc valor                No        I           -     -        -     -           -      1    40  40.0     -                                          40.0
Conor                           No        I                   -                                1    10  10.0          -     -     -         -     -       10.0
Chat. & Cuter (Weod C>oppkng    No        1              -                       -           1      3   3.0        -            - .  .                      3.0
CampingEquWpmwbt.ee             Set      2                           -           -     -    2       2   4.0                  -     -      -                 4.0
Subtota                                                                                                  57.0     .      .     .     .      .     .          57.0
Vdelcle
J p wih Tuaif                   No        2                          -     -        -        2      3   6.0            -     -            -     -     -    6.0
- o. .l. _
Fah Seed                        La                                                                      0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5    4.0
Subkota                                                                                                    74.3  11.3   0.5   0.S   0.5   0.5   0.6   0.5   88.6          I
P.*0 MaclImin can                                                                                                                                                        -j
MeeliewI & Equiweu
CMnpJfi w.. PAINt               No        1                   -                     -        1      2   2.0     -     -      -        -         -     -    2.0
FoxMacine w. Teephonw           No        I                 -        -     -                 1   0.5   0.5            -      -           -      -     -    0.5
Fwudle                          La                                                                      1.5     *     *      *                              1.5
Subtotal                                                                                                  4.0           -      -        -      -     -        4.0
ieep                            No        1     -     -     -        -     -           -     1      3   3.0           -      -     -     -            -    3.0
Couiauttancy                      Ls                                                                      1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0    8.0
Subt_                                                                                                       8.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   15.0
Tdoal hbe ent Coab                                                                                          504.7 323.8 187.7 177.7  177.7 151.2 151.2 136.2 1,809.9
Reun  Costs
Fibh Sed Produefon
Fes,e. Seed, ec                   La                                                                      0.8   0.8   0.8   0.6   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8    6.4
Facity M _uwaie                   Ls                                                                      0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3    2.4
Subi                                                                                                        1.1   1.1   1.1   1.1   1.1   1.1   1.1   1.1    8.8
Moble Fih H         CUSC
h     _mui Staff
0tvs                            NO       3      6     a     6       6      6     6     8    45  0.22   0.7   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3    9.9
Aflendess                       No        3     a     a     6       8      6     5     6    45  0.21   0.8   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3    9.5
Subt1                                                                                                     1.3   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   19.4
Olhw  p        Coats
Va nOpwaginCools                No.      3      a     6     6       6      6     6     6    45  0.12   0.4   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7    5.4
Meikal8uppNe                    No       3      6     8     a       6      6     6     6    45 0.12   0.4   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7    5.4
Suoal_                                                                                                    0.7   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   10.8
Feu   Pxpg3d5



Subtotbl                                                                                                     2.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   30.2
Farmers' Ponds
Repairs anr Maintenance           Ha       25    25    25    25       25    25    25    25   200  0.08   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   16.0
Manures and Fertilizer            Ha       25    25    25    25       25    25    25    25   200  0.25   6.3   6.3   6.3   6.3   6.3   6.3   6.3   6.3   50.0
Feed                              Ha       25    25    25    25       25    25    25    25   200  0.92  23.0  23.0  23.0  23.0  23.q  23.0  23.0  23.0  184.0
Fish Seed                         Ha       25    25    25    25       25    25    25    25   200  0.04   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0    8.0
Prophylactic Measures             Ha       25    25    25    25       25    25    25    25   200  0.03   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8    6.0
Harvest Labor                     Ha       25    25    25    25       25    25    25    25   200  0.08   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   16.0
Subtotal                                                                                                   35.0  35.0  35.0  35.0  35.0  35.0  35.0  35.0  280.0
Community Ponds
Repairs and Maintenance           Ha       20    40    40    40       40    40    40    40   300  0.08   1.6   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2   24.0
Manure and Fertilizer             Ha       20    40    40    40       40    40    40    40   300  0.25   5.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0   75.0
Feed                              Ha       20    40    40    40       40    40    40    40   300  0.92  18.4  36.8  36.8  36.8  36.8  36.8  36.8  36.8  276.0
Fish Seed                         Ha       20    40    40    40       40    40    40    40   300  0.04   0.8   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   12.0
Prophylactic Measures             Ha       20    40    40    40       40    40    40    40   300  0.03   0.6   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2    9.0
Harvest Labor                     Ha       20    40    40    40       40    40    40    40   300  0.08   1.6   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2   24.0
Subtotal                                                                                                   28.0  56.0  56.0  56.0  56.0  56.0  56.0  56.0  420.0
Seet Fishery Development
Incrental Stn
Drivers                         No        7     7     7     7        7     7     7     7    56  0.24   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   1.7   13.4
Vehic. Op. & Maint.               No.       7     7     7     7        7     7     7     7    56  0.15   1.1   1.1   1.1   1.1   1.1   1.1   1.1   1.1    8.4
Subtotal                                                                                                    2.7   2.7   2.7   2.7   2.7   2.7   2.7   2.7   21.8
Fishries Research
Glassware                         Set       2     5     5     5        5     5     5     5    37   0.5   1.0   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   18.5
Chemicaks                         Set       2     5     5     5        5     5     5     5    37   0.3   0.6   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   1.5   11.1
Lab. O&M                          No        2     5     5     5        5     5     5     5    37   0.5   1.0   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   18.5
O&M of Mini-Fish Plant            Ls                                                                      2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   16.0
Buildg OIM                        Ls                                                                      2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   20.0
Subtotal                                                                                                    7.1  11.0  11.0  11.0  11.0  11.0  11.0  11.0   84.1
Fibheries ExL, Educ., and Trng
IncremenWal Staff
Driver                          No        3     6     6     6        6     6     6     6    45  0.24   0.7   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   10.8
CaroleutforHodels               No              3     6     6        6     6     6      6    39  0.24          0.7   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4    9.4
Co*l*ers                        No              3     6     6        6     6     6      6    39  0.44          1.3   2.6  2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   2.6   17.2
Traine  Oneta                   No            200   200   200      200   200   200   200 1.400 0.004           0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8    5.6
Honorau br Guest Lectums        No        -  100   100   100       100   100   100   100   700 0.001           0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1    0.7
Subtal                                                                                                     0.7   4.4   6.4   6.4   6.4   6.4   6.4   6.4   43.6
TA & DA lor Saff                 Centres          3     6      6       6     6     6      6    39  0.06     -   0.2   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4    2.3
Buikig OaM                        Ls                                                                       3.8   3.8   3.8   3.8   3.8   3.8   3.8   3.8   30.4
Op    Expe
POLt Main&Reppirs               No        3     6     6     6        6     6     6      6    45   0.2   0.6   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2    9.0
E enal Leaft                    Ls                                                                      0.3   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6    4.5
Subtl                                                                                                      0.9   1.8   1.8   1.8   1.8   1.8   1.8   1.8   13.5
Suboal                                                                                                       5.4  10.2  12.4  12.4  12.4  12.4  12.4  12.4   89.9
Open Waler Fehery
ham           St
Jep Odwvra                      No        2     2     2      2       2     2      2     2    16   0.3   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6    4.8
Ebmvtr Ddver (HV)               No        1     1     1      1       1     1      1     1    8  0.36   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4    2.9
Clnr                            No        1     1      1     1       1     1      1     1    8  0.21   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2    1.7
F    iahLe Paoe 4 d 5



_s*ga                                                                                                    1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2    9.4
Vbd OUWf
Ha~cExrdw                      No        1     1     1    1        1     1      1     I    a      3   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   24.0
JN                            bNo        2     2     2    2        2     2      2     2    16  0.15   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3    2.4
SuMM                                                                                                     3.3   3.3  3J    3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   26.4
Sub_e                                                                                                      4.5   4.5   4.5   4.5   4.5   4.5  4.5   4.5   35.8
p     MO      -Ca
hI md "Sg                        Le                                                                      2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3   0.3  0.3   0.3   12.2
0Os S p"                         La                                                                      0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2  0.2   0.2    1.6
Veh. OWM                         La                                                                      0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3    2.4
TA, DA.             QL                                                                                   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9    7.2
Paojs Mmimk'gA                   La                                                                      4.2   4.2   4.2   4.2   4.2   4.2  4.2   4.2   33.6
Subftd                                                                                                     7.9   7.    7.9   7.9   7.9   5.9   5.9   5.9   57.0
Tdi pRg g Co*b                                                                                              93.7 132.4 134.6 134.6  134.6 132.6 132.6 132.6 1,027.5
Tda                                                                                                        598.4 456.0 322.2 312.2  312.2 263.8 283.8 268.8 2.837.4
a SI."h. *        ULhlt
h Tcbrig d Mg. Poal     s m_ d LUivisk Sd_im
S        " two  #IA u hg  fh  J qw        r Sbaw Old.) sod G,omhui (Auwup ODi
%W Then pwpnas d   I idlc Soiamun kIrndoingm in puoiacSu o SO ml Uh m*cmrpwuf ad to anm. ftn woes grm hs afsy Om lIwu an aquacuiws.
FRim Pagsdb



I



Assam nRumh*ashauckjr* and Agr  uu  Satves Pea
Tabe 103. Lwisock DOApmui
DetWed Cost
(Rs L&)
OuwmUhh                            UUdt                        aasa  Coi
Un_t _Si   9iW  SlM   lel              W01  01ll2 OWN   Tot   C1o  OW        6il7i   9N  S90O  OU0l2 e2 OM    Totd
h__ CeN
Fumw SUed Pdle t_hm Pv
h.lgeIIaS sn(10Hl)                   U                I                  -                         1    2       -   2.0               -                 -        2.0
TNmNogFkor                           Floor      -    1       -     '                               1  0.03          0.0 n                                        0.0
S.sd SMLahL                                     .     I                                     . -          2          2.0            -                 -     -    2.0
SubGmW                                                                                                                4.0                        -     -           4.0
Dnm Thfl tw iwSn                      No        I                     -     -               -      I   0.1   0.1      -                  -           -           0.1
Doi TWbdwr (      )                   No        I            -           -            -     -      I   0.5   0.5                                                 0.5
aOufwiVsepe                           He        I            -                                     I   0.5   0.5      -     -                                    0 -  -  -    o.s
Di F     0 & 50                       No        4                  -           -                   4  OAS0  0.2                                                  0.2
Subised                                                                                                         1.3           -                        -1.3
Pkhw                                  No        I      -     -     -     -     I      -     .      2     2   2.0            -                2.0                 4.0
Fouv-WmiI Ddv                         No        I            -     -     -    I       -     -      2 225   2.3        -                      2.3           -    4.5
T_a  forow                            No        I O                 I                 -     -      2     1   1.0                             1.0           -    2.0
Moosq.                                No        1     -      -     -     e     1            . 0    2   0.3   0.3                         - 0.3       -           0.6
SubSd                                                                                                           5.6      -_               _    5.6       _        11.1
_iMoN                                                                                                             6.9   4.0            -         5.6     -     -    16.5
0_nd Pwmwt Fa Faaw
FoM.Gmm_                               _Isn       1    2      3     4      5                  -     15     7   7.0  14.0  21.0  28.0  35.0       -     -105.0
Trn.SuNs                 8dkt    0.1   0.20.5   O                          1 A.6                           I   01   0.20.50O             1.0                  - -    6
LspamSoak                              to"       10   S0    75    75   100   150   150   200    610   0.2   2.0  10.0  IS.0  15.0  20.0  30.0  30.0  40.0  162.0
MakWToosinTe                            la"       2     4     6    10    14   20    40    40    136   0.2   0.4   0.8   1.2   20  21   40   8.0 60                27.2
Smh                                    loln       2     4     6    10    14   20    40    40    136   0.2   0.4   0.8   1.2   2.0   2.8   4.0   8.0   8.0   27.2
ONn                                     loon      1    2      3     4      5     6     7      U     36   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.3   0.4  O0S   08   0.7   0.8    3.6
IbmQ                                                                                                             10.0  26.0  39.2  48.2  62.1  36.6  46.7  56.   327.6
sm    o*. A Al Work
C  o   k Cor_nw
T.O. 50 SOU      ul   N)            No        6     6      .           -     - -          -     12   2.Z  15.0  15.0                     -  - - 30.0
Slmp - 300 L  h(Smeun)              No        3     3      -     -           -            -      6   2.5   7.5   7.5      -     -      - -               -    15.0
Slmp - S5UIm(Uq. N)                 No       15   15       .     .     -     -            -    30  0.16   2.4   2.4       -     -     -      -           -    4.8
Sop - So Lkm (Semen)                No       12   12       .     .     -     .      -     .    24   0.2   2.4   2.4                                            4   8 -  -  4.
Samg - 35 LiU  (Senw1}              No      800   680      -     - a m              .     .  1.680  0.16 128.0 140.8                                         268.8
S9Mge-7Uurns(Seme)                  No        -  100   200   200   200   300              -  1.000  0.06          8.0  16.0  16.0  16.0  24.0      -          80.0
Sloag- BA-3 (Smun)                  No            5 S00  50   S00   300            .     -  1.800  0.06     -  30.0  30.0  30.0  18.0       -     -     .   108.0
SubtS1                                                                                                      155.3 206.1  46.0  48.0  34.0  24.0      -     -   511.4
Hos Pke                               LS                                                                        -   1.0     -           .      -     -     -     1.0
AJ. Gun                               No    1,000 1,000   400   400   400      -      -     -  3.200 0.001   1.0   1.0   0.4   0.4   0.4       -     -     -    32
Mis. xi. Eq*                          No      900 1t06O   2W0  200   300       -            -  2.680  0.01   9.0  10.8   2.0   2.0   3.0             -     -   26.8
AI. Crush (EqAp)                      No      500   500   500      -            . -         .  1.500  0.04  20.0  20.0  20.0            .      -     -     -   60.0
Castmom                               No      500     -      -                        -     -   500  0.07  35.0                -        -                  -    35.0
LiUwSoc  Pag 1 d 



Subtotal                                                                                                   220.3 238.9  68.4  48.4  37.4  24.0               637.4
Vehicles
Car                                  No        1            -    -           1                  2    2   2.0       -    -      -         2.0                 4.0
Jis                                  No        6     -      -    -    -    6                    12    2  12.0            -     -     -12.0                  24.0
Motor Cycbs                          No        a            -    -    -    6        -          12   0.3   1.8      -                     1.8  _      -       3.6
Subtotal                                                                                                    15.8     -    -               15.8           -   31.6
Subtotal                                                                                                     236.1 238.9  68.4  48.4  37.4  39.8        -      669.0
VebtrI-y Epidemkln
PAelof  Diagostc Laboatory
cilvi Woas                          Bdgs             3                                          3    10         30.0                                        30.0
Ma1Niwy & Eq rment                   Set             3           -           -                  3   25          75.0                             -         76.0
ConpuAsr IoEpkL Init                 No              I     -    -                               1  1.25      -   1.3                       -     -           1.3
Fwlbilor RReg. Di. Lab               Sot             3           -        -         -     -     3   0.5          1.5                                         1.5
Subeld                                                                                                           107.8           -                           107.8
Ei or EsL D. hwt. Lab                  No              7                       -            -     7    10      -  70.0     -     -                            70.0
Vshi
For Epid Unis                        No        I                    -        1      -           2  225   2.3          -        -         2.3                4.5
For rbl   hws Unks                   No        7     -           -    -    7                   14  2.25  15.8         -        -        15.8               31.5
Subl_li                                                                                                     18.0     -                    18.0               36.0
SCbbdo                                                                                                        18.0 177.8     -     -    -  18.0      -         213.8
RRe    -ROtlbe
C_ Offie
Plo ropie                          No        I                                                I -   -      1   1.0  -    -   -     .                       1.0
Fax Machin                         No        I                                                I - .  .  -   1  I   1.0  .    .  .        .    -      -    1.0
Sued Cuaer                         No        I     -                                          I -  -  -  -  -  1  0.15   0.2             -     -    -    0.2 
Con dPrInsr                        No        2     .                  - - -    .              2  1.25   2.5      -                     - - .  .    -       2.5
OMe FUMIk_                         La                                                                    0.5     -     -    .    .       -     -    -    0.5
Mba OUce E,A,                      La                                                                    0.1     .    .    .             . -         -    0.1
SedCupboad                         No        2                        - .  - - -  -           2  0.05   0.1      .    .            - .    - -             0.1
SeWmti                                                                                                     5.4     .    -      -     .     -           - 5   5.4
Hdoeml(l0m -a)          N       o                    1  -              -   -                    I -  1    15  -  15.0    -                 -           .   15.0
P_rPkTmgC _mwm                       No        .    2      2     2     2     2                 I   10    5     10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0 l          -   50.0
C-mlta Rarui Audlodwn                La                                                                          5.0     -     -    -      -     -           5.0
Dlt O_ (SIMS
smod caw                           No        6     o     5     -     -            -     .    17  0.15   0.9   0.9   0.8      -    -      -     .           2.6
Oce Furdkh                         Set       6     8     5     .    -       .     .     .    17   O.S  3.0   3.0   2.5       -    .      -     .           8.5
Mlem ON= E4p.                      Set       6     6  5        . -      -                     17   0.1   0.8   0.6  0.5                  - -    -          1.7
Slel Cubooed                       No       12    12    10                 -                 340.05  0.6  0.6  0.5           -              -  -           1.7
Mlsc IeMDemoEquip                  Set       6     6     5     -     -      .     .     .    17     1   6.0  6.0   5.0       .    -      -                17.0
Telvion Se                         No      1 a          -           -                        18   0.2   3.6     -         -   -    -    -                 3.6
VC MPbyW                           No       Is           -    -      .      -                 18  0.25   4.5                                               45 -  -  -    4.5
Vido Cas                           No      100     -     -           -            .     .   100  0.03   3.0      --                   -        .           30
Fl PoheF NO                                 is                                    . -         18   0.2   3 o                 .           -     -           3.6
0   jhad P~                        No              -     - t o       -                        18  0.08   1.4                 -     - -                     1.4
11wn P, lor                        No       1      -     .     -            -                 18   0.2   3.6                       -     -           .    3.6
Poiedlelpee_qarSt                  No       18     -     -    -                               18   0.1   1 -                                      .        1.
P,jg   bugint                      No       1s                              . -    -    -    18  0.02   0.4                  - -            -        -    0.4
WL E*4L go                         No        2                                                2 -        2I o    -    -                 2                  2.0
Pdh d   lim F8m                   No        3     4     3                  -        -        10    1   3.0   4.0   3.0      -                 . -        10.0
F eoC.e                            No       7n   9f    72                  -                240 0.001   0.    0.1  0.1                                     02
LUv_d  Page2 d a



StillPhokbgiS lS                   No        5     5     5                                    15   0.1   0.5   0.5   0.5                   *                 1.5
Sublota                                                                                                    38.6  15.7  12.8              -         -          67.1
Training Cantfs
AudioVUal                          Set       2     2     2     2      1           -            9   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.1      -                 0.9
Vehicles
Extenuionmi n                      No        6     6     6      .     .    6      5     a     36     2  12.012.0  12.0              -12.0  12.0  12.0   72.0
doocyles or SMS & SMSC             No       10    10   10       -                             30   0.3   3.0   3.0   3.0                         -     -    9.0
Mo: rtBlockLeolVats(Loan)          No       50    50    50      -           -           -   150   0.3  15.0  15.0  15.0             -     -                45.0
Buses (22 sotds)                   No        2                             2            -      4     5  10.0         _                  10.0           -   20.0
Sblota                                                                                                     40.0  30.0  30.0           -  22.0  12.0  12.0  146.0
Subtotal                                                                                                     78.8  75.9  53.0  10.2  10.1  32.0  12.0  12.0  284.0
S4bteS                                                                                                         84.1  75.9  53.0  10.2  10.1  32.0  12.0  12.0  289.3
hil Senn Purchase/a                      Ls                                                                    56.0     -     -           -            -          56.0
Bwpea Livestock lr_edk Farm
ClNN Works
Repak Exist  Cowsds                  Ls                                                                          10.0     ,     ,        ,                    10.0
Constr. of Now Cowshmds              No        2      -                       -           -      2   2.5   5.0      -     .           -                        5.0
Consu. o CaJ Pe                      Ls        2            -           .     -     -            2   2.5   5.0                                     -     -    5.0
Watr Facibis for Aninals             Ls                                                                     1.0     -           -     -     -      -    -    1.0
Ouele for MnWer                      No        I      -     -           -     -     -            1    4   4.0                   -     -            -     -    4.0
Quarters k Vol. Aft. Susan            Is       I            -           -     -     -            1    3   3.0                   -     -     -      -           3.0
sou s for Aledats                    LS        6         -     -           -                     6     I   6.0      -           -           -            -    6.0
Subtota                                                                                                      24.0  10.0     -                 -      -    -   34.0
Wolp Bddgekw htnls                   No        1                                                 I-  -  -  1  1   1.0                 -         -     -        1.0
Tractor & himnts                     La                                                                    10.0           -     -           -  -         -   10.0             0
Conper                               No        1                                                    -  -  -  -    1   1.0  _        _                          1.0 
Subaot                                                                                                       12.0           -                 -            -   12.0
Jep                                  No        I      -     -                 1                  2  2.25   2.3            -           -   2.3      -          4.5
Motocyda                             No        2            -     -          2      -     -      4   0.3   0.6            -     -         0.6_                 1.2
Sublotal                                                                                                      2.9     -     -               2.9      -          5.7
Subtota                                                                                                        38.9  10.0     -     -     -   2.9      -          51.7
Stwagenig BSl Cal4 Ra-in Fac. tb         Ls                                                                    15.0     -           -     .            -     - 15.
KhenpwarFrozen Seme Pdtn Centre
Ch11 Works
Aker Ltid N Rm                        LS                                                                          0.8           -                  -          0.8
Altr Lab.                            Ls                                                                       -   2.0     -     -                        -    2.0
Ppr  IBu Pamns                       Ls                                                                       -   5.0           - .         -      -          5.0
Oman mr Wat                          Ls                                                                       -   2.0     -     -     -     -      -          2.0
AJor Buldins                         Ls                                                                          15.0     -           .     -      .     .   15.0
F                                    La                                                                       -   1.0   0.2                                   1 -  -  -  .2
Subo                                                                                                            -  25.8   0.2              -     -      -      26.0
Equo_m
Cyoalc Contatnr
Stog  - 3   i0 Ore (Seen)          No        I                  . -         . -                1   2.5   2.5      -     -    -            -        -        2.5
Slom 5-S5 Its (Uq. N)              No       10                              -     -     .    10   0.2   2.0                            -     -     -        2.0
Soagp -45 Mrs (Semn)               No        a            -     -     -     -           -      8   0.2   1.6      -        _-                   -           1.6
Subtot                                                                                                      6.1     -                                         6 -  -  -   6.1
GeeraoDr                             No        I                                                 I -  -  *   *   *  1    5   5.0  -   - -   -                 5.0
Coid Hlarn   Llnil                    No       I            -     -     *                        I     1   1.0      *     *                                   1.0
Chlwlto LUquid N Pk                  No        I      -     -                                    I .  .  1  1   1.0  -          .           . -               1.0
Llkxodc PgS 3 d 8



Freezing Chanber. Carolimete,.etc      Ls                                                                       40.0      -           -            -            -    40.0
ComputeruPrinter                       Set       1                      -      -        -             1  1.25    1.3                               -      -     -      1.3
trrigation Punp end Pipe               No        1      -     -      -                                1     1   1.0                                             -     1.0
Tractor 6 Implements                   Set       1                         -               -          1     3   3.0                 _     _        --                 3.0
Subtotal                                                                                                          584      -            .      -    ,    -        -    58.4
Livestock
X Brad Goals                           No       25      -     -         -               -            25  0.01    0.3         -                     -            -    0.3
X Bred BuLsCalves                      No       25    25      -   25    25                          100  0.06    1.3   1.3          1.3   1.3                         5.0
Elite Jersey Bulls                     No      100   100      -                                     200   0.4  40.0  40.0                    -     -            -    80.0
EliteJerseyCows                        No        -   too   100                -                -   200   0.8       -  80.0  80.0                   -     -          160.0
Eite Goal Semen                      million   0.05   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.2             -          0.65    10   0.5   1.0   1.0   2.0   2.0                           6.5
Piw(Boars)                             No       50    20                                      -      70   0.2  10.0   4.0                -         -                 14.0
Duck Germplasm                         Ls                                                                        5.0     -  _                -     -      -  _        5.0
Subtotal                                                                                                          57.0  126.3  81.0   3.3   3.3      -      -     -  270.8
Vehicls
Jeep                                   No        I      -            -            1     -      -      22.25   2.3        -            -          2.3            -    4.5
MotorCycle                             No        2      -            -           2             -      4   0.3   0.6             -            -   0.6      -           1.2
Subtotal                                                                                                           2.9                         -   2.9      -  _         .7
Sublotal                                                                                                           118.2  152.0  81.2   3.3   3.3   2.9          -      360.8
Kalbapanl Frozen Semen Pdtn Centre
Clvi Works
Semen Pdtn Laboratoty                  No        1                                      -        -    1     8   8.0          -        -      -     -      -     -     8.0
Bul Shers                              No        1      1     - I-                      -             2     7   7.0   7.0          -         -        -         -    14.0
Trakning Centre                        No        1      -               -         -     -      -      1     6   6.0      -      -     -         -         -     -     6.0
Hostel for Traning Centre              No        I                               -  -  -  -    -      1    1   15.0          -        -      -     -      -     -    15.0
Borewell tor Animal Watering           Ls                                                                        2.0     -            -      -            -           2.0
Subtotal                                                                                                          38.0   7.0            -                   -          45.0
Equlpment
Biological Freezer                     No        1      1                  -                          2    10  10.0  10.0             -         -         -          20.0
Cryogenic Contanere
Stor  ge-300titres                   No        1                     -         -     -             2     2   20    2.0                    -                  -     4.0
Slorage-55litres(Lq. N)              No       10      -                  -  -         -            10   0.2   2.0                                       -           2.0
Storege- 45itres                     No        6      -     -            -                          6   0.2   1.2                -                   _               .2
Subtotal                                                                                                         5.2   2.0            -            -                  7.2
Cold Handling Unit                     No        1            -                                       I -   1  1   1.0    -           -                               1.0
F ingIS.lg Machine                     No        I                            -   -            -           10  10.0      -            -  -         -            -    10.0
Photo Carolimeter                      No        I                   -            -                   1     2   2.0      -  -         -      -                  -     2.0
Generator                              No        1      -     -      -                                 1   S   5.0                                -      -     -     5.0
Gls ware a other misc, equip           Ls                                                                        5.0                                            ,     5.0
Tractor & OtherAg. Inplements          Set       2                -        -      -     -      -      2     6   12.0                  -                       _       12.0
Subtotat                                                                                                          50.2  12.0                                      -   62.2
Jeep                                   No         I                  -                         -      2  2.25    2.3      -     -     -      -   2.3                  4.5
Motor Cyde                             No        2                   -     -    2       -      -      4   0.3   0.6                          - 0.6                    1.2
Subtotl                                                                                                            2.9         -     -      -      2.9      -     -     5.7
SubtotA                                                                                                             91.1  19.0                        2.9     -          112.9
Slchar Frozen Semen Pdtn Centre
CIvI Work.
SemenPdtnLbobaory                      No        I             -                  -        -          1     S   8.0             -     -      -     -         -        8.0
uldShadh                               No        I      1      -     -     - I                 -      2     6   6.0   6.0             -                   -     -    12.0
Water Dev. for Anhs                    Ls                                                                        5.0            --           -            -           5.0
Irrigation 61ms lor Foddr Pdtn         No        2      -                  - -                        2     2   4.0                -      -     -     -      -        4.0
Liveslock: Pap 4 d I



oamlesIr mmmge                       No        I                                                 1     4   4.0                            -        -     -    4.0
aaew br V.L AGO. Sugen               No        I      .     .                                    1     3   3.0                                                 3.0
Omdmmb rAuendw                       No        6                                                         1   6.0                                  -6
SubOl                                                                                                        36.0   6.0              -        -                42.0
Micinecape                           No        I                              -                  1     2   2.0            -     -     -               -       2.0
Cayag.Ilc C ortns - 3001 (San)       No        1     I              -               -     -      2     2   2.0   2.0            -     -     -                 4.0
BlOlagIcal Fimer                     No        1                        -           -            1    10  10.0                                               10.0
Cold Hd  Unil                         No       I         -                       -               1     I   1.0               -              -     -            1.0
FN WSeelg Laline                     No        I     -                  -                        1    10  10.0                              -     -           10.0
Geonenb                              No        I      *       *   *                              1     5   5.0                                                5.0
PhWw CdoElmewe                       No        I                                          -      I     5   5.0                  -     -     -     -      -    5.0
Olm mare & eie minbc. mp             LS                                                                     5.0     -           -     -     -            - .50
Ticlor & OUr Ag. _1keet              Set       2                     -        -     -            2     6  12.0                                           -    12.0
ArM*  Wigh Bddp:  Equlpne            L                                                                      5.0     *     *     *     *     *                  5.0
SubWM                                                                                                        57.0   2.0     -     -                 -          59.0
Vddi
Jep                                  No        I                        -     I     -            2  2.25   2.3      -                      2.3           -    4.5
MolorCyde                            No        2                  -     -    2      -     -      4   0.3   0.6               -        - 0.6              -    1.2
Sub44                                                                                                         2.9     -                      2.9    -      -    5.7
SuboDW                                                                                                         95.9   8.0                     2.9                106.7
-kqwl  Semi AiinJuck bsedi
Pig Fwm, I   _Ompq                     Ls                                                                    10.0                             -     -      -   10.0
Gaa Fam. Parbad                        LS                                                                    10.0           -     -        -  -            -    10.0
DudcForm k                             Lu                                                                    10.0        -     -     -        -     -          10.0
Subee                                                                                                          30.0                                              30.0             co
Sull Trin
LaTng  it  Term)
Prnge Teing (@MWAWe  Y Kend)   No           10    10      -     -     -     -     -     -    20  0.05   0.5   0.5       -           -     -     -     -      1.0
NOW F_ly  P b(Ame                  No       10    10   20   20    20    20              -   100  0.05   0.5   0.5   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0              -    5.0
eadA.LP1 A_ y--K  f)               No       10    10   20   20    20    20        -     -   100  0.05   0.5   0.5   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0             -    5.0
Adwed Diagnoe (IVWM -      1ansp   No       10    10   10   10        -     -     -           40  0.05   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5      -     -     -      -    2.0
FoaderPw Paducim( lMly - Kera)    No        10    10   20   20    20    20        -     -   100  0.05   0.5   0.5   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0              -    5.0
D      hp kweeUon (Guwehi)         No       10.  20   20   25    25         -     -     -   100  0.01   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3                    -     1.0
LobThcim n (GuwWwM)                No       21    10   10             -     -           -    41  0.01   0.2  0.1   0.1        -     -     -            -    0.4
Annual Tinknrg Wee                 No      100   200   200  300   300   300   300   300  2,000  0.01   1.0  2.0   2.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   20.0
Sl* TouLs                          No        -    10   10   10    10    10        -           50   0.1      -   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0     -           5.0
EXWnsl        VIAuioVMu            No       20    20   40   40    40        -        -       160  0.01   0.2   0.2   0.4   0.4   0.4      -                 1.6
SUMl"                                                                                                       4.0   6.0   7.2   8.2   7.7   7.0   3.0   3.0   46.0
Overs Tmg (Shot Term)
FrmzSen  Tolow                     mm        -    3      3         -     -     -        -      6     4      -12.0  12.0       -     -     -                24.0
Forep Pdbucion                     mm        -    3      3               -     -        -      6     4      -12.0  12.0       -                 -     -   24.0
EpIdeolw                           mm        -    2      2      -                              4     4          8.0   8.0                 -     -          16.0
Subb                                                                                                          -  32.0  32.0     -     -                 -   64.0
Phld Engie                           LS                                                                     3.0                             -     -     -    3.0
FompgAnonda                       miwk       4     4     4     4     4                        20 1.12   4.5   4.5   4.5   4.5   4.5             -     -   22.4
Subba 11.5  42.5  43.7  12.6  12.1   7.0   3.0   3.0  135.4
SeneAcimy Trilng
Finwe Ces
FodderS Fage                     pe.Mk    50   100  150  200   200   200   200          -  1,100 0.006   0.3   0.6   0.9   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3      -    6.9
Iveback Pop S d a



Dairy Husbandry                   pers/wk    100   200   400   500   500   600   600       -  2,900 0.006   0.6   1.3   2.5   3.2   3.2   3.8   3.8         -    18.3
Subtotal                                                                                                       0.9   1.9   3.5   4.4   4.4   5.0   5.0             25.2
Women's Courses
Poullry                           pers/wk    50   150   200   400   700   700   800        -  3,000 0.006   0.3   0.9   1.3   2.5   4.4   4.4   5.0              18.9
Piggery                           perstwk    50   150   200   300   700   700   800           2,900 0.006   0.3   0.9   1.3   1.9   4.4  ,4.4   5.0         -    18.3
Ducks                             pers/wk    50   100   150   200   400   400        -     -  1,300 0.006   0.3   0.6   0.9   1.3   2.5   2.5        -      -    8.2
Goats                             perstwk    50   100   150   200   300   300   600            1,700 0.006   0.3   0.6   0.9   1.3   1.9   1.9   3.8        -    10.7
Village Industry                  pers/wk   100   200   300   300   400              -     -  1,300 0.006   0.6   1.3   1.9   1.9   2.5        - S          -    8.2
Subtotal                                                                                                       1.9   4.4   6.3   8.8  15.8  13.2  13.9        -   64.3
Self-Employment
Al. Technicians                   pers/wk   100   200   300   400   400   500   500   500  2.900 0.006   0.6   1.3   1.9   2.5   2.5   3.2   3.2   3.2   18.3
ShortCourses forAl. Techs         pers/wk      -   100   100   200   300   350                 1,050 0.006         0.6   0.6   1.3   1.9   2.2       -      -    6.6
Velerinarians                     pers/wk    50   100   100   100   100       -      -     -   450 0.006   0.3   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6         -            -    2.8
Subtotal                                                                                                       0.9   2.5   3.2   4.4   5.0   5.4   3.2   3.2   27.7
Businesspersons                     pers/wk    50   100   150   150   150   150   150             900 0.006   0.3   0.6   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9         -    5.7
Mass Meetings                         No      250   500 1,000 1,200 1,500 2.000 2,000 2,000 10,450  0.05  12.5  25.0  50.0  60.0  75.0  100.0 100.0  100.0  522.5
Privatization of Vets                 No       10    10    20    20    20    20        -     -    100   0.5   5.0   5.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0   _          -    50.0
Subtotal                                                                                                        21.6  39.5  73.9  88.6 111.1  134.6  123.0  103.2  695.4
Subtotal                                                                                                          33.1  81.9  117.5 101.2 123.3 141.6 126.0 106.2  830.8
Total Investment Costs                                                                                             833.1  793.5 359.4 211.3 236.1 286.9  184.7  175.0 3,080.0
Recurrent Costs
Farmer Seed Pdtn: Barham Pur
Vehicle O&M
Pick-Up                               No        1      1     1     1      1     1     1      1      8   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2         1.6
Four-Wheel Drive                      No        1      1     1     1      t     I      1     1      8  0.45   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5    3.6                  1
Motorcydes                            No         1     1     1      1     1     I      1     1      8  0.03   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.2                 0
Subtotal                                                                                                         0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.7    5.4
Seed
Imported Seed                         Ton       1      1     1      -                  -     -      3  1.25   1.3   1.3   1.3       -     -      -     -           3.8
LocalSeed                             Ton        1     2     2      1     1     1      1     1     10  0.75   0.8   1.5   1.5   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8    7.5
Subtotal                                                                                                         2.0   2.8   2.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   11.3
Buikling O&M                             Ls                                                                      0.2   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.4    2.5
Subtotal                                                                                                           2.9   3.7   3.7   1.7   1.7   1.8   1.8   1.8   19.2
Semen Pdtn & Distribution
A.l. Materials                           Ls                                                                       1.0   2.0   2.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   20.0
Misc. Materials                          Ls                                                                       1.0   1.0   1.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   13.0
Vehicle Hire                             Ls                                                                      5.0   7.5  15.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  127.5
Misc. Costs                              Ls                                                                       1.0   1.0   1.5   1.5   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   13.0
Mach+Malnt (incl. Liq. N Pit Spares)     Ls                                                                      2.0   2.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   19.0
Semen Straw/Sheath                       Ls                                                                      10.0  15.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  24.0  149.0
Vehicle oaM
Car                                   No         1     I     1      1     1     1      1     1      8   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2         1.6
Jeep                                  No        2      2     2     2      2     2     2      2     16  0.45   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9   0.9    7.2
Motorcycles                           No        6      6     6     6      6     6     6      6     48  0.03   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2         1.4
Subtotal                                                                                                         1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   10.2
Subtotal                                                                                                          21.3  29.8  43.8  50.8  51.3  50.3  50.3  54.3  351.7
Vetarinary Epidemiology
Vehicle O&M
For Epid. Units                       No        1      1     1     1      1     1      1     1      8  0.45   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5    3.6
For Disease Invsl. Units               No       7      7     7     7      7     7     7      7     58  0.45   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2   25.2
Subtotal                                                                                                         3.6   3.6   3.6   3.6   3.6   3.6   3.6   3.6   28.8
BuikdIng O&M                             Ls                                                                      0.5   4.9   4.9   4.9   4.9   4.9   0.5   0.5   25.8
Livestock Page 6 of 8



Sub_                                                                                                              4.1   B.S   B.5   a.s   B.5   8.5   4.1   4.1   54.6
Coorein Oftm, Exteson
am NW Joum * Dia O0                     LS                                                                      1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0    8.0
Bls and Joum - Tnq Ceree                Ls                                                                      1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0    8.0
Matot  - Teg Comes                      sot       2     4     6      5     9     9     9      9     53   0.3   0.6   1.2   1.8   1.5   2.7   2.7   2.7   2.7   15.9
Puallon Prodn - Tnig Cera               La                                                                      2.0   4.0   8.0   8.0   6.0   6.0   G.0   6.0   42.0
Plepumbof  Fllm Sds                     No      720   720   720      *     *     -      -     -2.160            0.2   0.2   0.2      *-                -      -    0.8
Design ExL P&balion                     La                                                                      QS5   O.S   O.S 5                             -     t 5
Mdrw& Equip. Wirt.                  Ls                                                                      O.S   O.S   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0    7.0
V ,,A d
Ocrovem                    ~~~~~No    6    12    18   is    is   is    is    Is    126  0.45   2.7   5.4   8.1   8.1   8.1   8.1   8.1   8.1   58.7
M_Wyd                                 No       62   124   186   186   IN    180   180   180  1.302  0.03   1.9   3.7   5.8   5.5   5.8   5.6   5.8   5.6   39.1
Buss (22 )oim                         No        2     2     2      2     2     2     2      2     16   0.3   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8    4.8
SublM                                                                                                           52   9.7  14.3  14.3  14.3  14.3  14.3  14.3  100.8
awbOLU                                  LS                                                                      2.1   4.0   5.3   5.8   s.a   8.8   8.9   7.2   43.8
Subkola                                                                                                          13.1  22.1  31.1  30.4  31.8  32.6  32.9  33.2  227.3
MAVISa fed                              Ls                                                                      5.0   S.0   S.0   S.0   S.0   5.0   s.o   s.o   40.0
or     8_pb                             Ls                                                                      0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3    2.0
fWd S&p -                               LS                                                                      1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0    8.0
Vdlel 0SM
Je                                   vow        I     I      I     I     I     I      I     I      O  0.45   O.S   O.S   O.S   O.S   O.S   O.S   0.5   0.5    3.8
MamyeVdlc                                       2     2     2      2     2     2     2      2     le  0.03   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1 Q.1   0.1   0.1   0.1  O.S
Tf,I                                 Vnhi       I     I      I     I     I     I      I     I      8  0.45   O.S   O.S   O.S   O.S   O.S   O.S   O.S   O.S    3.8
Suol                                                                                                            T.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   TO   1.0   1.0   1.0    7.7          
lMg  Ow                                 Ls                                                                      2.3   2.8   2.8   2.8   2.8   2.8   2.8   2.8   21.7               x0
eblot                                                                                                             9 5  10.0  1Q.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0   79.4               -
An" FdW                                 La                                                                      5.0   S.0   S.0   S.0   S.0   S.0   S.0   S.0   40.0
0ni  8_p                                LS                                                                      0.3   0.3   03    0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3    2.0
pawl &   _pk                            LS                                                                      1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0    8.0
JNp                                  vowi       I     I      I     I     I     I      I     I      8  0.45   O.S   O.S   O.S   O.S   O.S   O.S   O.S   O.S    3.8
MooOd                                Vdhle      2     2     2      2     2     2     2      2     16  0.03   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1       O.s
Traor                                Vowi       I     I      I     I     I     I      I     I      8  0.45   O.S   O.S   O.S   O.S   O.S   0.5   O.S   O.S    3.6
Subloa                                                                                                          1.0   1.    1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0    7.7
&Bv dhg                                 Ls                                                                      2.4   2.S   2.6   2.8   298   2.7   2.7   2.7   20.8
Subw.S                                                                                                            9.6   9.8   9.8   9.8   9 8   9.9   9.9   9.9   78.5
K h"   F. Sunn Pdtn Come
AImid F                                 LS                                                                      5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   5.0   40.0
OrO &WS                                 Le                                                                      0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3  0Q3   0.3    2.0
FWd &pes                               Ls                                                                      1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0    8.0
Jp                                   vowk       I     I      I     I     I     I      I     I      8  0.45   O.S   O.S   O.S   O.S   O.S   0.S   O.S   O.S    U.
MoKbd                                vowk       2     2     2      2     2     2     2      2     10  0.03   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1       O.S
Torae                                Vdil       I     I      I     I     I      I     I     I      0   0.45   O.S   O.S   0.5   O.S   O.S   O.S   O.S   O.S    3.8
Oub_                                                                                                            1 D    1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0    7.7
_"OUI                                   Ls                                                                      3.0   8.8   8.8   8.9   8.9   9.0   9.0   9.0   63.4
8ubbS                                                                                                            10.2  14.0  18.0  16.1  102  18.2  16.2  18.2  121.0
TOWl RAIw  Coew                                                                                                    70.5  97.8 122.9 127.2 1292  129.4 125.2 129.5  931.7
Telld                                                                                                             903.7 891.4 482.2 3,4  365.3 418.3 309.9 304.5 4.011.7



I. SemenVA be' hnpadeI be cil semen gos wio poducSicn
bAl L-hi wd KAb Tol
0PI
02
Lbkeesi=L PquIa la



Inria
Asaun Rura lnfrastnwure and Agricktual Seivkes Poject
Table 201. Irulgalion
Detailed Costs
(Rs Lakh)
Ouantitles                       Unit                        Base Cost
UnIt 9S/96 96/97 97198 98{99 99100 OOU1l 01102 02103  Total Cost 95t96 96/97 97/98 9899  99HD0  00101  01/02 02193  Total
hwestmutnt Costs
Now      n  Schwrws
Shallow Tubewals
Cvl Works(9 of TAWes) No      -  500 1,990 2,855 3,000 3.000 2,500 1.155 15,000  0.08         40.0 159.2 228.4  240.0  240.0 200.0  92.4 1,200.0
Eqcilpnat             Set     -  S00 1.990 2,B55 3.000 3,000 2,500 1.155 15,000  0.12         60.0 238.8 342.6  360.0  360.0 300.0 138.6 1,800.0
Subtotal                                                                                       100.0 398.0 571.0  600.0  600.0 500.0 231.0 3,000.0
RbehabltatIon Schenwe
Deep Tubewells (33hp)
CIvA Works            No           17   25   32   35   30    18              157  0.65     -  11.1  16.3  20.8   22.8   19.5  11.7      -  102.1
Eqpm"n                Set     -   17   25   32   35    30    18         -   157  3.65         62.1  91.3 116.8  127.8  109.5  65.7       -573.1
Subtotal                                                                                     -  73.1 107.5 137.6  150.5  129.0  77.4      -  675.1
Deep Tubewelbs (25lh)
Cvbworbs              No           18   26   32   36    33    18        -   163  0.65      -  11.7  16.9  20.8   23.4   21.5  11.7          106.0
EqWinern              Sel     *   18   26   32   36    33    18              163  3.24     -  58.3  84.2 103.7  116.6  106.9  58.3      -528.1
Subto                                                                                           70.0 101.1 124.5  140.0  128.4  70.0      -  634.1
RIvw Pwnpinig Schmnes
Cvi Works             No           24    27   33   25   24    17             150  0.48     -  11.5  13.0  15.8   12.0   11.5  8.2       -   72.0
Eqsipmgen             Sol     -   24    27   33   25    24    17             150  1.83     -  43.9  49.4  60.4   45.8   43.9  31.1      -  274.5
Subo                                                                                         -  55.4  62.4  76.2   57.8   55.4  39.3          346.5
Subll                                                                                            198.6 271.0 338.3  348.3  312.8 186.7        1,655.7
Plot Scheme
Tanks
Chd Works             No                  1    3      1                        5    2      -         2.0   6.0    2.0       -           -   10.0
Trkig                     Ls                                                                 5.0  5.0   1.0      -       -      -     -     -   11.0
ComnpuW and Pw h/a        No      2     *           -    -                         2    2   4.0-                         -            -           4.0
Total nestment Costs                                                                           9.0 303.6 672.0 915.3  950.3  912.8 686.7 231.0 4,680.7
Recurrent Costs
MWa  Reps"r.
New Shuow Tub_ewels     LS                                                                   -   1.0  5.0  10.7   16.7   22.7  27.7  30.0  113.7
Rehb Deep Tiwih (331  Ls                                                                     -   3.7  9.0  15.9   23.4   29.9  33.8  33.8  149.4
Relb Deop Tubewes (25t Ls                                                                    -   3.5   8.6  14.8   21.8   28.2  31.7  31.7  140.2
Rvr PmIng Sdiem         Ls                                                                       2.8   5.9  9.7   12.6   15.4  17.3  17.3   81.0
Tanks                   Ls-    -   0.0  0.1    0.1    0.1  0.1   0.1    0.5
ToU Recurrent Costa                                                                              -  10.9  28.5  51.2   74.6   96.2 110.6 112.9  484.9
Tola                                                                                            9.0 314.5 700.5 966.5 1,024.9 1,009.0 797.3 343.9 5,165.5
InIpgon: Pap 1 f 2



a Onr for AqICI*N. S b U0w htr Inigoion D0 t.
0
higalaft Pag.2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2~~~~~



India
Assam Rural Infrastructure and Agricultural Services Progect
Table 301. Technobogy Generation
Detailed Costs
(Rs Lakh)
Ouantties                        Unit                         Base Cost
Unit 95/96 96197 97/98 9O99 99100 00f01 01/02 02/03 Total Cost 95/96 96US7 97198 98U99 99/0  0O1O  01/02 02/03 Total
Investment Costa
Six Reg. Ag. Rach. Station
Thaher
Fam Developmt
Farm Layout                    Ls                                                                   0.5   1.0   1.5                        -      -   3.0
DTW hIsalation + Distr. Lines  Ls                                                                   2.0   4.0   2.0      -     -     -                8.0
Thshing Floor                   Ls                                                                  3.5   3.5      -     -     -           -      *   7.0
Drying Unid                    Ls                                                                     -   2.0     -            -     -     -      -   2.0
Store Sheo w. Pucca Chamber    LS                                                                   4.0        -         -           -                4.0
Seed Processing Un             La                                                                     -   4.0   2.0                  -     -      -   6.0
Farm Rds (sze 1SW rnn)         Ls                                                                   2.0   4.0   3.0      -     -     -                9.0
Ext. of Lab. Bldg (256nA2)     LA                                                                     -   5.0   5.2      *           -     -      -  10.2
Subtatal                                                                                             12.0  23.5  13.7                  -            -  49.2
Equlipnt & Furniture
Lab. Eqepnt                    Ls                                                                   2.0   4.0   4.0      -     *     -        -      10.0
Lab. Furnitire                 La                                                                     -     -     -      -   1.5     -     -      -   1.5
Genertor ind. hss i. 15KVA     LS                                                                  _      2.0   2.0      -     -        -     -       4.0
Sub8olal                                                                                              2.0   6.0   6.0          1.5           -      -  15.5
Fwm Mac_iery
Tracor + Acessooes             No       1                       -                       1   3.5   3.5      -      -     - *   -                      3.5
Prr Tlo r       No                      1     1           -                  -           2      1   1.0   1.0                              -      -   2.0
Subtotal                                                                                              4.5   1.0               -     -     -         -   5.5
Purchae Animals                   Ls                                                                  0.3   0.2     -      -           -     -      -   0.5
Suototal                                                                                               18.8  30.7  19.7      -   1.5     -     -      -  70.7
Shi-ongni
Farm Development
Waste Lnd Dev. (7.4 Ha)         LS                                                                  1.0   2.0   3.0   4.0      -     -     -         10.0
Inigation                      LS                                                                     -   1.0   2.0   2.0            -     -          5.0
HaN Covered Thiresing Floor     Ls                                                                        3.5   3.5      -           -            -   7.0
Seed Procesing Unit            Ls                                                                         3.0   3.0      -     *                  -   6.0
Seed Stos (200m-2)              L                                                                     -   4.0   4.0            -     -     -      -   8.0
Boundry Wa (I200rm)             Ls                                                                  1.0   2.0   3.0      -     -     -     -          6.0
Lab. Bldg EXtn                  Ls                                                                    -  10.0  20.0  10.0      -           -      -  40.0
Fish PandConstr. (1 Ha)         La                                                                    -   1.5   1.5      -                            3.0
Subeol                                                                                                2.0  27.0  40.0  16.0         -        -      -  85.0
Equpment & Fumriu
Lab. Equpmt                     Ls                                                                  3.0   5.0   2.0      -     -           -      -  10.0
Generaw (kid. lintalition)     La                                                                    -   2.0   2.0      -     *           -      -   4.0
Smotei                                                                                                3.0   7.0   4.0      -     -     -     -      -  14.0
Frm Mchinery & Equipmnnt
Tracor + Aom ioe               No       1     -     -         - I      .                 1   3.5   3.5      -     -      -     -     -                3.5
TechL Gen.: Pag 1df6



Vehkicle
Jeep w. Trailor               No       -    1         -                   -      -    1    4      -   4.0     -           -    - -          -   4.0
Subttl                                                                                              8.5  38.0  44.0  16.0                         106.5
K
Farm Development
Fam Lay&A                     LS                                                                0.5   1.0   1.5  2.0                            5.0
Fam RAdms (I1000 RM)          LS                                                                1.0  1.0  3.0                   -           -   5.0
kla'on & Drage                LS                                                                0.5   1.0   1.5  2.0            -           -   5.0
Farm Fencin (5000 RM)         LS                                                                0.5   1.0   1.5  2.0               -        -   5.0
NOa Coverd Thveig Roor        Ls                                                                      3.5   3.5           -    -    -           7.0
See Pracemn ULil              LS                                                                  -   2.0   4.0     -    -    -                 6.0
Seed Sblr (IOY)                La                                                                     3.5   3.5           -                     7.0
Flh Pond Coror. (1Ha)         La                                                                      3.0              -    -         -         3.0
Lab Bldg CAret.               Ls                                                                      4.0   6.0  2.8               -        -  12.8
Subkot                                                                                            2.5  20.0  24.5   8.8           -              55.8
Equlpmet & Funtu
Lab Equfme                    La                                                                2.0  4.0   4.0      -        -        -    -  10.0
Fwn_a br Lb. dg               La                                                                  -     -   2.0     -    -    -                 2.0
Sublal                                                                                            2.0  4.0   6.0            -    -    -       -  12.0
Fam Mwdh A Equip
Traclor +  Aoees              No      1        -     -     -                          1   3.5  3.5      -     -    -                        -   3.5
Jo"w. Traor                   No       -    1      -                -    -            1    4  _       4.0     -           -        _            4.0
Subal                                                                                               8.0  28.0  30.5  8.8      -    -    -          75.3
fm Dev_apfo 
Fom Lyaoi                     La                                                                0.5   1.0   1.5  2.0         -        -         5.0
Il g -anend Drainp            LS                                                                0.5   1.0   1.5  2.0                  -     -   5.0
Fum Fenin (100m)              La                                                                  -   5.0   5.0     -    -    -       -        10.0
Fm m1                         La                                                                      1.0   3.0  2.0            -     -     -   .0
Fih Pond Cuc.                 La                                                                  -   1.0   2.0        -        -    -    -   3.0
S"d Slar (lO0at2)             La                                                                  -   3.5     -        -                        3.5
HWN Cosid T_reing Fbow        L                                                                   -   3.5           -    -    -                 3.5
Su_                                                                                               1.0  16.0  13.   6.0            -     -     - 36.0
EquipmwiM & Fuwndre
Lab. E*nm                     La                                                                  -   2.0   4.0  4.0                  -     -  10.0
Lb. ExL (llmAl 040W.)           m^2         125                                       125 0.04         0.5                 -    -    -       -   0.5
FA  Mach & Equip
Ta   w. Acommei                No                                                     I -    -  -    -  -    1   3.5  3.5  -    -           -   3.5
Vdd
Jo" w. Talmr                   No      -    1         -    -    -         -     -    1    4       -  4.0      -    -                            4.0
_so                                                                                                 4.5  22.5  17.0  10.0        -    -         -  54.0
Fur kwhbpmM
Fm Laymi                      La                                                                1.0  1.0   1.0      -                           3.0
DTW bIg. & Our. Une           La                                                                1.0  2.0   2.0                        -         5.0
F    k P(1000 FM              LA                                                                1.0  2.0   2.0                              -   6.0
Fm Fniu (1000 fl               La                                                               2.0  4.0   4.0                  -           -  10.0
HA Co_ed ThreFb  Pow          LS                                                                3.5           -     -                 -    -   3.5
Tacit. Gow Page 2 d 



Sa. Shad (100 mn2)            LS                                                                3.5  3.5                                   -   7.0
Fah Pond Conxir.              LS                                                                3.0                   -                    -   3.0
Cb Shed (300rm)               Ls                                                                4.0  5.8                    -     -            9.8
Pouby Shed (2 x I 0nA2)       LS                                                                3.5  3.5           -  _                        7.0
Sub6ai                                                                                           22.5  21A   9.0           - .         -    -  53.3
Lob Em  (125nA2)               nA2          125           .    .            .        125  0.04          5 S.0        -        -    -         -   5.0
Ankb  end BWds                  IS                                                                1.0  2.0  1.0         -    -         -         4.0
E*upmen & Fumuwte
Ld EqLip                      LS                                                                1.0  2.0  3.0  3.0   1.0       -    -         10.0
Fam Mmd & Equip
TMr * Aores                   No      1     1          -    -    -       -          2   3.5   3.5  3.5      -    -      -    -    -    -   7.0
Jeep w.Tuor Tb ND                     I     '         '                         -    1    4   4.0       -          -        - '                4.0
$Ubbl                                                                                              32.0  34.3  13.0  3.0   1.0           -        83.3
ow.
lrm Dmwelpmen
Fam ln  lA                    L                                                                2.0  2.0  1.0      -           -    -          5.0
Fam Fendg (500W FM            LS                                                                2.0  2.0  1.0            -    -            -   5.0
Cmmd T     *igP Roa {(lOmW2)   Is                                                               3.5                                            3.5
Coo Sd 00 mQ)                 Is                                                                4.0  5.8     -    -      -     -    -          9.8
Pau*y SWd (2x100ft^2)         LS                                                                3.5  3.5              -    -    -              7.0
SloueShed(1m)                 Ls                                                                  .   3.5                      *    *    ,   3.5
_ubo"                                                                                            15.0  16.8  2.0           -     -    -    -  33.8
Ls ExF (150,w2                 m^2          150     -           -     -    -         150  0.04     -   6.0     -           -     -    -    -   6.0
Abnk  end Birds                 LS                                                                1.0  2.0  2.0      -     -     -    -    -   5.0
Es -meo & Fwniltw
Lo Eqimet                     Ls                                                                1.0  4.0  4.0   1.0      -     -    -    -  10.0
P.m Mmh & Equip
Tior e   s                    No            -                       - -         -    1   3.5   3.5                    -     -        -    -   3.5
Jmp w.Ture                    No      -    1            -    -            -    -    1    4        -  4.0           -                 -    -   4.0
_dbkktd                                                                                           20.5  32.8  8.0  1.0                         -623
subs"                                                                                               92.3 186.2 132.2  38.8   2.5      -          - 452.0
Fm L1W                        LS                                                                1.0  1.0           -     -    -    -           2.0
DTW  uig. & Dietr. LUe        LS                                                                3.0  5.0     -                       -    -   8.0
Fm Rds (800 RM)               Ls                                                                2.0  2.0     -    -      -    -    -    .   4.0
Fum Fendtc  (1000 RM)         La                                                                2.0  4.0  4.0      -                 -    -  10.0
C. Shed300mw                  LS                                                                4.0  5.8              -        -    -    -   9.8
PauShay d( 2 x SNW2)          La                                                                3.5                                            3.5
Foed Sse (10mA)               La                                                                  -  3.5     -     -        -        -    -   3.5
Fish Pond Conr. (1 Ha)        Ls                                                                3.0    -    -    -       -    -    -    -   3.0
subl"                                                                                            18.5  21.3  4.0     -     -           -    -  43.8
Lab Ezen (10OOr2 0.004)       mW2          125     -    -    -    -                 125  0.04     -   5.0              -        -    -    -   5.0
Aninds rd Brds                  Ls                                                                1.5  1.5  2.0  1.5   1.0       -    -    -   7.5
Equipme  & FwnUtwI
La. Eq*mr4                    Ls                                                               2.0  4.0  4.0       -           -    -    -  10.0
Tech. Gen.: Page 3 o 6



Form Machiney and Equlprent
Tractor + Accesso s             No      I                                                 1   3.5   3.5      -                  -           -     -   3.5
Vehices
Jeep w. Trailor                 No       -    1            -      -                 -     1     4          4.0            -           -     -     -   4.0
Subtotal                                                                                                25.5  35.8  10.0   1.5   1.0 1          -     -  73.8
HortcLiture Rech Centr
Kahtwchi
Farm Development
Farm Layout                     Ls                                                                   1.0   1.0   1.0            -     -     -     -   3.0
Farm Fencing (500 RM)           Ls                                                                   1.0   2.0   2.0     -      -     -     -     -   5.0
Irrigation                      Ls                                                                   1.0   2.0   2.0     -      -     -                5.0
Store Shed (100mrn2)            LS                                                                   3.5                        *     *     *          3.5
Green Huse                      Ls                                                                         5.0            -     -     -     -     -   5.0
Subtotal                                                                                               6.5  10.0   5.0         -           -     -      21.5
LabConstr.                       mA2          430            -     -            -     -  430  0.04       -  17.2               -        -     -     -  17.2
Equipment & Furnitre
Lab Equip.                      Ls                                                                   2.0   2.0   4.0   2.0            -           -  10.0
Farm Mach & Equip
Tractr + Acoassorie             No      I                        -      -           -    1   3.5   3.5       -     -     -      -     -     -     -   3.5
Vehkcls
Jeep w. Traibr                  No            1                  -      -     -           1     4  _       4.0               -        -     -     -   4.0
Subotal                                                                                                 12.0  33.2   9.0   2.0      -     -     -         56.2
Fieherle Rich Center
Jorhat
Farm Development
Farm Layout                     Ls                                                                   1.0   1.0   2.0     -      -                      4.0
Irriation & Drainage            Ls                                                                   1.0   2.0   2.0            -     -     -     -   5.0
Farm Fencing (600rm)            Ls                                                                         3.0   3.0     -            -     -     -   6.0
ConsUDev. of Fih Pands (1 Ha)   Ls                                                                     -   3.0   2.0     -      -     -     -     -   5.0
Cattlshd (200mA2)               Ls                                                                   3.5   3.5     -            -           -     -   7.0
Poultry Shed (2x50mA2)          LS                                                                   3.5           .     -                  -     -   3.5
Subtotal                                                                                               9.0  12.5   9.0     -      -     -     -     -  30.5
Equlpmnwt & Furniture
Lab. Equipmwnt                  Ls                                                                   2.0   2.0   4.0   2.0      -     -     -     -  10.0
Dev. of Plaslicuitue inrastucture  Ls                                                                  1.0   1.0   0.5     -            -     -     -   2.5
Farm  chinery & Equ4imnt
Trector + Acoessorie            No      1                  -     -            -     -     1   3.5   3.5            -                     -     -       3.5
Vehile
Jeep w. Tralor                  No      1                 -            - -               1     4   4.0      -                  -     -     -     -   4.0
Animls a Birds                    Ls                                                                   0.5   1.0   1.5      --                      -   3.0
Subtotal                                                                                                20.0  16.5  15.0   2.0      -           -         53.5
Farming Stm Rsch
Consultants                         IS                                                                   3.2   2.4                  -     -     -     -   5.7
Study Tours                         LS                                                                   3.9   3.9               -        -     -     -   7.7
Diagosc Surv                        Ls                                                                   0.2   0.7   0.7   0.7   0.5      -           -   2.9
On-Station Reeea,ch                 Ls                                                                         0.7   1.8   1.8   1.8      -     -     -   6.1
On-Farm Trials                      Ls                                                                         0.5   2.3   2.3   2.3      -                7.3
SubtoWl                                                                                                    7.3   8.2   4.8   4.8   4.5            -     -  29.6
Total inwutent Costs                                                                                       157.1 279.9 171.0  49.1   8.0      -            - 665.1
Tech. Gen.: Page 4 of 6



Recurrnt Costa
Six RA9. Ag. Rsch. Stations
TanVg Alowus                     Ls                                                                 0.2   02   0.2   02   0.2   02   02   0.2   1.6
Fweiiw. PjsideMr.                Ls                                                                 0.2   02   0.2   0.2   02   02   02   0.2   1.6
POL                              La                                                                 0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.6
Wages                            LS                                                                 0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   3.2
Vehice Mouenancs                 La                                                                 0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.6
awigO&m                          La                                                                 0.5   12    1.7   1.7   1.8   1.8   1.8   1.8  122
Fed Coa                          LS                                                                 0.2   02   02   02   02   02    02   0.2   1.6
Seelalml                                                                                               1.6   2.4   2.9   2.9   2.9   2.9   2.9   2.9  21.5
Trae_ngoIc                       La                                                                 02    02    02   02   02   02    0.2   02    1 .
Fe,fzw. PesIK sIc                LA                                                                 0.2   02   02   02   0.2   02   0.2   02   1.6
Fish Seed                        LS                                                                 0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   3.2
POL                              La                                                                 0.1  0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1  1.0
Wag                              LS                                                                 0.4   0.4   0.4  0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   32
Vehib M                          La                                                                 0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.8
B&Mng om                         LS                                                                 02    12   2.3   2.7   2.7   2.7   2.7   2.7  17.0
Subkcli                                                                                                1.6   2.6   3.7  4.1   4.1   4.1   4.1   4.1  28.3
Tavel AMowas                     La                                                                 0.2   02    0.2   02   02   02    02    02   1.6
Feelker. Pslicds%e it            LS                                                                 02   02    02   02   02   02    02    02    1.6
PO1                              La                                                                 0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   1.0
Wa"                              La                                                                 0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   3.2
Fish Sed                         La                                                                  1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0  8.0
Vehie MWI                        LS                                                                 0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.8
B&lf  OILM                       Ls                                                                 0.2   0.9   1.7   1.9   1.9   1.9   1.9   1.9  12.2
hawael                                                                                                22   2.9   3.7   3.9   3.9   3.9   3.9   3.9  28.3
Travelng Anm          o          LS                                                                 02   0.2   0.2   0.2   02   0.2   0.2   0.2   1.6
FeeE, Peais sic.                 La                                                                 02   0.2   02   02   02   02   02    02    1.6
Fish Sed                         LS                                                                 02   0.2   02   02   02   0.2   0.2   0.2   1.6
POL                              La                                                                 0.6   0.6   0.6  0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   4.8
Wages                            LS                                                                 0.5   0.5   0.5   05   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   4.0
Vehice hMtL                      La                                                                 0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.6
&AfngOM                          La                                                                 0.1   0.7   1.1   1.4   1A   1.4   1.4   1.4  8.6
Subtotal                                                                                               1.9   2.5   2.9  3.1   3.1   3.1   3.1   3.1  22.9
TrvAlw&wm                        La                                                                 02   02   02   02   02   02   02   0.2  1.6
Feathe. P_ddxx                   L                                                                  0.1   0.1   0.1  0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.8
POL                               a                                                                 0.1   0.1   0.1  0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.5
Waes                             Ls                                                                 0.6   O      0A   0.8  .O8   0.8   0.8   0.8  6.4
Fed                              La                                                                 0.8   0.8   0.8  0.    0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   6.4
Ark oel                           J L                                                               0.1   0.1   0.1  0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.8
Vdh Mdti                         La                                                                 0.1   0.1   0.1  0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.6
Min(am OL                                                                                           0.8   1.7   2.0  2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1   2.1  14.8
SubM                                                                                                 2.9   3.8   4.1   42   42   42   42    42  31.9
D"W
Tak Gw: Pop6d8f



Travel Allowance                 Ls                                                                  0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   1.6
FerWizer, Pestcides              Ls                                                                 0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.8
POL                              Ls                                                                 0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.5
Wages                            Ls                                                                  0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   3.2
Feed                             Ls                                                                 0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8  ,0.8   0.8   0.8   6.4
Animal Insurance                 Ls                                                                 0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.8
Vehide Maint.                    Ls                                                                 0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.6
Building O&M                     Ls                                                                 0.5   1.3   1.5   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6  11.2
Subtotal                                                                                               2.3   3.1   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3   3.3  25.1
Subtotal                                                                                                12.6  17.2  20.5  21.5  21.6  21.6  21.6  21.6 158.1
Uvatock Rach. Cent.
Mondira
Trave Allowances                 Ls                                                                  0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.8
Chemicals, MerXines              Ls                                                                  0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.8
Feed                             Ls                                                                 2.0   2.0   2.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0  11.0
POL                              Ls                                                                 0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.6
Wages                            Ls                                                                  0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   4.0
Animal lnsurance                 Ls                                                                  0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.8
Vehie Maint.                     Ls                                                                  0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.6
BuldingO&M                       Ls                                                                 0.6   1.5   1.8   1.8   1.8   1.8   1.8   1.8  13.1
Subtotal                                                                                              3.6   4.5   4.7   3.8   3.8   3.8   3.8   3.8  31.8
Horticulture Rsch. Centre
Kahikuchl
Travel Allowance                 Ls                                                                  0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   1.6
Fenilizer, Pesticides, etc.      LS                                                                 0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   1.6
POL                              Ls                                                                 0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.5
Wages                            Ls                                                                 0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   3.2
Vehile Maint.                    Ls                                                                  0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.6
BulWing O&M                      LS .                                                               0.3   1.1   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   9.8
Subtotl                                                                                                1.2  2.1   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3   2.3  17.3
Fishrie Rach Centre
Jorhat
Travelling Allowance             Ls                                                                 0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   3.2
POL                              Ls                                                                 0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.8
Fedilizer. Pesticides            Ls                                                                 0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   1.6
Feed                             Ls                                                                  1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   8.0
Wages                           L                                                                  0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   0.5   4.0
Insuane o Arimals                Ls                                                                 0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.8
Vehice Maint.                    Ls                                                                 0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.6
Bu'tg O&M                        Ls                                                                 0.5   0.9   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3  9.4
Subtotal                                                                                              2.9   3.3   3.7   3.7   3.7   3.7  3.7   3.7  28.4
Farming Stma Rach
Camnmit  Meings                    Ls                                                                 0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   3.2
Other Op   g Expen                 Ls                                                                 0.0   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.4
Subtobi                                                                                                 0.4   0.5   0.5   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   3.6
Tota Recurrent Costs                                                                                     20.7  27.5  31.7  31.8  31.9  31.9  31.9  31.9 239.2
Total                                                                                                    177.9 307.4 202.7  80.9  39.9  31.9  31.9  31.9 904.3
Tech. Gen.: Page 8 o 6



India
Assam Rural Infrastructure and Agncultural SeMces Project
Table 202. Rural Roads
Detailed Coats
(Rs Lakh)
Qugndties                       Unit                               Base Cost
Unit 95/96 96M97 97/96 96/99 9100 00/01 01102 02103 Total Cost  95/96   96197   97t98   91/99   99100  0011D  01J02  02103   Total
Investnent Costs
RoadConstructon        Km    75   150  250   250  250   250   100   67 1,392    5   375.0  750.0 1,250.0 1,250.0 1,250.0 1,250.0  500.0  335.0  6,960.0
BridgeConstruclion     No           25   50   50   50    50   50         7   282   28        -  700.0 1,400.0 1,400.0 1,400.0 1,400.0 1,400.0  196.0  7,896.0
PWO Design Lab
Computer            L                                                                  37.6                      -      -       -      -       -    37.6
Lab Equipment        is                                                                 22.4              -       -      -           -          -    22.4
Subtotal                                                                                  60.0                  -      -           -              -    60.0
Vehiides               No    25            -     -    *   25        -     *   50   3.1   77.5        *      -       -      -   77.5       *       -   155.0
Consulluat Servioes    Ls                                                                 60.0  100.0  200.0  200.0  100.0   50.0   50.0   40.0   800.0
Road Equipment         iS                                                                633.0      *                      -       -      -       -   633.0
Training               is                                                                 30.0   40.0   40.0   20.0   20.0                -       -   150.0
Totel Investment Costs                                                                    1,235.5 1,590.0 2,890.0 2,870.0 2,770.0 2,777.5 1,950.0  571.0 16,654.0
Rocurrent Costs
RoadMainmnance         Km            -   75  225   475   725   975 1,225 3,700  0.52         -       *   39.0  117.0  247.0  377.0  507.0  637.0  1,924.0
PWD Office Supphes     Ls                                                                  1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0         8.0
Equip OM1A
Road Eqpnt          Ls                                                                  3.8    7.5   12.5   12.5   12.5   12.5    5.0    3.4    69.6
Vehie O&M              No    25    25    25   25   25   25    25    25   200   0.4   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0    80.0
increental Staff /a
Chilef Enginer       No      1     1    1    1       1    1      1     1    8   0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3           2.4
SuperiteningEngineers No    4     4     4     4     4     4     4     4    32  0.18     0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7    0.7         5.8
Excutiv.Erginrs      No      3     3     3     3     3     3     3     3    24  0.36    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1    1.1          8.6
Subtotal                                                                                   2.1    2A1    2.1    2.1    2.1    2.1    2.1    2.1    16.8
Total iawcrent Costs                                                                        16.9   20.6   64.6  142.6  272.6  402.6  525.1  653.5  2,098.4
TOal                                                                                      1,252.4 1,810.6 2,954.6 3,012.6 3,042.6 3,180.1 2,475.1 1,224.5 18,752.4
RuaW Rodad: Pap 1o d1



I



Indca
Assam Rural Infrastructure and Agricullural Services Project
Table 302. Education and Training
Detailed Costs
(Rs Lakh)
Quantities                          Unit                          Base Cost
Unit 95/96 96/97 97/98 98/99 99/00 00/01 01/02  02103  Total  Cost 95/96 96197 97/98  W99  99/00 OD/01  01/02  MM3  Total
Investment Coats
Farm Wonmn Tmg C. 0 Jorhat
BLiding Renovaton
Clw mf/Cornmon rminb           m^2   285              -                               -   285  0.01    2.9                        -        -      -      -   2.9
Hostel                          mA2   825       -      -     -      -     -      -     -   825  0.01    8.3                 -      -               -      -   8.3
Implement Shed                  mA2   100          -      -                      -          100  0.01    1.0      -      -     -      -     -      -     -   1.0
Labmtoy                         mA2   175           -        -      -     -      -     -    175  0.01    1.8                   -      -                   -   1.8
Subtotal                                                                                                   13.9      -     -     -      -                      13.9
Fumitum
Cls mon                          Ls                                                                       6.0            -     -      -     -      -      -   6.0
Hostl                            LS                                                                       0.4                  -                         -   0.4
Subtotal                                                                                                    6.4                                -     -          6.4
Audio Viusi Equip
Ove_wr Projector                 No             1               -      -                       1  0.25      -   0.3      -     -      -     -      -     -   0.3
Skie Ptojecor                    No             1      - I                       -     -       1  0.13      -   0.1      -     -      -     -      -          0 .1
Fip Board                       No        -     I      -            -     -      -     -       1  0.05          0.1      -     -            -                 0.1
Cwnera                           No       -     1                   -     -      -     -       1  0.45      -   0.5      -         -  *         -             0.5
TapRecorde                       No       -     1                         -      -     -       1  0.05          0.1                   -         -        -   0.1
Wlite Boad                       No       -     1      -     -      -     -      -     -       1  0.05          0.1      -     -      -     -                 0.1
DisplayBoad                      No             1                   -     -      -            1  0.05       -   0.1      -     -      -     -      -     -   0.1
Opa   Prector                    No       -     1      -     -      -     -      -     -       1  0.05      -   0.1      -                  -            -   0.1
Sub10tsl                                                                                                      - 1.1        -.--1.1
OMce Equip
Zro Machine                      No      I             -     -      -            -             1   1.5   1.5      -      -            -     -      *     *   1.5
Dpicating Machine               No       1                                                     1  0.27   0.3      -      -     -      -     -      -          0.3
Typewriters (Engi. & Assmese)    No      2             -     -                                2   0.1   0.2       -      -            -     -            -   0.2
Godrej Almirah                   No      1            *        *     *      *                 1   0.5   0.5                                                  0.5
Subtotal                                                                                                    2.5                   -            -            -   2.5
Cooking Equip for Tmg Purposes
Redridgerator                   No       1                                                     1  0.15   0.2             -     -      -     -      -          0.2
GasBumerw.Gdnu                  Pair     1                  -      -       -      -           1  0.04   0.0      -            -  _         -            -   0.0
Subtotal                                                                                                    0.2      -     -                                    0.2
Farm Mach. & Equip
Power TUSM                       Is                                                                       0.8     -         -      -     -      -        -   0.8
Barbed Wre - Goal Proofing Farm    IS                                                                     1.5     -            -                         -   1.5
Smal knplaments                  Ls                                                                       1.0                                                 1.0
SubtW.a                                                                                                     3.3      -     -      -     -      -     -          3.3
Minibus                          No       I            -     -      -     1                   2      8   8.0                   -      -   8.0      -     -16.0
jeep                             No       1                   -     -     1      -             2   3.6   3.6      -            -          3.6      -     -   7.2
Subtotal                                                                                                   11.6            -     -      -  11.6      -         23.2
Educ. Tmg.: Page 1 at 4



Training                        Ls                                                                 5.0  5.0   5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0  5.0  40.0
Subtotal                                                                                           42.8  6.1   5.0  5.0  5.0  16.6  5.0  5.0  90.4
In-Service Trng for Extn Snf
VLEW
Pre-Service Course           rId.   100   60   60   60   60   60   60   60   520 0.024   2.4   1.4  1.4  1.4  1.4  ,1.4  1.4  1.4  12.5
Monthly Cluster Training     No  1,836 1,836 1,836 1,836 1,836 1,836 1,836 1.836 14,688 0.003   4.6  4.6   4.6  4.8  4.8  4.6  4.6  4.6  36.7
Refresher Course             No   900  900  900  900  900  900  900  900  7,200 0.005   4.5  4.5   4.5  4.5  4.5  4.5   4.5  4.5  36.0
Promotional Study            Ind.    10   10   10   10   10   10   10   10    80 0.008   0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1   0.1  0.1  0.1   0.6
Study Tour                   Ind.   200  200  200  200  200  200  200   200  1,600  0.01   2.0  2.0   2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0   2.0  2.0  16.0
Subtotal                                                                                          13.6  12.6  12.6  12.6  12.6  12.6  12.6  12.6 101.8
AEO
Refresher Course             Ind.   200  200  200  200  200  200  200   200  1,600 0.005   1.0  1.0   1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  8.0
Speciai Course               No      10   10   10   10   10   10   10   10    80  0.02   0.2  0.2   0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2   1.6
Promotional Sludy            Ind.    20   20   20   20   20   20   20   20   160  0.08   1.6  1.6  1.6   1.6  1.6  1.6  1.6  1.6  12.8
StudyTour                    Ind.   100   100  100  100  100  100  100   100   800  0.03   3.0  3.0  3.0  3.0  3.0  3.0   3.0  3.0  24.0
Workshop                     No.      8    8    8    8    8    8    8          8    64  0.02   0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2   1.3
Subtotal                                                                                          6.0  6.0  6.0  6.0  6.0  6.0  6.0  6.0  47.7
SMS (Sub Division)
Special Course               Ind.    5     5    5    5    5    5    5    5    40 0.003   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.1
Bi-Monthly Workshop          No    48   48   48   48   48   48   48   48   384  0.01   0.5  0.5   0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  3.8
Promotional Course           rId.    20   20   20   20   20   20   20   20   160   0.1   2.0  2.0   2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0   2.0  2.0  16.0
Study Tour                   Ind.   50   50   50   50   50   50   50   50   400  0.03   1.5  1.5  1.5  1.5  1.5  1.5  1.5  1.5  12.0
Workshop                     No      8    8    8    8    8    8    8           8    64  0.02   0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2   1.3
Subtotal                                                                                          4.2  4.2  4.2  4.2  4.2  4.2  4.2   4.2  33.2
Sr. Off. (SMS/DDA/JDA/Eng)
Managemeru Course            No       1    1    1    1    1    1    1          1      8  0.02   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0  0.2
Study Tour                   Ind.   10   10   10   10   10   10   10   10    80  0.04   0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4   3.2
External Training            Ind.    5    5    5       5    5    5    5    5    40   0.4   2.0  2.0   2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  16.0
Subtotal                                                                                          2.4  2.4   2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4  19.4
Specal Group (Information)
Speidal Course               No       1    1    1    1    1        1    1    1        8  0.02   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.2
Workshop/Seminar              No      1    1    1    1    1         1    1    1       8  0.02   0.0   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.2
Study Tour                   No    10   10   10   10   10   10   10   10    80  0.03   0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  2.4
E)dernal Trainng             Ind.     -    1      *                                   1   0.4         o 0.4                                     0.4
Subtotal                                                                                          0.3  0.7  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  3.1
Special Group (M&E)
SpecalCowuse                 No       1     1    1    1    1    1    1    1           8  0.02   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.2
Worishop                     No       I    1    1    1    1        1    1    I        8  0.02   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.2
Extemal Training             rid.                                                     1   0.4           -   0.4                       -    -   0.4
Suboa                                                                                             0.0  0.0  0.4  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.0  0.7
SubeM                                                                                              26.5  25.9  25.9  25.5  25.5  25.5  25.5  25.5 206.0
Fwnurs Traidrng
Cmv Wodu
Farmes Hostels (550m^2 RCC)    No          5            -    -                        5 24.75        123.8    -    -    -             -       123.8
Fumrn.lstc                     Hsts                5            -           -    *      5   2.5     -        12.5        -        -    -    -  12.5
Trakinng(dofFmrs)              No       -    -  120  120   120  120  120  120   720  0.22           -    -  26.4  26.4  26.4  26.4  28.4  26.4 158.4
Subtoa                                                                                                  123.8  38.9  26.4  26.4  26.4  26.4  26.4 294.7
Extn Tmg Centre, Natai
Cli Wardi
Educ. Tmg.: Page 2 of 4



Otfic cum Lbrary             No       I                             -                 1   14  14.0               -           -    -         -  14.0
Auditodim                    No       -    1                        -                 1    14     -14.0       -           -         -    -     14.0
Clatsoom (50) w. Audio Vomals    No   I                                               1    8   8.0                              -    -          8.0
Houss bt s whuUoS            No             2    4            -     -                 6   3.5     -  7.0  14.0            -                    21.0
Grad IV Sla Ounms            No       2     2                                  -      4     1   2.0  2.0            -        , -            -   4.0
Posy Unit                    No       -    1      -                 -        -        1  0.65         0.7           -     -    -                0.7
CamteLkM                      No           1                                        1   1          1.0              -        -           -   1.0
Fahwy                        No       -                                               1   0.5         0.5     -                                 0.5
Workshop un Gaerp            No          -        1                 -          -      1    2         -      2.0                 -    -      -   2.0
FwmDevuoprmn                 No       I                          -                    1     1   1.0     -           -        -              -   1.0
dglson (STD w. Spb*db)       No       -    1                                   -      1     1         1.0                    -        -         1.0
wat &uppO                     No      1                       -        -        -     1    3   3.0               -              -    -          3.0
Bounny WO                    No       I           -           -    -            -     1    5   5.0                  -  _              .     .   5.0
SUM"                                                                                              33.0  26.2  16.0    -                       -  75.2
Jep                           No      1     -    -            -    1            -     2   2.5  2.5            -           -2.5        -    -   5.0
h     - 2u-                -  -             2                            2            4   5.3     - 10.6               -          10.6      -21.2
Submota                                                                                           2.5  10.6     -     -     -   2.5  10.6     -  26.2
Equlp A Fulnkw
Phoeoapim                    No       I        -           -    -         -           11.06   1.1             -     -        -        -     -   1.1
SkdlPeo9s w                  No       -    I                  -        -       -      1  0.06         0.1              -           -            0.1
Cnaia Pmrcor                 No             I                       -          -      1  0.26         0.3        -     -           -        -   0.3
O_whsd Pvjkow                No       -    1      -           -                       I  0.16     -  0.2                     -        -    -   0.2
Cwwa                         No       -    1            -    -         -              1  0.35     -  0.4         -        -    -    .           0.4
TqR Pbcordr                  No       -    1         -           -            -       1   0.1     -  0.1                  -        -        -   0.1
T.V. Soi Corb)               No       -    1                                          I -  -  1  0.18  -  0.2  -          -        -        -   0.2           
V.C.PN.C.R                    NO      -    1                  -     -    -    -       1  0.25         0.3        -     -              -    -   0.3
F _n*as                       La                                                                 1.0  1.0     - _               - _         -   2.0
babtabI                                                                                           2.1  2.4      -     .     .    .            .   4.5
P. 
TecW (RF 1035) + Au oric     No       1              -        -    1     -     -      2   2.9   2.9     -    -      -         2.9           -   5.8
Po_W TOr                     NO       -    I            -    -      -                 1   1.2     -   1.2        -     -    -         -    -   1.2
Subk8W                                                                                            2.9  1.2            -         2.9           -   7.0
Ca      y Smvis                 LS                                                                0.5     -           -    -      -           '   0.5
Subtobl                                                                                            41.0  40.3  16.0           -  5.4  10.6      - 113.3
ToWlhwsLmlmi CoBst                                                                                  110.2 196.1  85.8  56.9  d.9  73.9  67.5  58.9 704.4
PAmUrwd Costa
Woan Tmnl - Joust
suig O&M                        Ls                                                                1.1  1.2  1.3   1.5   1.6  0.9  0.9  0.9   9.5
fPmw_Ting Homb.
Rabing OAM                     LA                                                                   -   3.1  4.1   4.7  5.4  6.0  3.6  3.3  30.2
Exbi Tr" Cn,, Nbll
&. _r (SoW)                  No             1    1    1    1       1    1    1        7   0.8     -0.6  0.8   0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6   4.2
&.h1uudorstm Agmpnn)          NO            1    1    1    1       I    I    1        7   0.6     -0.   0.6  0.6   0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6   4.2
Pl_ogsph                      No            1    1    1    1       1    1    1        7   0.3     - 0.3  0.3  0.3   0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  2.1
A                             NNo           1    1    1    1       1    1    1        7   0.3         0.3  0.3  0.3   0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  2.1
MsdeIenunOpa                  No      -    1    1    1    1        1    1    1        7   0.3         0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  2.1
Pouby Ku.w                   No       -    1    1                        I 1  1    1    1  7   02  -0.2   02   02   0.2   02   0.2   02   1.4
Educ Tmg.: Pap 3 o 4



Cattle Attendant                 No       -            1      1     1      1     1      1       7   0.2      -   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   1.4
Fishery Attendant                No       -     1      1      1     1      1     1      1       7   0.2      -   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   1.4
Classroom Attendants             No       -     2      2     2      2      2     2      2      14   0.2      -   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   2.8
Chow-Kiders                      No       2     2      2     2      2      2     2      2      16   0.2   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   3.2
Peon                             No       1     1      1      1     1      1     1      1       8   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2 _0.2   0.2   0.2   1.6
Subtotal                                                                                                     0.6   3.7   3.7   3.7   3.7   3.7   3.7   3.7  26.5
Travel Expenses                    Ls                                                                          -      -   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.5
Vehicle Maint.
Jeep                             No       1      1     1      I     1      1      1     1       8   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   2.4
Minibuses                        No       -     2      2     2      2      2     2      2      14   0.5      -   1.0   i.    1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   7.0
Subtotal                                                                                                     0.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   1.3   9.4
Other Operating Costs
Feed (Cattle, Poultry, & Fish)   Ls                                                                          -   0.8   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   4.2
RepairstMaint.                   Ls                                                                          -   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   1.4
Subtotal                                                                                                       -   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   0.8   5.6
Building O&M                       Ls                                                                        1.0   2.0   2.4   2.4   2.4   2.6   2.8   2.8  18.6
Subtotal                                                                                                        1.9   7.8   8.3   8.3   8.3   8.5   8.7   8.7  60.6
Total Recurrent Coats                                                                                             3.0  12.1  13.7  14.5  15.3  15.5  13.3  12.9 100.3
Total                                                                                                           113.2 208.2  99.5  71.4  72.2  89.4  80.8  69.9 804.7
Educ. Tmg.: Page 4 of 4



Aasu fxtW kimsbudum NW AWicu Senrion Pmoed
TOW 303. E3imon
D_md Comb
(R LLah)
Ouuikm                          Unit                       BOMCet
Unk  n     6n 7 N     S71  n61n  n     OUW     01   MM  TaO   coot gun  6w  3713  n       a0  O1  0102 1        Tdal
a -___ W
Brmd Based M Sim
C wim
SDAa OOffc                       No      4     4           -     -     -    -    -    8       7  28.0  28.0           -    -         -        -   56.0
Godon cum Ga,a                   No      4    4                                         a-  -    -    3  12.0  12.0      -    -    -          -   24.0
SoAas Hoam                       No      -    4    4          -     -        -    -    8   3.5       -14.0  14.0               -        -    -   28.0
SMSs Hout                        No      -    8    8             -     -    -    -   16       3      -24.0  24.0                  -    -    -   48.0
Nigi Guards Houn                 ND      4     4        -    -      -        -    -    8   0.8   3.2  3.2       -        -    -         -    -    6.4
SMbI                                                                                                43.2  81.2  38.0    -     -    -    -    -  162.4
V - cW
StaeLvi: CarforADA Exn           No      -                       -     -    I      -    2   1.8      -   1.8    -                      1.8    -    3.6
StleLv: Cw(Pod)                  No            2                      2      -          4   1.8      -   3.8          -     -   3.6     -           7.2
Zonal Lvi: Car brJDAs (Dwer*Tnru)   No   -     -    2      -    -           2      -    4   1.8      -        3.6     -     -    -   3.6      -    7.2
Did Lv: Jeepo(R.pIuienwi)        No      8     8     -                a 8    8     -   32   2.5  20.0  20.0           -     -20.0  20.0       -   80.0
NowJo"pforNow Sib-Dis.           No      4     4     -    -      -    4    4       -   16   2.5  10.0  10.0     -    -      -  10.0  10.0     -   40.0
DedLvi: CarLoan                  No    10   10   10   20         -     -           -   50     1  10.0  10.0  10.0  20.0     -    -    -    -   50.0
SubDvLvi: Molor Cyde Loan        No    20   20   20   40             -    -    -      100   0.2   4.0  4.0  4.0   8.0          -        -    -   20.0
Sulsol                                                                                              44.0  49.4  17.6  28.0    -  33.6  35.4     -  206.0
Eqtip & FurINe                     LB                                                                 -   4.0  4.0      -     -    -                  8.0
9b*4cbJ                                                                                              87.2 134.6  59.6  28.0     -  33.6  35.4         378.4
Fidd TEId SSrion5
acuwads
POtxry Uni                       No      4     4    2               -     -       -   10  0.65   2.6  2.6  1.3        -     -    -    -    -    6.5
CagIeLink                        No      4     4    2      -     -     -    -    -   10   0.8   3.2  3.2  1.6         -     -    -    -    -    8.0
Fehry Urit                       No      4     4    2            -    -    -    -   10   0.5   2.0  2.0  1.0          -     -    -    -    -    5.0
krgaion(STW): SWunider           No      4     4    2      -    -      -    -    -   10       1   4.0  4.0  2.0       -     -    -    -    -   10.0
RPrnoaticmofTmgliHaWlkea         No      5     5                                       I -    -  -    -    -   10  1   5.0  5.0  -    -            10.0
Suootel                                                                                             16.8  16.8  5.9           -    -    -    -   39.5
Vdefes
Jeep Meplacemmnt)                No      5     5     -    -      -    5    5       -   20   2.5  12.5  12.5     -     -     -12.5  12.5            50.0
Equip & Fwnturs
Catsb Equimnft                   Set     4     4    2      -    -      .               10   0.2   0.8  0.8  0.4       -     -           -    -    2.0
PouNry Equprnwe                  Set     4     4    2               -        -         10  0.01   0.0  0.0  0.0                   -    -    -    0.1
Fmheiy Equipment                 Set     4     4    2      -    -      -          -   10 0.005   0.0  0.0  0.0                    -    -            0.1
Sm*ib                                                                                                0.9  0.9  0.4      -        -        -           2.2
Demcbdon Pr
RFoAsed Mu"le CqRpping           No  1,200 1,200 1.200 1200 1,200 1,200 100 1200 9,600  0.05  60.0  60.0  60.0  60.0  60.0  60.0  60.0  60.0  480.0
Low Cost *Fwan Mhimy-
NaturaIDmughtDryer             No   100  100  100  100  1O0          -    -         500 0.025   2.5  2.5  2.5  2.5   2.5              -    -   12.5
Naturl Drying cum Storage Stm  No    20   20   20   20   20          -              100  0.15   3.0  3.0  3.0  3.0   3.0        -    -    -   15.0
Community Cod Chamber Stm      No      5    5    5    5       5                  -   25   0.8   4.0  4.0  4.0  4.0   4.0        4.0         - 20.0
E)dension: Page 1  4



Subtotal                                                                                                            9.5   9.5    9.5    9.5    9.5       -      .      -    47.5
Subtotal                                                                                                             69.5  69.5  69.5  69.5  69.5  60.0  60.0  60.0   527.5
Subtotal                                                                                                               99.7  99.7  75.8  69.5  69.5  72.5  72.5  60.0   619.2
Information
Ciil Works
Info. Eldg: State Level (HO)          No        1             -      -      -      -      -      -      1    22   22.0       -         -          -      -      -      -    22.0
Extn of Zonallnfo. Bldg               No        -     4       -                                        4       1     -    4.0       -                                        4.0
Subtoal                                                                                                              22.0    4.0      -      -      -      -      -      -    26.0
Vehicle
lnbrmation Vans                       No        2     4       -      -      -     2      4            12    5.3  10.6  21.2         -      -      -  10.6  21.2        -    63.6
Minibus                               No        -      1                           -      1      -     2    5.3            5.3      -      -      -      -   5.3             10.6
Subtoa                                                                                                               10.6  26.5       -      -      -  10.6  26.5        -    74.2
Equip & Fum: Stat Level
V.H.S.                                No        -      -      -      -      1      -      -      -      1    0.6      -      -      -      -   0.6       -      -      -      0.6
Edbn9 Table                           No        -      -      -      -      1      -      -      -      1    0.4      -      -      -      -   0.4       -      -      -     0.4
Acoeories                             No        -      -      -      -      1      -      -      -      1   0.65      -      -      -      -   0.7       -      -      -     0.7
Table Top Ofet (DTP)                   No       -      -      -      -      1      -      -      -           3.5      -      -      -      -   3.5       -      -      -      3.5
Phooopler                             No            -      -         -      1      -      -      -      1   1.08      -      -      -           1.1      -      -      -      1.1
GwaeO  (12 KV)                        No        -      -      -      -      1      -      -      -      1    2.2      -      -      -      -   2.2       -      -      -      2.2
TaaRerder                             No            -                -      1      -      -      -      1    0.1      -      -      -      -   0.1       -      -      -      0.1
T.V. Set Color                        No        -      -      -      -             -      -      -      1  0.18       -      -      -      -   0.2       -      -      -      0.2
Furniture                              La                                                                             -      -      -      -   1.5       -      -      -      1.5
Subel                                                                                                                   -      -      -      -  10.2              -   .        10.2
Equip & Furniture: Zoa Level
Furnitm                                LS                                                                           2.0    3.0      -      -      -      -      -      -      5.0
OfEt  Privdi   PawaAAU
SingleColorPrintng Mach.               No       1      1            -      -      -      -      -      2     10   10.0  10.0       -      -      -      -      -      -    20.0
4 Color Pnting Mach.                   No       1      1                 -         -      -      -      2    22   22.0  22.0        -      -      -      -      -      -    44.0
Table Top OHst Mach.                   No       1      1      -      -      -      -      -      -      2    2.6    2.6   2.6       -      -      -      -      -      -      5.2
DTP System (Complete w. Scanner)      No        1      1      -      -      -      -      -      -      2    5.5    5.5   5.5       -                           *            11.0
Eectuic Typewrter                     No        1      1      -      -      -      -      -      -      2    0.8   0.8    0.8              -             -      -      -      1.6
AirConitondr(I ton)                    No       1      1          -      -      -         -      -      2    0.3    0.3    0.3                    *             *             0.6
Prcess Camera (Verbcal Type)          No        1      1      -      -      -      -      -      -      2    1.5    1.5    1.5      -      -      -      -      -      -      3.0
Cotasd Printer                         No       I      I      -      -      -      -      -      -      2   0.45    0.5    0.5                    -      -      -      -      0.9
ReaIuchingDesk                         No       1      1      -      -      -      -      -      -      2    0.1   0.1    0.1       -      -      -      -      -      -      0.2
LUniLlpTtl   w.FihrnDryingCablns    NO          1      1      -      -      -      -      -      -      2   0.15    0.2    0.2      -      -      -      -      -      -      0.3
AUIo Fdlm PrOCeor'  No                          1      1      -      -      -      -      -      -      2      2    2.0    2.0             -      -      -      -      -      4.0
Pbta  and Fln PrCesing Sink           No       1      1      -      -      -      -      -      -      2   0.09    0.1    0.1      -      -      -      -      -      -      0.2
Graining Machine                       No       1      1      -      -      -      -      -      -      2    0.4    0.4   0.4       -      -      -      -      -      -      0.8
Pr NhOn Wheeler                        No       1      1      -      -      -      -      -      -      2   0.45    0.5    0.5      -      -      -      -      -      -      0.9
Printng Down Frame (Fliptop)           No       1      1      -      -      - I           *      -      2    0.3   0.3   0.3        -      *      *         *          -      0.6
Pbbe Developing Table                  ND       1      1      -      -      -      -      -      -      2   0.09    0.1    0.1      -      -      -      -      -      -      0.2
Auto Paper Cuttn   Machine             No       1      1      -      -      -      -             -      2    1.4    1.4    1.4             -      -      -      -      -      2.8
Wire Sidig Mahmine (Double Head)    No          1      1      -      -      -      -      -             2   0.45    0.5    0.5      -      -      -      -      -      -      0.9
Spiral Bindng Machne                   No       1      1      -      -      -      -      -      -      2    0.4    0.4   0.4       -      -      -      -      -      -      0.8
Adhieive Bind      Machine             No       1      1      -      -      -      -      -      -      2    1.4   1.4    1.4       -      -      -      -      -      -      2.8
Lwinain Machine (Rol)                  No       1      1      -      -      -      -      -      -      2    0.6    0.6    0.6      -      -      -      -      -      -      1.2
Pouch Laminator                        No       1      1      -             -      -      -      -      2   0.25    0.3    0.3      -      -      -      -      -      -      0.5
Tin Mot    Mchiner     .               No       1      1      -      -      -      -      -      -      2   0.05    0.1    0.1      -      -      -      -      -      -      0.1
Exdauon: Page 2 o 4



Symbol Peftoriing Machine         No      1     1      -                                   2  0.03   0.0   0.0      -     -     -            -     -    0.1
Performing Machin (Sediond Stop)    No    1     1               -        -     -      *    2  0.07   0.1   0.1      -     -     -      *                 0.1
CoTmbine Rat Fie Making (m/c)     No      1     1            -     -     *                 2  0.05   0.1   0.1            -     -      -     *     -    0.1
Index Cutting Machine             No      1     1      -     -     -     -     -     -    2  0.05   0.1   0.1       -     -     -      -     -     -    0.1
Punching & Gyeting Machine        No      1     1         -     -     -     -        -    2  0.03   0.0   0.0       -           -      -     -     -    0.1
CwmeraScens(16 x20r)              Set     2     2                        -     -     *    4   0.5   1.0   1.0       -     -                  -     -    2.0
Color Filte, Prism, Trays. etc    Set     1     1            -     -     -     -      -    2  0.25   0.3   0.3            -     -      -     -     *    0.5
Fumhiture & Fxtures               Ls                                                                    -   1.5   1.5           -      -     -           3.0
Tools & Equip                     Ls                                                                    -   0.3   0.3     -     *                        0.5
Generator                         ND      1     1            -     -           -      -    2   0.7   0.7   0.7            -     - _          -           1.4
SubOt                                                                                                  53.5  55.2   1.8     -            -     -     -  110.4
bt. Lab. at AU
Sail Phoography Equip             Set     2      -           -     -        -     -        2   0.9   1.8      -     *     -     -      -     -    -    1.8
ColorChromeProosungEquip          Set           2      *     -     -     .                 2  7.55      -  15.1     -     *     -      -     -    -   15.1
Motion Piture Equip               Set     -      -    2            -     -     -      -    2  5.15      -        10.3     -     -            -     -   10.3
Computers                         No      2      -     -     -     -     *     -           2   2.5   5.0      -     *     *      -   _       -           5.0
Sabtoal                                                                                                 6.8  15.1  10.3     -                  -     -   32.2
Subtai                                                                                                   94.9 103.8  12.1     -  10.2  10.6  26.5      -  258.0
Land Manwgerent                       Ls                                                                 50.0  68.1  50.0  50.0  50.0      -     -    -  268.1
Totalttesntvtt Cost                                                                                       331.7 406.2 197.5 147.5 129.7 116.7 134.4  60.0 1,523.7
Rnat Coeta
Brood Bad Extn Sbn
111cafl al Stw
SubDvLvi: SDAO                    No      8     8     8     8     8     8      8     8    64   0.6   4.8   4.8   4.8   4.8   4.8   4.8   4.8   4.8   38.4
SubDv Lvi: Jr. SMA                ND    16    16    16   16   16   16    16    16  128  0.42   6.7   6.7   6.7   6.7   6.7   6.7   6.7   6.7   53.8
SubDv Lvl: UDA                    No      8     8     8     8     8     8      8     8    64  0.36   2.9   2.9   2.9   2.9   2.9   2.9   2.9   2.9   23.0
SubDv Lvl: LDA                    No    16    16    16    16   16    16    16    16  128  0.24   3.8   3.8   3.8   3.8   3.8   3.8   3.8  3.8   30.7
SubDv Lvl: Grade IV               No    24    24    24    24    24    24    24    24   192  0.18   4.3   4.3   4.3  4.3   4.3   4.3   4.3  4.3   34.6
VLEW Allowance                    Ls                                                                  3.5   3.5   3.5   3.5   3.5   3.5   3.5   3.5   27.8
Subtotal                                                                                               26.0  26.0  26.0  26.0  26.0  26.0  26.0  26.0  208.3
Travlhg Expene
State Lvi: ADA, JDA, M&E, EE, 10  Site    1     1     1     1      1     1     1     1    8   7.2   7.2   7.2   7.2   7.2   7.2   7.2   7.2   7.2   57.6
Zonal Lv: JDA, SMS, RO            Site    8     8     8     8     8      8     8     8   64   0.9   7.2   7.2   7.2  7.2   7.2   7.2   7.2   7.2   57.6
Dised LvA: SDAO, Jr. SMS, DAIO, etc    Site   21    21    21   21   21   21    21    21   168  1.07  22.5  22.5  22.5  22.5  22.5  22.5  22.5  22.5  179.8
SubDv Lvi: SDAO, Jr. SMS, AEO, VLEV Site   59    59    59    59   59    59    59    59   472  2.16 127.4 127.4 127.4 127.4 127.4 127.4 127.4 127.4 1,019.5
Subtoal                                                                                               164.3 164.3 164.3 164.3 164.3 164.3 164.3 164.3 1,314.5
Vehicle Opean Cost
State Level                       No      -    3      3     3     3     3      3     3   21   0.2       -   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6  0.6    4.2
Zonal Level                       No      -      -    2     2     2      2     2     2    12   0.2      -     *   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4  0.4    2.4
Diserict Level                    No      8    16    16    16   16   16    16    16   120   0.2   1.6   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2   3.2   24.0
Sub-Div. Level                    No      4     8     8     8     8     8      8     8    60   0.2   0.8   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   12.0
Subao                                                                                                   2.4   5.4   5.8   5.8   5.8   5.8   5.8   5.8   42.6
Oum Opeatng Cosmm
Sub-OlvieionaLe l                Site     8     8     8     8     8     8      8     8   64   0.2   1.6   1.6   1.6  1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   1.6   12.8
B.ibking O&M                        Ls                                                                  2.2   5.5   7.0  7.7   7.7   8.6   9.5   9.5   57.7
Subotl                                                                                                  f 196.5 202.9 204.8 205.5 205.5 206.3 207.2 207.2 1,635.9
Risd TrIW Statko
inawuma_al St
Poulby Atendnt                    No      4     8    10   10   10   10    10    10   72   0.2   0.8   1.6   2.0  2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0  2.0   14.4
Extension: Page 3 of 4



CattleAttendant                 No      4    8    10   10   10   10   10   10   72   0.2  0.8  1.6  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0   14.4
Fshery Attendant                No      4    8    10   10   10   10   10   10   72   0.2  0.8  1.6  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0   14.4
Subtotal                                                                                           2.4  4.8  6.0   6.0  6.0  6.0   6.0  6.0   43.2
Vehide O&M                        No      5    10   10   10   10   10   10   10   75   0.2  1.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0   15.0
Feed and Other Op. Costs          Ls                                                               0.8  1.6  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0  2.0   14.4
Bwding O&M                        Ls                                                               2.5  5.0  6.9  8.6  10.4  12.2  14.0  15.5   74.9
Sub0tal                                                                                              6.7  13.4  16.9  18.6  20.4  22.2  24.0  25.5  147.5
bdarmsUon
lIcr_ener" Stan
VideoOperator                   No      -    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    7   0.3                0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3    2.1
Prnting Operator (Offset Prwe)  No      1    2    2    2    2    2    2    2    15  0.24   0.2  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5    3.6
Subkot                                                                                             0.2  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8  0.8    5.7
Vehile Operating Costs            Ls                                                               0.6  1.2  1.8  1.8  1.8  1.8  1.8  1.8   12.6
Odher Operating Costs             Ls                                                               2.4  2.4  2.4  2.4  24   2.4  2.4  2.4   19.2
on. l Palt Pre"
Chemicals, Ink, Photo Film       LS                                                                -  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3    2.1
Instal. & Elec., etc            Ls                                                                     0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3    2.1
Subtotal                                                                                             -   0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6  0.6    4.2
Bulling O&M                       Ls                                                               2.4  5.0  5.3  5.3  5.5  5.8  6.5  6.5   42.1
Subtotl                                                                                              5.6  9.9  10.8  10.8  11.1  11.4  12.0  12.0   83.8
Total Recurnent Costa                                                                                208.8 226.2 232.5 234.9 236.9 239.9 243.2 244.7 1,867.3
Total                                                                                                 540.6 632.4 430.0 382.4 366.7 356.6 377.6 304.7 3,390.9
In
Exdenaon: Page 4 d 4



Inba
Assam Rural Inlrastnucture and Agricultural Services Project
Table 304. Seed Multiplication
Detailed Costs
(Rs Lakh)
Quantities                      Unit                        Ban Cost
Unit 95/96 96/97 97/98 9699 99/00 00/01 01/02 02/03 Total Cost 95/96 96/97 97/98 98/99 9W0  00101 01/02 0W3 Total
Investrnent Costs
Breedr Seed Production
Civll Works
Sei Condilioned Godown (20 MT)  No          I      I     I    I      I    I            a    4      -   4.0   4.0  4.0  4.0   4.0   4.0       -24.0
PlantSheds                    No            1     1      1    1     1     1           6   0.5      -   0.5   0.5  0.5   05   0.5   0.5       -   3.0
CoerdThresd hg Fons            No            1     1     1    1      1    1            6   0.5     -   0.5   0.5  0.5  0.5  0.5   0.5        -   3.0
Subtotal                                                                                                 5.0   5.0  5.0  5.0   5.0   5.0       -  30.0
MchNney
Seed ProesungEqapment        No       -    1      1     1    1      1    1      -    6    3       -   3.0   3.0  3.0   3.0  3.0   3.0       -18.0
lrffation (STW w. Spti*br)    No            I     1      I    1    1      1      -    6    1           1.0   1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0   1.0            6.0
Subtotal                                                                                                 4.0   4.0  4.0   4.0  4.0   4.0          24.0
Total nvestent Cost                                                                                      -   9.0   9.0  9.0  9.0  9.0   9.0        -  54.0
RePeuont Costa
Opeaton and Maintenan
Seed Procersin Equipmot          L                                                                   -   0.3   0.6  0.9   1.2  1.5   1.8   1.8  8.1
Irrigtion (STW w. Spriilder)     Ls                                                                      0.1   0.2  0.3  0.4  0.5   0.6   0.6  2.7
Buiking O&M                      La                                                                  - 01   0.3  0.4   0.5  0.6   0.8   0.8  3.4
TOal                                                                                                     -   9.5  10.1  10.6  11.1  11.6  12.2   3.2  68.2
Seed Multi: Page 1 of I



I



hula
Asuu Rura k*sucn~n aNd -WAua Se,vM ProdS
Tabe 305. Land Racoil. Plbl Land Cor_
Dubd Costs
(Rs LaM)
Quantls                           Unit                         Be" Coa
UnLk   9U    9617 971S         NM  0011 OAIQ2 02003 Tost   Cost 95,  961    97796 9NM 93    0011 01M   02103  Total
LhW_ Comoddb
Lad Cossl| .
Ven                      NO      4               -     -                     -    4  2.75  11.0       -                        -                 11.0
O0a  Equlp & Furns
Fuff,s                 LS                                                                   1.8                  -           -                  1.8
Typ _U.r (Aamrss)      No      4                                     -     -    4  0.09   0.4       -               -        -                  0.4
Typ_wm (Enrp           No      4                                     -     -    4  0.09   0.4       -               -        -                  0.4
DqpkigMh k*            No      4                                     -           4 0.115   0.5      -            -       -                      0.5
Z.eva.Ms               No      4                        - -          -           4  1.063   4.3     -      -     -           -                  4.3
Td.phwD No                     4                                                 4   0.15   0.6                        -      -                 0.6
SubSl                                                                                         7.8                  -           -         -        7.6
Saew bubuna             La                                                                   0.6                  -           -      -     -    0.6
COimSe.*ss               Ls                                                                   0.1   0.1      -                 -      -     -    02
_ai Tnabti nLRA
W*t on COUrviry        La                                                                   2.0   1.0   1.0      -                        -    4.0
OumclUrl Cou!Y         La                                                                         4.0   2.0                         -  _        6.0
3rn*_lo                                                                                       2.0   5.0   3.0            *         -             10.0
smaa                                                                                           21.5   5.1   3.0      -           -      -          29.6
Lmd Aw
summal                 La                                                                  90.0     .               -        -      -     -   90.0
TrillI [CgCmLmy        La                                                                                                                       5.0
Su                                                                                           95.0             -      -      -               -   95.0
Tol  s "      ImU Casts                                                                         116.5   5.1   3.0      -                  -     -  124.6
LWA   Cos '
Land Colalca
s_11wOs                No      I     I      I     -                        -    3 O41   0.8   0.    0.8          -                        -    2.5
CoranaddnOllw         No      4     4     4      *     *      *                12 03    2.1   2.1   2.1              -        -               A4
Man                   No       4     4     4                                    12 -  20225    0.9   0.9   0.9   -                              2.7
TM"                    No      5     5      5                                   15 0236    1.2   12    1.2       -     -                        3.5
CtnKeep                No      4     4     4      *                             12 0.429   1.7   1.7   1.7                                      5.2
No    20    20    20                                -    o  0.31    6.2  62    6.2                    -                 IL6
PriNaislawrr           No      5     5     5                                    15 020e   1.0   1.0   1.0                                        I -  -  1
ChaminAhAMN    No    24    24    24                                             72  203  4.9  4.9   4.9          *     *                       14.6
inpaatSS__ pl   4      NO            3 2          *     *                        6  035   1.1   1.1                                             2 1 -



Subtotal                                                                                    19.9  19.9  18.9     -      -     -     -     -   58.7
House Rent               Ls                                                                  0.5   0.5   0.5            -        -        -    1.4
Travelling Alowance      Ls                                                                  1.5   1.5   1.5     -      -     -           -    4.5
Vehicle ObM              Ls                                                                  2.0   2.0   2.0            -        -     -        6.0
Office Supplies          Ls                                                                  0.5   0.5   0.5                                    1.5
ConfJMtgs. Publicity for Ec   Ls                                                             2.0   1.0   1.0        -         -     -           4.0
Building O&M             Ls                                                                540.0 660.0 740.0     -         -        -       1,940.0
Subtotal                                                                                     566.4 685.4 764.3     -     -      -     -     - 2,016.1
Land Records
Incremental Cost
Staff                  Ls                                                                  1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0    8.0
Bulling O&M              Ls                                                                  2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4   2.4   19.0
Subtotal                                                                                       3.4   3.4   3.4   3.4   3.4   3.4   3.4   3.4   27.0
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                          569.8 688.8 767.7   3.4   3.4   3.4   3.4   3.4 2,043.1
Total                                                                                           686.2 693.9 770.7   3.4   3.4   3.4   3.4   3.4 2.167.7
L
land: Pas2 d 2



Asuim Rutal Inrastrudure and Arciral Services Projec
Tabe 401. Project rnpte on
Detailed Costs
(Rs Lad)
Ou.tU"                          Unit                        has Coat
Undt 956/  961f97 976 9       930  001  01102 02113J TOtl Cost 95/96 96f97 97191109 9WW          00131 01102 02103 Totl
icw"unt Cost
Vdides                            No       I          2      -     -                 2 -    Z  6    3   3.0  -   6.0     -     -   3.0     -   6.0  18.0
Offil Equip A Furntr
PraOm    Computers              No      4            -        -     -           -        4   0.9  3.6      -                 -     -     -     -   3.6
Modwm                          No      4               -     -              -     -    4  0.09   0.4                  -           -     -          0.4
LzrP*iNr.s                       No      I                                               I -  -  .   1   0.9  0.9  -   .        .     .        .   0.9
Oot Malrb P.nter                No       1                 -           -     -     -    1  0.24   0.2            -           -    -      -     -   0.2
suowae                           Ls                                                                0.8              -        -     -     -      -   0.8
PhotoDi No                              I               -     -              -           1  0.45   0.5     -        -     -        -    -      -   0.5
FaxMad**e                        No      I     -     -           -                 -    1   0.4  0.4       -     -     -           -     -     -   0.4
Fumiur                           LS                                                                0.8     - _         -        -        -     -   0.8
Subtotal                                                                                             7.5        -     -     -        -     -     -   7.5
TrAh   for Poliy Maim, a Sr. Mgt
TrWimg Whid lbw Cout             L                                                                   -   1.0   1.0   1.0  1.0   1.0      -     -   5.0
Traning OAldie Couy              LS                                                                  - 33.0        0 3     3.0   3.0      0 -   15.0
Jsl tatk-   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0                                                                                                          -  20.0           o
Stuxlz xs
Poly StUdieS                     La                                                                0.1  0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1                  -   0.5
Evakudon Sudes                   LS                                                                2.0         1.5         1.5     -     -     -   5.0
Sols & Water Mgt Sdy             La                                                                1.5                                              1.5
Mk     of High Va  Crops Sudy    La                                                                  -   1.5     -    -            -     - _        1.5
Subtota                                                                                              3.6   1.6   1.6  0.1   1.6      -     -     -   8.5
NGO Cal                            Ls                                                                0.5  0.5  0.5   0.5   0.5  0.5   0.5   0.5   4.0
kvova_v Prograns                   Ls                                                                  -  60.0  80.0 100.0 100.0  80.0  40.0  40.0 500.0
Totalb nvesent Costs                                                                                    14.6  66.1  92.1 104.6 106.1  87.5  40.5  46.5 558.0
Recurren Co"ts
hInmt saff
Eswr" eSpedale                    No      I    1       1     1     1    1      1     1    8      1   1.0  1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0  8.0
WonmnDev. Offr                     No      1    1      1     1     1     1    1      1    a      1   1.0  1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   8.0
Economists                        No      2     2     2     2      2    2      2     2    16     1   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0  16.0
Antvopoogi                        No       I    I      1     1     1     1     1    1    8       1   1.0   1.0   1.0  1.0   1.0   1.0  1.0   1.0  8.0
Sopport Staf                      No      3     3     3      3     3     3     3     3    24  0.48   1.4  1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4  1.4   1.4   1.4  11.5
DOr                               No       1     1    3     3    3       3     3     3    20  0.48   0.5  0.5   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   9.6
Subtoa                                                                                                 6.9   6.9   7.9   7.9   7.9   7.9   7.9   7.9  61.1
W      adsipLcon. MtgeK.on.          Ls                                                                0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2  0.2   0.2   1.6
Opwqao  mud Mantrmwe
VehNd                              Ls                                                                0.5  0.5   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.8   1.8  2.7  11.3
Olke Eqvmnent                      La                                                                0.6  0.6   0.6   0.8   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.6   4.8
Subkota                                                                                                1.1   1.1   2.0  2.0   2.0   2.4   2.4   3.3  16.1
Tael Cods                            Ls                                                                1.0   1.0  1.0  1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0  8.0
P$ knplenwadon: Page 1 of 2



Building O Ls                                                                                               0.6   2.5   5.1   7.9  10.9  12.8  12.2  11.1  62.9
TObW Rectntyj Comb                                                                                             9.8  11.6  16.1  19.0  21.9  24.2  23.7  23.4 149.7
Tolal                                                                                                         24.4  77.7 108.2 123.6 128.0 111.7  64.2  69.9 707.7
nppmentAO   Paop 2of2



-111-
Annex 6.
INDIA 
ASSAM RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursament
Disbursements
IDA fiscal vear                 Bi-Annual            Cumulative        %
and  semester                   ---------- USS million---------
FY96
First                           2.0                        2.0          1
Second                         10.6                       12.6        -10
FY97
First                           7.4                       20.0         16
Second                          9.0                       29.0         23
FY98
First                           8.9                       37.9         30
Second                         10.0                       47.9         38
FY99
First                           7.7                       55.6         44
Second                         10.0                       65.6         52
FY00
First                           8.6                       74.2         58
Second                          9.0                       83.2         66
FYO1
First                           9.0                       92.2        73
Second                         8I6                      100.8          so
FY02
First                           6.1                     108.9          86
Second                          7.0                     115.9          92
FY03
First                           6.1                     122.0          97
Second                          4.0                     126.0         100



I



ASSAM - RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
STATE GOVERNMENT ADMINISTRATIVE ARRANGEMENT
PANCHAYAT & RURAL DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT
DDRECTOR
AGRICUJLTURE                                                        -
| JOINT                                       FED                                           DIRECTOR
JOINT           __________      ~~~FIELD                          IACHAYAT & RURAL DEVELOPMENT
DIRECTOR                                 TRIAL STATIONS                        [          DEPARTMENT
AGRICULTUR                                 TRIAL___I__N
LEVEL   1994 To beImp.menhed)   1992
DISTRICT        DISTRICT        DISTRICT            SUBJECT                                       SUBDIVISION
AGRICULTURAL    AGRICULTURAL    AGRICULTURAL           MATTER                   ZILLA     ELECTED    MAHUKUMA                DRDA-
OFFICER         OFFICER         OFFICER           SPECIALISTS               PARISHAD               PARISHAD
SUBDIVISIONAL                                ANCHAUK
AGRICULTURALPACAAANHKBCK
OFFICERBLCLEEPACYT
AGRICULTURAL                                PANCHAYATS
EXTENSION                                 6OO-100                 PANCHAYATS             PANCHAYATS
OFFICER
VILLAGE                                     VILLAG
LEVEL EXTENSION                                                    VLAEEELVILLAGE LEVEL.]                    
WORKERWOKRWREWOKR                                                                                      r 
0
'DisIic Rural Development Agency (DRDA) controls pro-shIftIng
to Panchayats. Other Departments shall shIft.
sadshv51395a



I



ASSAM - RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Proposed Organizational Chart
STATE MIMNSTERS                             /
/  -   - *  *  j  Project Gukdance Commmee |
/ ~~~~~Agthraln Producton. i-, 
/                    Co~~~~~~~mr Issboner _  .
AgrVAHFISH/PWev/F h           .. ................. ............... ..
ProleclmpepmentalaonUrlt    - Un
Stale AgrkuuJral  vawsityl |
Departments           ....      .         .       
*eslei                - - -   .           *
.     .  |         ~~~~~Fiekd Distric
I  * mpbmSaln CommItoa
|   Dstidk Officers       [ 
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I ;- 
-   -  ADM Conbol                            Field Officers       .                   . ..
-.... - - -     1       link kw Proo A.cAls                                               -|    achyaF                                                  rX 
Xlix of Ofikbshn OMtaLsb                                            .       . -        *                                                    w
|   | or                               ~~~~~~~~Rura Peope and B or_.k-                                    UsedGrup
or            F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
*   * * Exlusive People s OrganIzation                   .            -
sas51395b



I



-114-
Annex a.
Attachment 1.
ASSAM-RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
AN INDICATIVE LIST OF ACTIVITIES/ISSUES TO BE
ADDRESSED IN CONSULTATIVE PLANNING
1.        Consultative planning would be carried out by implementing
departments and agencies with the assistance of NGOs, particularly for
activities which would lead to the creation or development of common assets.
This would include most irrigation activities, development of fisheries in
community ponds and wells, fodder development on common lands, and roads. The
intensity of consultative planning would be minimal for the shallow tube welr -
program. For roads, the consultative planning would be confined to planning
for afforestation or other appropriate activities on government lands along
the roadside, and maintenance of drainage works.
2.        The consultative planning would initially be flexible though
attempts would be made to have common procedures and sequencing implementation
of components. An indicative planning module consisting of five steps is
attached.  For the first three steps the details are component wise.  For the
last two steps, a common procedure is indicated, as by this time all the
details which vary from component to component, would have been discussed and
almost finalized. -
3.        If more than one activity is being taken up in the same village,
separate plans and MOUs would be prepared for each activity.  In such cases,
the consultative planning would have been done in a coordinated way.



CO)MVONtiEfr    MINOR   UIDJLATION                        FISIERIES IN COMMIUNrlY ?OHDS                     FODDER ILATATION ON COaMON                       ROADS (for us ofroa side
AND BE.IS                                        I.ANI)S                                          tort. lnd & marniecussce or
STEI                                                                                                                                                          drainnge works)
Stp I               Ssausa.po.ndal and uiliaont of      - CrntatauSge, ondiiosadownehipolwaker  - Curen usage and conuitioe and ownership of the- Curnt usage au  condiLion of
Diagnosde          exisilng Irsigadon bacilites           body to be developed.                             comnmn *mca proposed to be developed.            roadsidc ptYL 1ud.
E xtacIse          (funelonal auu non-lunctional).
*  rTaditional and lecgal ight of usm elib. w,ta   - Curenr requiremenu lor lodderilucL           * Condition of drainage systenru
. Feaibility as per groundwater          body                                                                                               doing different seasons.
axpoidoe moar-.                                                                        Foddet/luel cjlcndar showint how th.
- Oiher eisting areu and potential locadons for    requiscneus   a  mt by differea                 Sysiteu. if any. being cumdily
. Quality of undergiouahurface           fishey dervdopmen In the villagecluster of        classcs/ceCgorieCs Of popIt in she village.      msed fob  maintalnIng drminage
water.                                villages.                                                                                          SystcEu.
-Possible alcsaaassvueu fur grazing. fuclwood.
. Statis of canal alignments for        HNo. of households bcloaging to uiditiomil
existing sysesic  prposd to be         Ilasng omrnurides.                            - No. of grazien and sysienu of enmploymaent
tehnabliated.
* Fishing skills pirvasling in other consniuniies.
-   alsting opboms wilms villge for
Irdpgato dervdlepeaL
Step 2              Idenilficaton and demnacmaon of     - oriEsdmates ofinital lnvestentmnu/mnpower tnal   - Dcvclopiisen of appropriate silv-pamnuAl mnodsb. - Dcvcloprmni of &pKrlwrine nsods    L
Deeopmnei of    ponidal oimad mea,                        would be requimcd fog dewvloping the watcr body.                                                   for sil conscivation on roadside.
Da  Plan                                                                                                     isting out opsiolls wiibin she apilrophitie models
. Dicusions on cosn-lencris shasing   *   iscussion on l Culdt's lhtCisetIdocs so pUaisily  ror gras and ve specics. spaing. pliantng       I.isting out oltiolns Wititii tlhe
with potenial bencridualcs.           or fully dean up the pond tLnugh labor            techniques. ocher soil and moistmre conservation  appropsixiate models Including
contribudon. (Two or thrce models, with boencfit    activics.                                     grasses, annual emln. oec speCicJ.
* Discussions on lumning over of         sharing  propornionatc to conmnunity conUibudon
systems.                              could be developex)                            -   Iildnuficauonofmt  isos for conipenising       Idcistifying nmthods lor
current user                                     compensatsng curntl usets.
- ldcndrficamon of existing FMCs or    * Itknuification of sncthods for coupensating
otha village orgazAdons.              curcnt usern (including fishing eommuntises).    - hicntifiation of grating oltions ousside dic a  IdcndiIying mncluaniasn fur Obhl
to bc developed.                                 activides by village.
- Discussion on and prmpuadon of      *   icchanisnm  for mnanagcincnm and maIntecsance of
dra ptaandt ba  of above              fishery activities.                            - Discussions on cosm-bencrit shaming.            * Discussion on and prcparatioi of
through eonsulLadons betwece                                                                                                             draft plan on the basis of above
Minor lrstlions/Ag. Eng.            - Identificalion of cAisting uHCs or other villUtc   - Arrangcnrnt for protection from grazing. ilicit    thmough ronsultsuon bescnecc
Dcpus./Villse Gmtup/NiGOs.            oaadzadonm.                                       tree eIlling. fire and other nanagemenst medvides.    IWD/ViIlage Gnups/NGOs.
- Disciusion on aISd   pasrajion of duit plua on    I -lentificamion of FNIC/DWICs in village or
the bais of above through consultadons between   villages currently using or enjoying wage rigbt
rishaies Dev. Depatrtmen/Village                 in the am to bo devetlope
GIouS/INGOs.
-Discussion on asd pmparadoe ofdrIaft Fan on the
beds o1f d  abs dut h e      __meiimms bearn
Aniimal Ilusbmndry Deps.lIaadayat. Reveno" or
r-o_rst DCpt am aopdate and NOts.
a 



COMP'ONENr   MINOR IRRIGATION                         FISHERIES IN COhi#4flUNY PONDS                 FODDER PLANTATION ON COMMON                    ROADS (for Ue of roadet
AND 0EEIS                                     LANDS                                          gouL land & malnecence of
STre                                                                                                                                                 dralnage workq)
Step 3         - Ideadltlekeiatzludag FMCs or   - ldendfication of cxising FMCs and oct            - Ideadficatdom of cxistng FMCs and oter       - Fonnml oggasuzaioais not necessary
iduimicao. and   otwat b_taulilarlvfllage gmps.       benefictwytnUige groUs.p                       beatseuicar7hilage giops In vilage or viUages  It r beethu otdevl,cne tfrm
folatleIslen V.                                                                                      with taditionaI or legal usage dgbu In amt beo   roadside Is planned.
tlehing of she   - IfFMCa exist. diaussiomon        * If FlCIFNICS cxiti. liscussion on uwhther      dveclokqd
UerOt,tgazado   wheact hep In emnyai..                fishing cownuiies and laldess an       1                                                   I-If oduction aciviUU with bc*e it
oud be mee  dtugh cegn.                                                            If nmm than one I-MC at viUage enjoys usage    sharing amageaseus am pleamd. an
dirisulaoa hercomr omli.ioa f    - Disciusiona on wiscilscr change i comnposidon   righs tben discussions on whetha do Pro        ap1ropriase Voup. preferably an
wo Idifid gsnup of farmn            ofthe FC would be nceassy for oemgraneal    sbhul be divided and detnxtoted acwodingly or    FMC wouWd have to be identi6d.
asing enos-a  lgatlon fadhiy to    of Pad bench sl xuing from ris"h  devtlomeng    whethr an  ict tody should be lamoed rot sh  mated.
form oVA IL                         acdvidseL                                      developmnens and management of she 5KL
- Refomiad  of FMC, If meary,   - Reromautio of IwC, if sacessasy. aUcig to    If FJMCs do not caiuis    satson of FMCAMCs
aotgldlsg Iss sbov.                 ahbw                                           a2s petr tquimMsentL
(                     If MIC does    WSe e rla t ioa of  - If IMC doea not cLit. fonissiot of sa  AIC as
an" RCofaesbnius of atpsmada        p   uu0tos 
.~~~~~a ofammmm                                      p_u.a o
fails In esu_dtm wish ealsi*g
' enelayile|P Pue
SUP4              Apat Gm do idendficaoo of devalopee actvides, the plan should d ly 1dleee;
lawe           L t  usgm_ FMCwm b               bhdetls szuchu    bea sp  and  eof opeuidou
of do "a        L  11.a-boolkt ;shoigt umge.vns between govanet a*nd use groups
MLe sIbemell hbawing umnag    u between neenbers of d.c u ser grouaP
IV. agency which  d  bwo te spoaibe for lailal ivesmancsm activilis. Whe  eaibe. t&Ms woud  be do  wholly or padly by the susr ostazation
wisb suppcte   los  eaneered detpausna and NGOs. or cuanacteAl out, as alpria54  sow
T. If swast of sysun aw assets is envIaged, as In thc case of minor ifsigiatiss. e edondidonalilics and mcchadasi.u 'of ltunover should l Ic deauled.
SUep S            Didag aod siging of a MMU by ibe mu  otganzsiumn and Ilc imrilenicatsig agency bsed on the fina pilan.
MMU
NOT8a             Two odo  soud be dman  f  mn-                    eing of Orgaisation fas sinl con_oln at brwee. canywoneos in she sum  fs:
0) s f          of uptdik FMICm tw spedlf fmieo.. with die possibility of memnbl p o( FMCa oveuapping;
ii f           ehIlCe*o e_mty bcsi with srmgefic user goups within the FMC or group oFr1Cs.
The I hot m       is r asa an  she srst option. U the second optio is choe.. m poedues eao be sppoiatcly ainodsf
i.
. ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



I



_117-
Annex 8.-
Attachment 2.
ASSAM-RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
LIST OF ACTIVE NGOs IN ASSAM
(a) Dalbari Gramunnayan Samiti, Dalbari, Dist. Moregaon
(b) Jalugiti Agragami Mahila Samity, Jalugiti, Dist. Moregaon
(c) Jalaibari Lok Jagu Samity, Jalaibari, Dist. Moregaon
(d)  Jankalyan Samiti, Mirza, Dist. Kamrup
(e) Kalpatru Yuvak Sangh, Dakuah, Dist. Lakhimpur
(f) Anchalik Gamunnayan Samiti, Jania, Dist. Barpeta
(g) Shankardev Madhavdev Gram Unnayan Samiti, Haswa, Dist. Golaghat
(h) Shanti Sadan Ashram, Bisondi, Dist. Dhubri
(i) Saptrathi Milan Sangh, Mazgaon, Dist. Nagaon
(j)  Bhartiya Jan Vigyan Jatha
(k) Lakhimpur Khadi Gramudyog Samiti, Lakhimpur
(1) Green Plus Society, Assam Agriculture University, Jorhat
(m) Tamulpur Anchlik Gramdan Sangh, Kumarikata, Dist. Nalbari
(n)  Gram Lok Sevak Sangh, Nalbari
(o) Darrang District Mahila Sangh, Mangaldai
(p) Deah Bhakta Rural Development Association, Naligaon, Dist.
Barpeta
(q) Faram Prashar Yuva Samiti, Karimganj
(r) Kaligura Khadi & Village Industries, Kaligura, Dist. Cachar



I



-118-
Annex s8
Attachment 3
ASSAM-RURAL IN    TRUCASE AND AGRICULA  SEICES PROJECT
IBLE ARRAS WHERE NGOS COULD ASSIST IN PRECT IMPLEMENTATION
(a) Carry-out regular maintenance of drain-lines, cross drainage
channels; and
lb) afforestation/cultivation on roadside government lands.
Irriaatin2
(a)  assist in the construction of STW through FMCs;
(b) carry-out rehabilitation of DIVs and surface irrigation schemes;
(c)  carry-out repair and Maintenance of Pumps;
(d)  assist farmers in the selection/purchase of pumps and pipes; and
(a)  act as contractors for installation of STW on a competitive basis
Rice-based Farmina Systems
Ca)   ndertake farming on leased lands; practice participatory
diagnostic research on farming systems and organize training for
VLZV;
(b)  provide short term orientation courses (3-5 days) for Volunteer
Extension Workers 
(c)  assist in organizing supply of seds, fertilizer and pesticides;
and
(d)  organize or assist in organizing repair services for farm
implements.
(a)  raise nurseries on comunty and leased lands:
(b) develop horticulture on counlty lands;
(c)  provide training in food processing, espcially fruit preservation;
(d) organize horticulture demonstrations;



-119-
(e) organize training and provide support for VLEWs;
(f)  organize or assist in organizing supply of planting materials and
other inputs; and
(g) assist in marketing of horticultural crops.
Fisheries
(a)  develop fisheries in community tanks and beels;
(b)  carry-out demonstration of pond fisheries;
(c) provide extension services for starting pond fisheries; and
(d) organize or assist in organizing supply of fish seeds/fingerlings,
nutrients, marketing of fish.
Livestock and Fodder Development
(a)  assist in fodder development on community lands;
(b) prepare demonstrations, especially for piggery;
(c) organize training and provide support to self-employed extension
workers; and
(d) organize fodder seed collection and marketing.
other rnnovative Activities)
(a) practice organic farming and integrated pest management;
(b) carry-out agricultural trials;
(c) prepare demonstrations; and
(d) pilot low cost irrigation such as the use of "zarna,' pumps, treadle
pumps, ring wells, etc.



-120-
Annex 8. Attachment 4.
INDIA
ASSAM RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
GRITERIA FOR THE SELECTION OF NON-GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATIONS (NGOS)
The project would seek NGO participation to assist in formation of Water
User Associations, Fishermen Societies and Farmers' Groups; farmer
mobilization, sensitization and training. GOA would invite from interested
NGOs detailed proposals for collaboration. The GOA would be responsible for
reviewing the proposals and agreeing on appropriate mechanisms to involve NoOs
in the project. The selection of NGOs would be guided by the following
criteria:
(a)  As part of legal requirements, the NGO should be a registered body
under the relevant State Law. It should have meticulous accounts
and properly audited annual scatements of income and expenditure.
(b)  Since the program involves working with farmers with diverse socio-
cultural backgrounds in an agrarian setting, it is essential that
the NGO has a rural orientation. To avoid creating any biases and
misconceptions in the minds of the people, the NGO should not be
affiliated to any political organization.
(c) As the project requires NGO support for farmer mobilization and
field level management of assets nd resources, the NGO should have
adequate number of field level staff conversant with the local
language and customs and having a clear understanding of the socio-
economic and political situation of the area.  They should also
have good rapport with the community so as to enthuse and involve
them in developmental activities wholeheartedly. This ability
should be reflected in some of the projects undertaken ny the NGO
earlier. Good communication skills are a requirement.
(d) A prior understanding of the matter under consideration, and
experience in WUA, Fisherman Associations and Farmers' groups
formation and interaction would be an added advantage. Owing to he
nature and extent of the physical coverage on the program each
selected NGO will be apart of the entire process. Hance the NGO
should be able to interact smoothly with and be a part of he team.
(e) Finally, the NGO should have internal stability so as to assure
long-term support to the project.



I



-12 1-
Annex 9
Attachment I
Paae I of 6
ASSAM RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
IRRIGATION DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION
Simplified Procedures/Guidelines for Undertaking Rapid Feasibility Studies
Appropriate for the Development of Shallow Tube Wells
Introduction
1.    Total number of shallow tube wells to be installed under the scheme will
be 15,000 in a 7 year period covering 18 districts in the state, benefitting
an area of 33,000 ha. District-wise distribution of STWs for implementation is
given in Table 1.
Simplified procedures for rapid feasibility studies
2.    Official records from the Chief Engineer (Agriculture) show that 19,618
Field Management Committees (FMCs) already exist in 214 blocks of the state.
The Agriculture Department should collect information from the FMCs in each
block, particularly on area cultivated, location, cropping/irrigation
intensity, farmer's location & income levels, gender, presence of any other
organization in the location, FMCs overdue position, number of STWs in the
location and their performance.
3.    A 14 factor scoring method to be adopted using the collected information
to select potential FMCs or individual farmers for installing the STWs is
presented in Table 2. A cumulative score will be computed for each FMC or
farmer as the case may be. FMCs or farmers with higher scores will be given
priority for STW development over FMCs or farmers with lower scores.
.Imolementation
4.    Out of the 15,000 STWs, 90% will be developed through FMCs and 10% on
individual farmer basis. Once the FMCs are ranked based on the above set of
criteria, FMCs should be motivated to become formal associations by
registration under the Societies Act. Priority during implementation will
follow the order of registration of the FMCs.
5.    The Agriculture Department, with the existing infrastructure, will be
responsible for implementing the proposed STW schemes. Implementation should
be done through LCB and the Agriculture Department should supervise and
provide technical guidance. The FMCs should be involved in the civil works
related to STW installation.
6.    The STW program under this project should incorporate the existing STN
program being implemented by the Agriculture Department under the Conmunity
Irrigation Project (CIP)  in order to reduce the heavy subsidy inbuilt in the



-122-
Annex 9
Attachment l
Page 2 of 6
CIP. Because only about 5-10 percent of the FMCs are functioning and self
sustaining, NGOs should be engaged to strengthen the FMCs.  NGOs should also
assist in evolving methods for effective farmer participation in project
implementation.
7.    Since the role of women in farming is gaining increasing recognition in
the state, NGOs and FMCs should encourage women in STW investment. Wherever
women show interest, they should be given priority over men in selection and
implementation of the STWs program.
8.    Before the implementation of the STWs program, a Memorandum Of
Understanding (MOU) shall be executed by the concerned Secretary and President _
of the FMC and the Agriculture Department, in which the FMC assumes
responsibility over the STW scheme and cost recovery as per the conditions
stipulated by the Government. An amount equal to one-third of the total
investment for each STW is to be recovered from the beneficiaries in 4
installments where the first instalment is to be recovered before the
construction work starts.  The FMC should be responsible for cost recovery (in
cash or kind) on behalf of the implementing agency.  Labour contribution by
the beneficiary farmers during installation should be included in cost
recovery computation. The FMC can keep 1 percent of the amount collected as-
an incentive. In the case of defaulters, the pump sets to be taken back to the
Agriculture Department.
9.    In the case of farmer beneficiaries without an FMC, each beneficiary
farmer should sign an agreement with the implementing agency that he/she will
pay one third of the cost of the investment in 4 equal installments and should,
operate and maintain the STWs by himself/herself. In the case of defaulters,
the pump sets are to be repossessed by the Agriculture Department.
10.   Involvement of the Central Ground Water Board (CGWB) is recommended
which will take care of the ground water budget and spacing between the wells
in the selected locations. The Regional Directorate of the CGWB (Guwahati) is
already conducting detailed studies on recharge, spacing requirements etc..
11.   Once the selection of the STW sites and FMCs in all the districts is
completed by the Agriculture Department, then the CGWB (Guwahati) should be
consulted about the selection and its suggestions should be incorporated
appropriately before implementation. The technical guidelines as recommended
by the CGWB are to be considered while implementing the schemes.
Technical guidelines
12.   As per the general guidelines of the CGWB, normally a well assembly of
102 mm diameter with 6 to 15 m of slotted pipe of agricultural strainer made
up of galvanized iron pipe has to be lowered into a 150 mm diameter borehole.
The wells have to be shrouded with gravel of suitable size. In locations such
as north of Brahmaputra river covering northern parts of Goalpara, Kamrup,
Darrang and North Lakhimpur, twin-tube wells with a central pumping system
could be done instead of conventional boring due to bouldery formations even



-123-
Annex 9
Attachment 1
Page 3 of 6
at shallow depths of 15 to 20 m below the surface.
13.   Pump efficiency is greatly affected by the pump head, hence proper head
should be maintained. For example, with a total head of 6.5 m, the-discharge
will be about 10 liters per second (lps), for 7.5 to 9.5 m, the discharge will
be about 8 lps and for 10 to 12 m head, the discharge will be about 6 lps.
Pumps should be installed in such a way that a minimum efficiency of 50 %
should be assured. Pumps for STWs should be placed at or near the surface.
14.   In the flood plains of the Brahmaputra valley, aquifers are extensive
and prolific with high transmissivity values. Normal spacing is taken as 200
m and in other areas such as north of the Brahmaputra river, the spacing is
taken as 300 m because of moderate transmissivity resulting in higher
drawdowns. In locations such as Silchar district which are characterized by
low transmissivity, STWs with low discharge design at selected locations which
could command only about 1 ha could be feasible.
15.   STW installation should be done with a combination of GI pipes and PVC
pipes. For example, for an STW with a depth of 30 meters, the combination will
be: 3 meter GI pipe, 17 meters PVC pipe and 10 meters iron cum HDP strainer.



-124-
Annex 9
Attachment I
Table 1: New Investment in Shallow Tube Wells (STWs)
District                     Annual Distribution (Nos.)
YI  Y2    Y3   Y4    YS    Y6    Y7   YB    Total
Goalpara        -   24    85   150   120  120    80   21          600
Dhubri          -   35   158   220   225  220   180   87    1125
Kokrajhar       -   30   115   156   156  192   165   61          875
Bongaigaon      -   33   130   176   155  200   170   76          940
Kamrup          -   37   157   196   208  210   170   82    1060
Nalbari         -   39   125   155   167  143    92   29          750
Barpeta         -   35   157   198   205  200   171   94    1060
Darrang         -   25    95   145   175  130   119   61          750
Sonitpur        -   28    96   154   200  195   162   40          875
Nagaon          -   35   156   197   221  206   175   70    1060
Morigaon        -   25    97   150   164  156   158   68          818
Jorhat          -   23   108   152   160  150   151   81          825
Golaghat        -   25    89   152   160  165   143   91          825
Sibsagar        -   20    85   135   143  154   131   82          750
Lakhimpur       -   25    86   148   154  160   109   68          750
Ohemaji         -   18    71   102   104  105    77   23          SOO
Dlbrugarh       -   17    95   145   156  160   120   57          750
Tinsukia        -   26    85   124   127  134   127   64         687
Total           -  500  1990  2855  3000 3000  2500  1155  15000



-125-
Annex 9
Attachmentn1
Page 5 of 6
Table 2: Scoring method
Name of the FMC/farmer:                Name of the location:
Factor                                                       Max. score
1. Actual area cultivated to target area:
(->100%)                 5
(75 -100%)               3
(<75%)                   1
2. Occupation of the farmer:
(farmer)                 5
(non-farmer)             1
3. Gender type:
(male)                   2
(female)                 5
4. Current income of the farmer:
(high)                   1
(medium)                 3
(low)                    5
5. Location with respect to DTW, RPS, DS:
(within)                 1
(outside)                5
6. Cropping(irrigation) intensity in the location:
(>100%)                  5
(50-100%)                4
(<50%)                   1
7. Willingness to pay a portion of the cost:
(yes)                    5
(no)                     1
8. Any other farmer organization in the location:
(present)                5
(absent)                 2
9. FMC's overdues with commercial banks/coop.societies:
(more)                   2
(less)                   3
(no)                     5
IO.Number of STWs in the area (Nos./village):
(more)                   2
(less)                   5
continued....



-126-
Annex 9
Attachment-l
Page 6 of 6
Table 2 (continued ...): Scoring method
Name of the FMC/farmer:                Name of the location:
Factor                                                         Max. score
11.Whether any ongoing STW program in the area:
(yes)                    1
(no)                     5
12.Whether the farmer is a member of any other FMC
(yes)                    1
(no)                     5
13. Whether NGO present in the locality:
(yes)                    5
(no)                     3
14. Average performance of the STWs in the location:
(>90%)                   5
(70-90%)                 3
(<70%)                   1



-127-
Annex 9
Attachment 2
Page I of 6
INDIA
-   ASSAM RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
IRRIGATION DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION
Selection Criteria and Guidelines for Rehabilitation of
Deep Tube Wells (DTWsI and River Pumping Schemes(RPSs)
Introduction
1.    The total number of DTWs and RPSs to be rehabilitated will be 320 and
150, respectively, in a 6 year period covering 23 districts in the state and
benefitting an area of 15,460 ha. Districtwise distribution of DTWs/RPSs for
implementation is given in Tables 1 and 2.
Selection Criteria for DTWs and RPSs for Rehabilitation
2.    There are three types of rehabilitation work that need to done: a)
installation of equipment on about 622 deep bores that were drilled by the
Irrigation Department but had not been fitted with pumpsets and other
equipment; b) repairing about 529 DTWs that are not in working condition due
to major break downs, and c) retrofitting with diesel pumps about 613 DTWs
that are partially utilized due to the intermittent supply of electricity.
3.    The Irrigation Department should collect information on the DTWs/RPS id
each category, such as location with respect to transport facilities and other
DTWs/RPSs, average electricity availability, age of the DTWs/RPSs, presence of
FMCs/other organizations, cropping intensity, overdue with FMCs, presence of
any other OTW/RPS scheme, presence of NGOs and performance of the DTWs/RPSs in
the location.
4.    An 11 factor scoring method will be adopted using the collected
information to select the potential DTW/RPS for rehabilitation (Table 3). A
cumulative score will be computed for each DTW/RPS. DTWs/RPSs with high
cumulative scores will be selected for rehabilitation.
I ementation
5.    The rehabilitation investment for 320 DTWs is to be distributed as
follows: 50% where only deep bores are available; 40 % where OTWs are not
working and 10% where DTWs are partially working. Once the OTWs are ranked in
each of the three categories based on the above set of criteria, farmer groups
or FMCs in each DTW location should be motivated to become formal water users
associations (WUA) by registration under the Societies Act. NGOs should be
engaged to strengthen the FMCs and evolve methods for effective farmer
participation in project implementation. The WUAs will be prioritized during
implementation based on the order in which they are formed.



-128-
Annex 9
Attachment
Page 2 of 6
6.    The Irrigation Department (ID), with the existing infrastructure, will
be responsible for implementing the proposed DTW/RP schemes through LCB. ID
should do the supervision and monitoring of implementation.
7.    Before execution of the rehabilitation program, a MOU is to be executed
by the concerned Secretary and President of the WUA and the Irrigation
Department (ID) to undertake the rehabilitation as per the conditions
stipulated by the Government.
8.    The Chief Engineer (Distribution),  Assam State Electricity Board (ASEB)
had indicated that the total planned power requirement in the state will be
1785 million units/year and the share of irrigation sector will be about 37
million units/year ( 2 %). Currently, the ASEB is charging the Irrigation
Department for the supply of electricity to the DTWs/RPSs. Even though
farmers are expected to pay an irrigation cess to the Irrigation Department,
this has not been done in the last three years.
9.    The Irrigation Department's overdues to ASEB (as of November 1994)
amounted to about Rs 102 millions, and ASEB is reluctant to supply more
electricity to ID. About 30% of the overdues is attributed to the operation
of DTWs and 10% to RPSs. Further, power generation in the state is also highly
inadequate. ASEB is planning to increase power charges from the existing Rs
0.88 to Rs 1.60/unit in view of the high cost of generation which is about Rs
2.61 /unit.
10.   Revenue to the Irrigation Department through irrigation cess in the last
three years is negligible, as there was no water charge collection in the last'
three years. The Government of Assam issued notification in June 1992 to fix
Irrigation Service charges from the beneficiaries of all irrigation schemes.
The per hectare irrigation charges for Kharif crop is Rs 140.62, wheat Rs
281.25, Early Ahu and Ahu Rs 375.50. Total charges per annum will be Rs 797.37
per hectare.
11.   The operating cost per hectare per annum of using electric power is Rs
870 under STW, Rs 1550 under DTW, Rs 1258 under SLs, whereas the cost of using
diesel is Rs 1740, Rs 3560, and Rs 3200 respectively. In the case of
diversion schemes it is Rs 704. If the Irrigation Department's establishment
cost is included, the operating cost increases by another Rs 200 per hectare.
The running cost of pump sets varies from Rs 4.0/hr to Rs 7.5/hr for 5 and 10
HP motors, respectively, when using electric power. For the same HPs, the
cost varies from Rs 13.2/hr to Rs 19.8/hr when using diesel.
12.   Studies from Assam Agricultural University show that total water
requirement on per hectare basis for kharif(Sali) crops is about 21 cm,
early Ahu 98 cm and Ahu 49 cm. Taking into account the cropping intensity of
60% in Ahu, 30% in early Ahu and 80% in Sali, annual water requirement will be
128 cm/hectare.
13. OTIWs with electric power only have a cropping intensity of 56%, with the
average number of rice supplemental irrigations actually available per hectare



-129-
Annex 9
Attachment 2
Page 3 of 6
varying from 0 to 1 compared to the required 3 to 4 in Kharif.  In the Rabi
season, farmers need pump water in 85X of the crop period which could not be
possible with erratic electric power supplies. Since electric power is not
regularly available, farmers who could not get the water-in time from the DTW
fallow their land. If diesel source is available, then the cropping intensity
will increase to 175 % as two season cropping is possible with assured water
supplies.
14.   Crop budgets show farmers with erratic irrigation supplies could get a
net income of only Rs 1,176/ha compared to Rs 9867/ha per annum by farmers
with assured irrigation supplies, particularly in the DTWs/RPS.
15.   As part of the cost recovery effort, an amount equal to one-third of the
total investment for each DTW/RPS is to be recovered from the beneficiaries in
4 instalments where the first instalment is to be recovered before the works
start. The WUA should recover the cost either in cash or kind from the
beneficiaries on behalf of the Government. Labor contribution by the
beneficiary farmers during installation will be incorporated in the
computation of cost recovery requirements. The WUA can keep 1 percent of the
amount collected as an incentive. In the case of defaulters, the WUA should
stop providing irrigation water to defaulters.
16.   Wherever possible, the horse power (HP) of the diesel set should be
restricted to 25 HP which will facilitate buying and storing of diesel by the
WUA for regular pump operation.  -
17.   While rehabilitating the partially working OTWs, vertical turbine sets
to be replaced first, before submersible sets. After rehabilitation, the WUA
is responsible for payment of the relevant water charges to the ID and the ID
in turn is responsible for performing routine operation & maintenance on the
DTWs/RPSs.
18.   Since the rehabilitated DTWs/RPS will be scattered across several
districts, proper monitoring of the rehabilitated DTWs/RPS should be done by
outside experts. Development of base line data for the rehabilitated as well
as other DTWs/RPSs is important and should be carried out.



-130-
Annex 9
Attachment 2
Page 4 of 6
Table 1: Rehabilitation Investment in Deep Tube Wells (DTIWs)
District               Annual Distribution (Nos.)
Y1   Y2   Y3   Y4.   Y5   Y6   Y7   Y8  Total
Goalpara      -    2    2    3      4    4    1    -   16
Dhubri        -    3    4    4      5    4    2    -.  22
Kokrajhar    -    1    1    2       2    2    1    -    9
Bongaigaon   -    1    2    2       2    2    1    -   10
Kamrup        -    2    3    4      5    4    3    -   21
Nalbari       -    2    2    3      3    2    2    -   14
Barpeta       -    1    2    3      3    2    1    -   12
Oarrang       -    2    3    3      3    2    2    -   15
Sonitpur      -    2    2    2      3    3    2    -   14
Nagaon        -    3    3    6      5    4    2    -   23
Morigaon      -    1    2    3      3    2    1    -   12
Jorhat        -    2    4    4      5    4    2    -   21
Golaghat      -    2    3    3      3    3    2    -   16
Sibsagar      -    2    2    2      2    3    1    -   12
Lakhimpur    -    1    2    3       4    4    3    -   17
Ohemaji       -    1    2    2      3    3    1    -   12
Dibrugarh    -    1    2    3       4    4    1    -   15
Tinsukia      -    1    3    3      3    2    2    -   14
Hailahandi   -    1    2    3       3    4    1    -   14
Karimganji   -    1    2    2       2    2    2    -   11
Karbi-Ang    -    1    1    2       1    1    1    -    7
NC Hills      -    1    1    1      1    1    1    -    6
Cachar        -    1    1    1      2    1    1    -    7
Total         -   35   51   64    71   63   36    -  320



-131-
Annex 9
Attachment 2
Page 5 of 6
Table 2: Rehabilitation Investment in River Pumping Schemes(RPSs)
District               Annual Distribution (Nos.)
Y1     Y2   Y3    Y4  Y5    Y6*  Y7   Y8   Total
Goalpara      -     1    1     1    1    1    1    -       6
Dhubri        -     1    1     1     1    1    1    -      6
Kokrajhar     -     1    1     1     1    1    1    -      6
Bongaigaon    -     1    1     1     1    1    1    -      6
Kamrup        -     1   2      2     2    1    1    -      9
Nalbari       -     1    1     1    1    1    1    -       6
Barpeta       -     1    1     1    1    1    I    -       6
Darrang       -     -    1     1     1    -    -    -      3
Sonitpur      -     1    -     1     -    1    -    -      3
Nagaon        -     2    3     3     2    1    1    -     12
Morigaon      -     1   3      3     2   .2    1    -     12
Jorhat        -     1    1     1     1    1    1    -      6
Golaghat      -     1    1     1    1    1    1    -       6
Sibsagar      -     2    2     3     3    1    1    -     12
Lakhimpur     -     1    -     1    -    1    -    -       3
Dhemaji       -     1    1     2     1    1    -    -      6
Dibrugarh     -     1    1     1    1    1    1    -       6
Tinsukia      -     1    -     1    -    1    -    -       3
Hailahandi    -     1    1     1     1    1    1    -      6
Karimganji    -     1    1     1    1    1    1    -       6
Karbi-Ang     -     1    1     1    1    1    1    -       6
NC Hills      -     1    -     I    -    1    -    -       3
Cachar        -     1   3      3     2    2    1    -     12
Total         -    24  27   33   25  24   17    -    150



-13 2-
s                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Annex 9
Attachment 2
Table 3: Scoring Method
Name of the location:
Factor                                                     Max. Points
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
1. Location with respect to transport facilities:
(close)           5
(away)            2
2. Location of field with respect to other OTWs/RPSs:
(close)           1
(away)            5
3.  Average electricity availability(hrs/day):
(>6)              1
(3-5)             3
(<3)              5
- 4. Age of DTWs/RPSs (years):
(>10)             5
(7-10)            3
(<7)              1
5.  Cropping (irrigation) intensity in the location:
(>100%)           5
(50-100%)         4
(<50%)            1
-      6.  FMC or any other farmer organization:
(present)         5
(absent)          2
7. FMC's overdue with commercial banks/coop.societies:
(more)            2
(less)            3
(no)              5
8.  Number of DTWs/RPSs in the area (Nos./village):
(more)            2
(less)            5
9. Whether any ongoing DTW/RPS program in the area:
(yes)             1
(no)              5
10. Whether NGO present in the locality:
(yes)             5
(no)              3
11. Average performance of the DTWs/RPSs in the location:
(>70%)            5
(50-70%)          3
(<50%)            1



-1 33-
-Annex 9
Attachmnt 3
Page l of I
INDIA
- ASSAM RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
IRRIGATION DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION
Handing Over Procedures for Rehabilitated DTWs/RPSs to
Water User Associations
1.    DTWs/RPSs will be rehabilitated after ascertaining that the
beneficiaries will assume full responsibility for managing and maintaining the
rehabilitated units. The services of the NGOs should be used to assess the
willingness of beneficiaries to form WUAs that are willing to take over the
units. The rehabilitated units will then be handed over to the WUAs for an
initial period of 10 years of operation and management. ID has already shown
the willingness for the handover. Government Order is to be issued to
facilitate the handover.
2.    A MOU would be signed between the WUA and the ID incorporating the
procedures, conditions and follow ups on the handover of the DTW/RPS to the
WUA. NGO participation is recommended for sustainability of the investment in
the long-run. Once a suitable NGO in each district is identified, then the
NGO should coordinate between the ID and the WUA so that the WUA will be fully
aware of the consequences of such a handover.
3.    The MOU should include the following WUA primarily responsibilities:
- maintaining audited accounts of DTWs/RPSs,
- maintaining linkages with NGOs and government departments,
- providing diesel regularly for running the OTWs/RPSs,
- operating & maintaining the units,
- distributing water and resolving conflicts among members,
- paying electricity charges due to OTW operation directly to the Assam
State Electricity Board (ASEB),
- mobilizing its own resources for repairs & maintenance
through collection of fees from members and other income
generating activities.
To facilitate the handover process, legal aspects should be worked out after
ponsulting the legal experts.



I



-134-
Annex 9
Attachment 4
Page I of 3
-ASSAM RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
IRRIGATION DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION-
Selection Criteria and Guidelines for Establishing                     -
Pilot Tank Irriaation Systems
IntroductJan
1.    The proposal recommends 5 pilot tanik irrigation projects to 'irrigate-
about 100 ha. The distribution as well as implementation schedule of the
projects is given in Table l.
Gu1eliesfor Selection/Implementation of Schemes
2.    Tank sites proposed under the pilot project should be cleared by the
state government, and it should ascertained that there are no local
conflicting issues involved.  Since the success of the tank systems is             -
primarily based on the rainfall pattern, catchment behavior, water spread area
and command area, survey of the selected locations should be done and the
topographical map depicting cadastral information and boundaries of the tank
system be prepared for each location by the Irrigation Department.
3.    In each location, simple reconnaissance soil survey  and land
classification should be done so that the suitability of the water spread area
and command area for water storage and crop growing is known. Based on this
information, the suitability of the location for tank irrigation should be
assessed.
4.    The rainfall data pattern in the location should be analyzed using
available time series data for the last lO years in order to work out run-off
behavior. Since the pilot projects will be taken up after the 3rd year of the
project, rain gauges should be installed in the first year of the project
itself in the catchment area to know exactly the relationship between rainfall
and run-off patterns.
S.    Run-off models should be developed using either Strange's table or using
available computer models suitable to Assam conditions. Based on this
information, tank storage capacity, size of the water spread area, number of
fillings, and size of command area should be worked out.
6.    Based on the duration of water supply and crop water requilrement, the
size of the command area should be worked out taking into account the
prevailing crop pattern in the locat10n.. Since the tanks are pilot in nature,-
the size of the command area should be restricted to around 20 hectares per
tank.



-135-
Annex 9
Attachment 4
7.    One Superintending Engineer, two Assistant Engineers and five  junior
engineers will be given training in tank irrigation design and construction
methodalogies. Before starting the work, they should visit Irrigation
Departments in some of the Southern states like Andhra Pradesh or Karnataka or
Tamil Nadu where tank irrigation is popular.
8.    A two week training, particularly in the first year of project
implementation, should be given to selected engineers by tank irrigation
experts. The training should focus primarily on:
- tank hydrology,
- catchment treatment,
- irrigation methods,
- conjunctive use of tank and well water,
- farmer participation,
- tank rehabilitation, and
- overall tank management.
9.    The Irrigation Department should maintain the tank water spread area and
sluices. Since this is on a pilot basis, the engineers should monitor the
catchment and tank storage behavior periodically so that the design could be
improved in other locations.
10.   Farmers in the tank command area should be motivated to form a WUA and
they should be given training in tank irrigation methods.  ID should closely
work with the farmers for the first two years of tank irrigation. Farmers
should be trained to maintain the canals and field channels by themselves.



-136-
;                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Annex 3
Attachmenit 4
Page 3 of I
Table 1: Investment in Pilot Tank Irrigation Schemes
District                   Annual Distribution (Nos.)
Yi      Y2   Y3      Y4   Y5      Y6   Y7   Y8   Total
Goalpara        -       -    -       -      -     -    -
Dhubri          -       -    -       -      -    -      -
Kokrajhar       -       -    -       -      -     -    -
Bongaigaon      -       -    -       -      -    -      -
Kamrup          -       -    -       1      -    -    -    -          1
Nalbari         -       -
Barpeta         -       -
Darrang
Sonitpur        -       -
Nagaon          -       -    1       -      -    -      -    -        1
Morigaon        -       -    -       -
Jorhat          -
Golaghat
Sibsagar        -      -    -        1      -    -    -       -       1
Lakhimpur       -      -    -        -
Dhemaji         -       -    -       -      -     -    -    -         -
Dibrugarh       -       -    -
Tinsukia        -       -    -
Hailahandi      -      -    -                                 .
Karimganji      -       -    -
Karbi-Ang       -      -    -        -      1    -      -    -        1
NC Hills        -      -    -
Cachar          -      -    -        l      -     -    -      -       1
Total           -      -    1       3       1     -    -      -       5
------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- -------  -------



I



-137-
Annex 9
Attachment S
Page I of 4
INDIA
- ASSAM RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
IRRIGATION OESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION
Frameworks. Policies. Strategies and Agoroaches for the
Farmer Particigatory Program
1.    The following factors are likely to have a positive relationship on the
willingness of water users to organize themselves and contribute towards the
cost of rehabilitation and subsequent O&M:
- the relative non-reliability of electric supply in the location,
-  the potential gains through increased paddy yield or due to second crop
cultivation,
- the presence of a strong leadership in the project area, and
- the presence, in the area, of a strong NGO with experience in community
organization activities.
2.    Each DTW or RPS to be rehabilitated should have a registered WUA even
before starting the rehabilitation process. The WUA to be formed is sought to
be entrusted with the functions such as:
- equitable water distribution and conflict resolution,
- enforcement of water allocation and distribution policies,
- payment of electricity dues,
- improvement of agricultural production by adopting modern agronomic
practices,
- coordination with other agencies to enable the farmers to get essential
inputs like diesel, seeds, fertilizers and manures, and loans in time,
and
- generation of revolving funds to undertake regular operation and
maintenance works.
3.    To facilitate people's participation and cost-sharing by the
beneficiaries, the principle of 'First Come First Served" should be made the
norm for starting the rehabilitation process at proposed locations. The
process of forming registered WUAs and planning the rehabilitation programs
should be started simultaneously in all the locations where rehabilitation
works are proposed. Farmers who are first to complete the formalities of
forming a registered WUA will be taken up first during implementation, and the
rest in that order.



-138-
Annex 9
Attachment S
Paae 2 of 4
4.    A select number of NGOs will be engaged for assisting the beneficiaries
to organize themselves as WUAs. A planning workshop with Irrigation
Department officials and NGOs representing-different regions in the state
should be organized before implementation. The main objectives of the
workshop should be to:
-  finalize a simple participatory planning methodology;
- draft proforma Memoranda of Understanding (MOU) to be signed between WUA
and ID;
- finalize the criteria, modalities and norms for NGO participation in the
rehabilitation program;
-  finalize cost sharing modalities which will include one third of the             -
total costs by beneficiaries, at least a quarter of which should be in
paid in cash before the project implementation begins and the reminder
in cash or kind after the scheme is implemented;
- work out the O&M responsibilities of the WUA and the manner in which it
proposes to meet them, including the proposal for financial mobilization
for the same;
- work out the responsibilities of ID during project implementation and
after the rehabilitation has been completed.
5.    The NGO's function should also include providing assistance, for a
specified period, in mobilizing beneficiary contribution towards installation
costs as well as O&M. While selecting these NGOs weight should be given to
the following factors:
- legal status,
- period of active presence in the area,
- existing infrastructure,
- experience in community organization activities,
- experience in working closely with the government,
- acceptability by the beneficiary group, and
-  financial requirement of the NGOs.
6.    Prior to inviting proposals from NGOs for participation in project
activities, the Agricultural Commissioner should set up the financial norms
for facilitating NGO participation. This should be based on actual
requirements in terms of labor needs, cost of extension activities and travel
and administrative costs which would be necessary for the designated
functions. The concept of a full time staff presence in the project areas
should be discouraged as it would tend to suppress the initiative of the WUA
leaders.
7.    There should be a Steering Committee at the state level to monitor the
progress of work with the Agricultural Commissioner as the chairperson and the
Irrigation Secretary as the convener. Members should include the Chief
Engineer(MI), consultants and NGO representatives.
8.    The should be a set of monitorable indicators to be used during
implementation to assess technical, economic and social progress. Primarily



-139-
Annex 9
Attachment .
Page 3 of 4
these indicators should include:
--physical targets and achievements,
- financial targets and achievements,
- level of farmer contribution,
- level of farmer payment towards electricity consumption,
- strength of WUA(in terms of number, capital & meetings),
- strength of NGO(in terms of number and work load),
- level of WUA and ID coordination,
- change in crop production practices, and
- other infrastructure development/programs in the village.
9.    A training program to the farmers should be conducted. The beneficiaries
of the rehabilitated schemes must be trained so as to operate and manage the
schemes and meet the running costs. As the WUAs would be registered under the
Societies Act, proper training in accounting and other technical aspects
should be given.
10.   The WUA accounts are formal and open to audit. Proper accounting is a
must for the successful functioning of a WUA. A week's special training in
accounting procedures/book keeping and water distribution methods shall be
arranged for office bearers of each WUA prior to rehabilitation by the ID each
year.
11.   Further, a general training camp to be organized on the project site by
the ID about the scheme operation and crop production using training aids like
posters, slides and television. Further, selected pump operators of the WUA
would be offered a 2 day special training about pump repair and maintenance by
the mechanical wing of the ID.
12.   The syllabi for WUA training should include:
- history of farmer participation,
- participatory approach,
- benefits due to farmer participation,
- legal and administrative control of the WUA,
- relationship and responsibilities between ID and WUA,
- elementary management techniques,
- latest crop production/irrigation techniques,
- water saving methods,
- pump efficiencies,
- on-farm development activities,
- OE& of the project,
- cost recovery, and
- marketing of produce.
NGOs like Technology and Environment(ACTSE) or Rashtriya Grameen Vikas Nidhi
(RGVN) could assist in organizing training and workshops.



-140-
;                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Annex 9
Attachment 5
-             ~~~~Page 4 of 4
Policy Matrix:
Measure            Action                     Implementing
Agency
New Investment: STWs
FMC                Make them a
registered association          Agriculture Dept.
Cost recovery      MOU signed  between FMC
and Agrl. Dept for              Agriculture Dept.
one-third of the
investment cost
Rehabilitation: DTWs/RPS
WUA                Organize farmers &
help them form a                NGOs &
registered association          Irrigation Dept.
Cost recovery    Invoke the Irrigation             Irrigation Dept.
Act of 1992
MOU between Irrigation
Dept. & WUA for one-third
of investment cost
Transfer of       Government Order;                Irrigation Dept.
ownership        MOU signed between                & NGOs
Irrigation Dept. & WUA



-141-
An1nex0.
INDIA
ASSAM RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
JOB DESCRIPTION FOR WOMEN'S DEVELOPMENT OFFICER
Oualification:
Higher degree in social sciences. Additional training in gender issues,
gender awareness training and training methods.
EXDerience:
At least five years experience working in rural areas, in the
establishment of income-generating activities for women.
The successful candidate must be committed to the advancement of women,
and should possess a dynamic, pleasant personality, and has a proven record of
being able to work successfully with both male and male farmers as well as
with all ranks of government officials and non-government organizations
workers. The successful candidate should be familiar with official Government
programs intended to advance the economic status of women, as well as with the
main NGOs working in this field in India.
The successful applicant should be experienced in running gender
awareness workshops for Government and Non-Government organization staff, and
for beneficiary groups.
The successful applicant should also be perceptive in assessing women's.
situations and need, and innovative in finding appropriate solutions to
meeting those need. Ability to speak Assamese would be an added advantage.



I



-142-
Annex 11
INDIA
ASSAM RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Economic and Financial Analyses
1.    Overview.  The project would adopt a holistic approach to development
through investments in irrigation infrastructure to enable greater returns in
agricultural activities, rural roads to foster commerce and mobility, -_
horticulture to increase returns from marginal land, livestock to increase its
productivity, and fisheries to increase the annual catch. Specifically,
irrigation on about 49,000 ha of land would be enabled/upgraded; about 1,400
km of rural roads and 282 bridges would be constructed or upgraded; some
960,000 indigenous animals would be artificially inseminated annually, and
about 6,000 ha of water would be developed for fisheries.
2.    Financial Analysis.  Table 23 shows the land holding pattern in the
state of Assam. Holdings tend to be small with almost 60% of the farmers
owning less than one ha of land; about 83% of the farmers in Assam till less
than 2 ha. Tables 19-21 summarize the projected impact of the project on
these farmers and their families. Without the project, these farmers would
continue to produce principally kharif crops dominated by paddy at relatively
low yields. With the project, irrigation and road infrastructure would
facilitate greater cropping intensity and yields with diversification into
higher value crops like peas, mustard, as well as a variety of summer and
winter vegetables. Three farm models have been developed (0.4, 0.8 and 1.5
ha). The smallest farmers would increase net family incomes by about 72% (Rs
4,000 to 6,880); medium-sized farmers would achieve increases of about 8S% (Rs
6,780 to 12,155); and larger growers would derive net family income increases
of about 83% (Rs 12,366 to 22,605) with the project. It is anticipated that
such income growth would be achieved over an eight-year period from access to'
improved irrigation water. Through project activities, about 2.25 million
additional mandays of agricultural labor would be created annually, 75t of
which would be in irrigated crops. In addition, the multiplier effect of the
project is expected to be considerable as the general economy of the area
improves, thereby generating additional, though unquantifiable, unemployment
opportunities and benefits. Incremental production generated with the project
as well as incremental employment is summarized in Table 22. The project
would also enable farmers operating 0.25 ha fish ponds to obtain a net return
of Rs. 4,500 per annum (Table 28), whereas a 2 ha community fish pond would'
net its operators at least Rs. 36,000 per annum, and a 100 ha beel, Rs.
398,000 per annum (Table 30). The cross-breeding program would enable a
farmer with only one cross-bred cow to obtain a net income of Rs. 5,400 as
opposed to Rs. 1050 for an indigenous cow (Table 31).
3.    Economic Analysis.  The economic life of the project was assumed to be
30 years in view of the longer-term nature of project investments. The
economic analysis of the project was done in constant end 1994 prices using
August 1994 world market commodity price projections. This analysis examined
five types of project investments--irrigation, rural roads, livestock,
fisheries, and horticulture.  No evaluation was done for the research and
extension activities because of the difficulties in quantifying the associated



-143-
benefits. Similarly no separate analysis was done for the land consolidation
activity because of its pilot nature and small size; however, the economic
analysis of with-project crop activities captured the increased value of
improved seed, reflecting higher quality and higher processing and storage
costs.- Economic costs were derived from the project's detailed cost tables
(Annex 5, Tables 1-5), excluding taxes and duties and price contingencies.
Costs of overall project implementation administration were apportioned to the
five investment activities analyzed based on each's contribution to base
costs. All local costs and non-tradeables (constant 1994 market prices for
milk, fish and fruits and vegetables) were converted to boarder prices by
using a standard conversion factor of 0.9. Vehicles and machinery were
assumed replaced every five years. As regards tradeable commodities, import
parity prices have been calculated on the assumptions that foodgrain
production would continue to stagnate and that India will be a marginal
importer of both grains and fertilizers. Financial and economic prices used
in project analyses are given in Tables 25 and 26. The economic cash flows
for the five analyzed investments and for the total project are given in Table
4.    Benefits of the irrigation component of the project would be derived
from increased cropping intensity, higher yields, and a switch to higher value
commodities, particularly vegetables, made marketable through a revamped rural
road infrastructure. Full production would be achieved in Year 12 of the
project, reflecting both the construction of project works (eight years) and
the gradual build-up rate of incremental yields and intensity (four years).
Estimates of incremental crop benefits and costs from irrigation were made
based on with and without project cropping patterns for irrigation in  Tables
19-21, and individual crop budgets given in Tables 1-18. The irrigation
component is expected to yield an economic rate of return (ERR) of about S7%.
5.    Project roads are expected to invigorate significantly the economy of
the project area by enabling access to agricultural inputs and marketing of
outputs, increased access to health facilities, administrative services,
education and off-farm employment, as well as a general opening up of the
area. Economic analyses of roads have generally assumed a number of
indicators to value benefits, including savings in costs of operation of
vehicles as a result of saved travel time. Table 27 sets out the three
benefits quantified for the analysis. As presented therein, a traffic pattern
has been estimated for a typical project road and from this, operating cost
savings, increased productive labor and increased productive use of vehlicles
were calculated. Each of these benefits were estimated on an annual per km
basis and expanded using the projected implementation schedule for road
construction. To accommodate likely increase in area traffic as the project
is implemented and the area economy is stimulated, traffic was assumed to rise
by St p.a. over ten years after construction of a given road. Because project
roads would benefit sectors other than agriculture (e.g., health, education,
public administration), only 50% of economic capital and recurrent road costs
were included in the economic analysis. 8ased on these calculations, the
component's ERR was calculated at 33%. All other road benefits were
considered to be non-quantifiable.



-144-
6.    Under the livestock component, crossing of indigenous cattle with exotic
semen will increase production and reproduction potential of the herd,
resulting in increased milk and meat production. Incremental milk production
is expected to begin in the fifth year of the project, and stabilize in the
thirteenth year (Table 32). The ERR of this component is estimated at 21t.
7.    Improved fisheries management, and regular stocking of farmers, ponds,
community ponds, and beels will increase fish production to 2,000-3,000 kg of
fish/ha/year in farmers' and community ponds, and 300 kg/ha/year in beels. A
combined total water surface of 6,000 ha will be brought under fish
production, yielding 3,000 tons per year. Based on benefits and costs for
fish rearing in Tables 28-30, the fisheries component is expected to yield an
ERR of 22%.
8.    Increased horticulture production would improve farmers' nutrition in
addition to enhancing their disposal income. Estimates of incremental crop
benefits were based on crop budgets in Tables 8-18. Due to the eight year
phasing of investments, and the differing maturity of horticultural crops,
ranging from one to eight years, full production is expected around the
sixteenth year of the project. The component's ERR was estimated at 66%.
9.    The economic analysis for the entire project required an aggregation of
the cost and benefit streams for the five components discussed above. This
process yielded a weighted average ERR for the total project of 24% and an
aggregate NPV of Rs 2,423 million (US$ 78 million).
10.   Sensitivity Analysis.  Switching values were calculated on the total
project cost and benefit streams. According to this analysis, benefits would
need to drop by 50% or costs increase by 110% to reduce the ERR to the
Opportunity Cost of Capital of 12% (or the NPW to 0). Both of these scenarios
are considered highly unlikely. Arbitrary increases in costs and decreases in
benefits were also done as follows to test the sensitivity of the base ERR and
NPW:
ERR                NPV
(Rs. M)
Base Case                                   24%                2,423
Benefits down 10%                           22t                1,946
Benefits down 15%                           21t                1,707
Costs up 10%                                22%                2,188
Benefits lagged 2 years                     18t                1,381
Benefits down 10 and Costs up 10%          20%                1,711
These results suggest that the project's ERR is relatively robust when
subjected to serious benefit shortfalls and cost escalation. The conservative
nature of benefit estimations and delay-avoidance measures built into the
project's design reinforce confidence in results (para 10).
11.   Risks.  Despite the relatively weak management of government departments
in Assam, the project includes a number of innovations to increase chances of



-145-
project success. The project has been designed to minimize government
involvement. User groups would be involved actively in project planning,
implementation, evaluation and importantly, ownership and maintenance of
project facilities. This is expected to instill a sense of beneficiary
responsibility in the decision-making and asset-upkeep processes. Budget
clearance procedures and expenditure authorizations have been streamlined to
avoid delays. Incremental yields and build-up have been relatively
conservatively estimated; and, as discussed above, only quantifiable benefits
have been included, suggesting that actual net returns to project investments.
would be higher than estimated.



Annex 11 -
Table 1
INDIA
Asumn Rural Infrastructure and Agicluru Seve Project
Winter Rice Crop Budget
WUdh Irdoatbon                      Wthout Trioaton
Unit                                 Unlt
Ibms                                 Unila     Quantity    Cost (Rs)     Value      Ouantity    Cost (Rs)     Value
Seed                               Kg             45.0           6.30     283.50        60.0          3.30      198.00
Fetizer
Nilrogen (Urea)                 Kg              75.0          2.76     207.00        30.0          2.76       82.80
Phosphom (DAP)                  Kg              45.0          7.46     335.70        20.0          7.46      149.20
Potassknm (MOP)                 Kg              30.0          5.02     150.60        10.0          5.02       50.20
Farm Yard Manure                Ton             10.0        100.00    1,000.00        5.0         100.00     500.00
Pesdes                             Ls                                     560.00                                100.00
Ipigon                             Ls                                     525.00                                 0.00
Bullock Pair                       Days             24          40.00     90.00         24.0         40.00      960.00
Sub-Totl.                                                             4,021.80                              2,040.20
Human Labor
Land PrepPlnUtng                 Work Days        55          35.00    1,925.00         45          35.00    1,575.00
WeedIn/Plt PuPn/Irrgtn           Work Days        19          35.00      665.00         15          35.00     525.00
Haavesling/Precessnsg#Marketing  Work Days        15          35.00      525.00         12          35.00     420.00
Sub-Total Labor Cost                                                3,115.00                              2,520.00
Tota Input Cost                                                          7,136.80                             4,560.20
OUTPUT
Paddy                              Tons/Ha         4.0.      3,300.00   13,200.00        2.5      3,300.00    8,250.00
Staw                               Tons/Ha         4.0         200.00     800.00         3.0      . 200.00     600.00
Total Reven                      Rs/Ha                                14,000.00                             8,850.00
Not Incomne Beore Fam. Labor Charges  Rs/Ha         -             -     9,978.20         -              ---   6,809.80
Net Ine After Fam. Labor Charges    Rs/Ha                         -     6,863.20                        -     4,289.80
! .
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



Annex 11
Table 2
INDIA
Assam Rural Infrastructure and Agricultural Services Project
Summer Rice Crop Budget
With Irrigation (Transplanted)      Without Irrigation (Broadcast)
Unit                                Unit
Items                                 Units    Ouantity    Cost (Rs)     Value      Quantity    Cost (Rs)     Value
INPUTS
Seed                               Kg             45.0           6.30     283.50       75.0           3.30     247.50
Fertilizer
Nitrogen (Urea)                 Kg              75.0          2.76     207.00        30.0          2.76      82.80
Phosphorus (DAP)                Kg              45.0          7.46     335.70        20.0          7.46     149.20
Polassium (MOP)                 Kg              30.0          5.02     150.60        20.0          5.02     100.40
Farm Yard Manure                Ton             10.0        100.00    1.000.00        5.0        100.00     500.00
Pesticides                         Ls                                     560.00                               100.00
Irrigation                         Ls                                     900.00                                 0.00
Bullock Pairs                      Days             24          40.00     960.00       24.0          40.00     960.00
Sub-Total                                                             4,396.80                             2,139.90
Human Labor
Land Prep/Planting               Work Days        55          35.00    1,925.00        40          35.00    1,400.00
Weeding/Pit PrtnMrgtn            Work Days        19          35.00     665.00         15          35.00     525.00
Harvesting/Precessing/Marketing  Work Days        15          35.00     525.00         12          35.00     420.00
Sub-Total Labor Cost                                                3,115.00                             2,345.00
Total Input Cost                                                        7,511.80                             4,484.90
OUTPUT
Paddy                              Tons/Ha         4.2       3,300.00   13,860.00       2.1       3,300.00    6,930.00
Straw                              Tons/Ha         4.0         200.00     800.00        3.0         200.00     600.00
Total Revenue                    Rs/Ha                                14,660.00                             7,530.00
Net Income Before Fam. Labor Charges  Rs/Ha         ---           --  10,263.20          ---           ---   5,390.10
Net Income After Fam. Labor Charges    Rs/Ha        ---            --   7,148.20                       ---   3,045.10
. .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Annex 11
Table 3
INDIA
Assam Rural Infrastructure and Agricultural Services Project
Black Gram Crop Budget
With Irrigation                    Without Irrigation
Unit                                Unit
Items                                Units    Quantity    Cost (Rs)     Value      Quantity    Cost (Rs)     Value
INPUTS
Seed                              Kg              27.0         21.50     580.50        30.0         12.20     366.00
Fertilizer
Nitrogen (Urea)                 Kg              0.0           2.76       0.00        0.0          2.76        0.00
Phosphorus (DAP)                Kg             75.0          7.46      559.50       30.0          7.46      223.80
Potassium (MOP)                 Kg              0.0           5.02       0.00        0.0          5.02        0.00
Farm Yard Manure                Ton             4.0         100.00     400.00        1.0        100.00      100.00
Pesikides                         Ls                                     560.00                               200.00
Irrigation                        LS                                     300.00                                 0.00             1
Bullock Pair*                     Days            .18          40.00     720.00         18          40.00     720.00
Sub-Total                                                            3,120.00                             1,243.80
Human Labor
Ltand Prep/Planting              Work Days        30          35.00    1,050.00        30         35.00    1,050.00
Weeding/Pit PrtnIrrgin           Work Days        15          35.00     525.00         13         35.00      455.00
Harvesting/Precessing/Marketing  Work Days        30         35.00    1,050.00         25         35.00      875.00
Sub-Total Labor Cost                                                2,625.00                             2,380.00
Total Input Cost                                                        5,745.00                             3,623.80
OUTPUT
Gram                              Tons/Ha          0.8      12,200.00    9,760.00       0.5     12,200.00    6,100.00
StoverasManure                    Tons/Ha          1.0        100.00     100.00         1.0        100.00     100.00
Total Revenue                    RslHa                                9,860.00                             6,200.00
Net Income Belore Fam. Labor Charges  Rs/Ha        ---                  6,740.00        ---           ---   4,956.20
Net Income After Fam. Labor Charges    Rs/Ha       -.-                  4,115.00                      ---   2,576.20



Annex 11
Table 4
INDIA
Assam Rural Infrastructure and Agricultural Services Project
Potato Crop Budget
With Irrigation                    Without Irrigation
Unit                                 Unit
Items                                Units    Quantity    Cost (Rs)     Value       Quantity    Cost (Rs)     Value
INPUTS
Seed                              Kg            2,300.0         6.50   14,950.00     2,300.0          4.50   10,350.00
Fertilizer
Nitrogen (Urea)                 Kg              95.0          2.76     262.20        55.0          2.76     151.80
Phosphonus (DAP)                Kg             110.0          7.46     820.60        60.0          7.46     447.60
Potassium (MOP)                 Kg              90.0          5.02     451.80        50.0          5.02     251.00
Farm Yard Manure                Ton             10.0        100.00    1,000.00        5.0        100.00     500.00
Pesticides                        Ls                                      940.00                               350.00
Irrigation                        Ls                                      525.00                                 0.00
Bullock Pairs                     Days              20         40.00      800.00         20         40.00      800.00
Sub-Total                                                            19,749.60                            12,850.40
Human Labor
Land Prep/Planting               Work Days        40          35.00    1,400.00        40          35.00    1,400.00
Weeding/Pit Prtn/Irrgtn          Work Days        30          35.00    1,050.00        26          35.00     910.00
Harvesting/Processing/Marketing  Work Days        15          35.00     525.00         13          35.00     455.00
Sub-Total Labor Cost                                                2,975.00                             2,765.00
Total Input Cost                                                       22,724.60                            15,615.40
OUTPUT
Potato                            Tons/Ha         15.0       2,200.00   33,000.00      10.0       2,200.00   22,000.00
Net Income Before Fam. Labor Charges  Rs/Ha         ---           ---  13,250.40         ---           ---   9,149.60
Net Income After Fam. Labor Charges    Rs/Ha        ---          ---  10,275.40          ---           ---   6,384.60



Annex 11
Table 5
INDIA
Assam Rural Infrastructure and Agricultural Serices Project
Jute Crop Budget
With Irrigation                     Without Irrigation
Unit                                 Unit
Hems                                  Units     Quantity    Cost (Rs)     Value      Quantity    Cost (Rs)      Value
INPUTS
Seed                               Kg               8.0          24.00     192.00         8.0         24.00      192.00
Fertilizer
Nitrogen (Urea)                  Kg             45.0           2.76      124.20       25.0           2.76       69.00
Phosphorus (DAP)                 Kg             53.0           7.48     395.38        20.0           7.46      149.20
Potassium (MOP)                  Kg             45.0           5.02     225.90        20.0           5.02      100.40
Farm Yard Manure                 Ton              1.0        100.00     100.00         0.5         100.00      50.00
Pestiddes                          Ls                                        0.00                                  0.00
Irrgation                          Ls                                      280.00                                  0.00
Bullock Pairs                      Days              15          40.00     600.00          15         40.00      600.00
Sub-Total                                                              1,917.48                              1,160.60
Humfan Labor
Land Prep/Pbnting                 Work Days        30          35.00    1,050.00         30          35.00    1,050.00
WeedlngPlt Prtrrgtn               Work Days        30          35.00    1,050.00         28          35.00     910.00
HavestfingProcessing4Marketing    Work Days        25          35.00     875.00          21          35.00     735.00
Sub-Total Labor Cost                                                 2,975.00                              2,695.00
Total Input Cost                                                          4,892.48                             3,855.60
OUTPUT
Jute                               Tons/Ha          2.5       6,500.00   16,250.00        2.0       6,500.00   13,000.00
Net IncomeBe  Faff. Labor Charges  RslHa             --.                 14,332.52        ---            ---  11,839.40
Ndt ico   Afwer Fam. Labor Charges    Rsfia          ---           --   11,357.52         --             ---   9,144.40
I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                          I 



Annex 11
Table 6
INDIA
Assam Rural Infrastructure and Agricultural Services Project
Mustard Crop Budget
With Irrigation                    Without Irrigation
Unit                                Unit
Items                                Units    Quantity    Cost (Rs)     Value       Quantity    Cost (Rs)    Value
INPUTS
Seed                               Kg              10.0         15.00     150.00       10.0          15.00     150.00
Fertilizer
Nitrogen (Urea)                 Kg              60.0          2.76     165.60        25.0          2.76      69.00
Phosphonis (DAP)                Kg              75.0          7.46     559.50        25.0          7.46     186.50
Potassium (MOP)                 Kg              23.0          5.02     115.46        10.0          5.02      50.20
Farm Yard Manure                Ton              2.0        100.00     200.00         1.0        100.00     100.00
Pesticides                         Ls                                     560.00                               340.00
Irrigation                         Ls                                     300.00                                 0.00
Bullock Pairs                      Days             15          40.00     600.00         15          40.00     600.00
Sub-Total                                                             2;650.56                             1,495.70
Human Labor
Land Prep/Planting               Work Days        35          35.00    1,225.00        35          35.00    1,225.00
Weeding/Ph PrtnArrgtn            Work Days        21          35.00     735.00         16          35.00     560.00
Harvesting/Processing/Marketing  Work Days        24          35.00     840.00         18          35.00     630.00
Sub-Total Labor Cost                                                2,800.00                             2,415.00
Tota Input Cost                                                          5,450.56                             3,910.70
OUTPUT
Mustard Seed                       Tons/Ha         0.8      10,000.00    8,000.00       0.5      10,000.00    5,000.00
Net Income Before Fam. Labor Charges  Rs/Ha         ---           ---   5,349.44         ---           ---   3,504.30
Nt Income After Fam. Labor Charges    Rs/la         --            -     2,549.44         -             -      1,089.30



Annex 11
Table 7
INDIA
Assam Rural Infrastructure and Agricultural Services Project
Peas Crop Budget
With Irrigation                 Without Irrigation
Unit                             Unit
Items                        Unils    Quantity   Cost (Rs)    Value    Quantity   Cost (Rs)    Value
INPUTS
Seed                      Kg              65.0     18.00   1,170.00        65.0      12.00     780.00
Fertilizer
Nitrogen (Urea)         Kg              0.0       2.76      0.00          0.0      2.76       0.00
Phosphorus (DAP)        Kg             60.0       7.46    447.60         25.0      7.46     186.50
Potassium (MOP)         Kg              0.0       5.02      0.00          0.0      5.02       0.00
Farm Yard Manure        Ton             1.0    100.00      100.00         0.0    100.00       0.00
Pesticides                Ls                                 560.00                            150.00
Irrigation                Ls                                 300.00                             0.00
Bullock Pairs             Days             15      40.00     600.00          15      40.00    600.00
Sub-Total                                                3,177.60                          1,716.50
Human Labor
Land Prep/Planting       Work Days        35      35.00   1,225.00         35      35.00   1,225.00
Weeding/Plt PrtnMrrgin   Work Days        19      35.00    665.00          16      35.00     560.00
Harvesting/Processing/Marketin Work Days  20      35.00    700.00           18     35.00     630.00
Sub-Total Labor Cost                                    2,590.00                         2,415.00
Total Production Cost                                       5,767.60                         4,131 50
OUTPUT
Soyabean                  Tons/Ha          1.5  12,000.00  18,000.00         1.0  12,000.00  12,000.00
Net Income Before Fam. Labor Cl Rs/Ha      ---        ---  14,822.40         ---       ---  10,283.50
Net Income After Fam. Labor Cha Rs/Ha      ---             12,232.40         ---       ---   7,868.50



bdvaha I I
AIMI Ih,eai b*haMX&n W4 D9ISNL    Sw.?gm P.p
Yr. I   W4    VI 3   Yr-4  J94     W41      Ya.?     V.4                  vrl       'fr-i      Yr.3       Yr4        Yr-S      'ff4        Yr.?       yr.$
sIIeg."                       No          i.322    ..-.           .     ..       --       ...     -          3 00   3.96600        -                    -........
I aoP..isSmd               Kg            as     *      23     -      20       *       I        -         2210AI   13150         -.    494 50         -      430 00                 36100
IUI room saw               Kg            -   2.000     -   I.600     -     1.800             1.100        660        -   13.000 00        -    I .10000         -    10.40000         -.   10.40000
- 0g M(U-I)                 go          100  140.0  242.0  24.0  1420    2420    242 0    242 0           2 78     19320     39640     68792      667192.   687092      667092     66192      667.02
PhumphMajsAMI               Kg          41.0  130  110.0  1100  1100    1100    1100    1100              7 46     3053      6 11.72    WC060     62060      13060      13060      13060       62050
PuankmpI0I                  Kg          10W0  2130  307.0  307.0  30708   307 0    207 0    307 0         6.02    147.16   i 064 36   1.54114    114114   1.141.14    11541.14    1.541 14    1.54114
PaemYidmows                 TOM          II0   13 0   20 0   200   200       200     200      200        1000    80000   1.30000   2.000 00    2,00000   2.00000    2.00000    2.00000)   2.00000
PmosEd                        LI                   .-     -       -              ...     ...      . -         -      375 00      000        000        000       000         0 00       0 00       0 00
bI6inl                        Lo            ..             .      .     ..       ..       ..  ..              ...   45000       41000     450 00     45000     45000       45000      450001    4.000
UsiOrk LIOW                   Pad DO.1      Is    -----           .                                         4000     60000         --        -                                            ---       ...
ftb*JIII kiPA COI                                                                                               -7,574 74  16.642.40   6.97416   17.17966   5.90966A  15.679 66    5.18666   15.879 66
Lama
LS _d                        W  ADI        4      --            --             --       *-- Da  45-                    - 35--                                     - 1-5- 00 
W1 "g                       WKao           25    2*    25    25    25          25       25       25       30         1500        -.500  81500      650        81500       1500)     a75 00     6 .500
inglAmig"   KOA D -                                                       4 -   lito  -  14  - a 20    50           -         -          -          -         -       49000      56000    10000
A    _     )           Kg liLar bm    le   6  WoOD1  320 230    20    20    30  20       20      20         3500       700        700      ?70         700        700        700        700        700
Sub-gTog Lu sm CoIl                                                                                               3.150.00)  1.515.0    1.575.00    1.575.00   1.57500    2065.00    2.13500    2.27500
TOW PKago Is C                                   20t 7O724.74  1417 48 7049016 30It754      7.4546468   17.9414    6.00166   16.154 66
OUTPUT
Amc&%A,Iau                    F             *s 0   -  -   -           20-  212.00   23.000  254.400         020     0             0 0    0   0 0      0        .00 00   53.00000   59.50000   66.I0000
t _Pi                         Tm,1H        0*5     -     0.7      -    06        -       0.       .-    -2.00        9.760*        .-    6,540o0        .- 7o3200             -      6.100o0
.1 IPIS0                    Too".         -      13     -     II     .                .-         a     2.2000         -    26.600          . -    242000        . -    19.800 0        -     17.6 00
Toga P...   .... .. 9.750 00  26.GC0                                                                                                  614000   240.00   7.3000   12*0000   65.66000   8370000
ki udtudinLmC8sgn                                        ..2853   11.757 5    2.566a    7.003    1.410 3    56.920 3    S9.733 3 .7.80 3
AO.U AMLaw CIIUp              m                                                                                     9594 7    10.1 2    8 9906    5.445 3   s164.     54.65 3    57.5s 6 3    65.54S3 
I_ltt  _   Wok DV     *5     -       --    -      * -      --      *-        ~        35oo   I 57s o         *         * -        *



Annex 11
Table 9
INDIA
Assam Rural Infrastructure and Agricultural Services Project
Banana Crop Budget
Unit
Items                               Units        Quantity     Cost (Rs)       Value
INPUTS
Seedlings                         Seedlings         3,000          4.00      12,000.00
Fertilizer
Nitrogen (Urea)                 Kg               651.0          2.76       1,796.76
Phosphorus (DAP)                Kg               210.0          7.46       1,566.60
Potassium (MOP)                 Kg              1,689.0         5.02       8,478.78
Farm Yard Manure                Ton                37.0       100.00       3,700.00
Pestcides                         Ls                                           450.00
Irrgation                         Ls                                           350.00
Bullock Labor                     Pair Days           7.5         40.00        300.00
Sub-Total Input Cost                                                       28,642.14
Labor
Land Prep/Planting               Work Days           45         35.00       1,575.00
Weeding                          Work Days           25         35.00        875.00
Harvesting/Precessing/Marketing  Work Days           20         35.00        700.00
Sub-Total Labor Cost                                                        3,150.00
Total Production Cost                                                       31,792.14
OUTPUT
Banana                            Tons/Ha            18.0      2,500.00     45,000.00
Income Before Labor Charges       Rs/Ha                                     16,357.86
Income After Labor Charges        Rs/Ha                                     13,207.86



Annex 11
Table 10
INDIA
Assam Rural Infrastructure and Agrirculural Services Project
Black Pepper Crop Budget
Unit
Items                             Units                     Quantity                   Cost (Rs)                     Value
Yr-1       Yr-2       Yr-3       Yr-4                  Yr-I       Yr-2       Yr-3       Yr-4
INPUTS
Cuttings                        No.            1.100        ---         ---       ---       4.00   4,400.00         ---        ---        ...
Fertilizer
Nitrogen (Urea)              Kg              26.0       52.0       78.0      103.0       2.76       71.76     143.52     215.28     284.28
Phosphorus (DAP)             Kg              93.0      187.0      281.0      375.0       7.46      693.78    1,395.02   2,096.26    2,797.50
Potassium (MOP)              Kg              28.0       56.0       84.0      112.0       5.02      140.56     281.12     421.68     562.24
Farm Yard Manure             Ton              2.5        5.0        7.5        7.5     100.00     250.00      500.00     750.00     750.00
Pestcides                       Ls               ---        ---        ---        ---         ---    450.00     450.00     450.00     450 00
Irrigation                     Ls                ---        ...        ...         ...        ...    350.00     350.00     350.00     350.00
Bulock Labor                    Pair Days        7.5        ---        ---        ---      40.00     300.00 
Sub-Total Input Cost                                                                              6,656.10    3,119.66    4,283.22    5,194.02
Labor
Land Prep/Planting            Work Days         45         ---        ..         ---.    35.00    1,575.00         -          ---        ---
Weeding                       Work Days         28         28         28         28      35.00      980.00     980.00     980.00     980.00
Harvesting/Precessing/Marketing    Work Days    ---        ---        16         32      35.00         ...                560.00    1,120.00
Sub-Total Labor Cost                                                                              2,555.00     980.00    1,540.00    2,100.00
Total Production Cost                                                                               9,211.10    4,099.66    5,823.22    7,294.02
OUTPUT
Black Pepper                    Tons/Ha          ---         ---       1.5        1.7   5,000.00        0.0        0.0   7,500.00    8,500.00
Income Belore Labor Charges     Rs/Ha            ---        ---         ---       ---              -6,656.10   -3,119.66    3,216.78    3,305.98
IncomeAlterLaborCharges         Rs/Ha            -..        ---         ---        --        ---  -9,211.10   -4,099.66    1,676.78    1,205.98



I_ _   III
__           __             1,Y4   'fO  Y1,. Y F 7 Y   V  Yr4               v.3       vj*        Y.-3        Y.4      _,L         V#4           Y ?       Vig
des                           No            IN     .      ...    .      ...      ...      ...      -.        4500   6.10000                               -          ...        ...        ...         ...
hisa P .k%* Be"               Ks            a       _     23            20                I s                uire     637e0                494SO          -      43J500                 3610--
VA="  PNband                  Kg                 z0             mom            3.400 -Kea                     Boo         -   13ooo0o          -    s_.10_ao         -    ,o.4m.om          - 10l40D0o
Umy"    iSO                Kg           410    o0  1240  H so         50    I0so    ISO    16.0            276      11316    22500       34224      4s40      455*40      45640       455.40     455.0
P     _-po AP              Kg           530    7 0  331.0  2S5   37150    3750    2750    37S0             146     60116   3.20602   2.09626    2.795s0   2.17.50    2.797 50    2.79750    2.79750
Pr _nEm  PA                Kg e            0   56.0  54.0  3120         1120 1120    3320    3320          502 a    1405      2032    .4216 A         22G4    6024        16224       56224      56224
rooYms VNMa                 Ton           2 s    5 0    7 5    7 S    7 5     7        7I5      7 s       0000      25000     50000      75o00      75000      1o000      75000       75000      750 00
p    .                        L                                   --    --                --       .-          -      4SQoo        000       000         000       000        0oo         000         000
_Uin3                         Ls             -                    ..    .. .          ...  .   ..  -*...    35000                3O0       3500        3500      3000        35000      35000       35000
iu*LOWu                        PmmOs         is     -.                   *                         -         4000      0  000                                        -.                     -
Sb*Tald 64 Cog                                                                                                    11.23500  35.75522   4.454 60    I6S.354   5.34514   3531514    5.004   35.31514
L*u
LumdPmpluei                  Wai aO- 45           -                                               -        3500   3*7500           -         --
Wuu*,g                      w.&           2as    as    aS    25        25      25       25       25        206      675co       1oo 50   51500       07500      Is700      67500       67500      67500
I_                                                        6 -  -  -  -  -      14      i         0        3500         -         -          -           -         -       45000       90000      7o0oo
_M"Lwmis                 s      _   Ds.      20    20    20    20    20          20       20       20       3200         700       700        70o        700        700        700         700        700
0.*Teda L   Cd                                                                                                     312.5000   5.575        75 1.5750  3.575,00   I S75 00    2.0600    2.t35 00    2.275 0
TON  Pme' Cog                                                                                                       1.306 00  1723022   6.029UG    3.40314   6.2  14   17.36014    7.43714   37.59004
_ S           3|              F                                               12.400    32.000   14.0 0      20                               00 00 oo.0X000    32 .5M0     35.001
hau.AM* Tmet4m                              0.6     -      7      -     06       -       Os        -      2.03O
b"u.uqpemmt                   1mA*A          -      3     -      I I                      ._        6     2.2l00          -    2.600 0         --    24,2000         .-     3.900o         .-    17. 000
Told AuieO VallO 9.740 00  26Mm    5S400   24*0O.00   7,35000   400.Q003   38.60000   52.6.LOO
P 33jft.    -.    ..    ---               ...      ..      ...      -1 3.4750   12.445    4.00t3                        7.5649   91.149    34.4849    33.279    37.2849
bmmA_mLmCg                 _                                                     . *- __                     4.2S0             32SO a0   2.5103      6.005 9      009    32.4199    311.620    35.0009
31 FiSi pS3wa  a uS os.
U rS_Fo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Annex 11
Table 12
INDIA
Assam Rural Infrastructure and Agricultudal Services Pr*ct
Ginger Crop Budget
Unil
tems                               Units            Qu               Cost (Rs)           Value
INPUTS
Rhizomes                        Kg                     1.500              3.00           4.500.00
Fertilizer
Nitrogen (Urea)               Kg                     10.0              2.76             27.60
Phosphonjs (DAP)              Kg                     83.0              7.46            619.18
Potassium (MOP)               Kg                     33.0              5.02             165.66
Farm Yard Manure              Ton                    10.0            100.00           1,000.00
Pesticides                      Ls                                                        450.00
Irrigation                      Ls                                                        350.00
Bullock Labor                    Pair Days               7.5             40.00            300.00
Sub-Total Input Cost                                                                   7,412.44
Labor
Land Prep/Planting             Work Days                45             35.00           1,575.00
Weeding                        Work Days                21             35.00             735.00
Harvesting/Precesshg'Marketing    Work Days             20             35.00             700.00
Sub-Total Labor Cost                                                                   3,010.00
Total Production Cost
10,422.44
OUTPUT
Giger                            Tons/Ha                 8.0          2,000.00          16,000.00
Income Blore Labor Chages        Rs/Ha                                                   8,587.56
Inome Ar Labor Charges           RaINa                                                   5,577.56



Asum Ped W-azwwwre andAgu3As Swvc. P7q.s
Om9p CtP bd_
UMS. 6506                        owmm                                 Cou (. VNU)
Yu2   Ye-2   Y.-3   Yt-4   Ye-S    Ye4    Ye.?    YeS                   Y2         Yn-2       YI-3       Y.-A J      -S       Yr4         Yea? YJ-
pwun
t>_tg. Oef                    me            400    ...   ...    *-          .     -000   4.00000                                            ...        ... -                                         ...
hiIurube 6                    Ks             as     -     23            20       *      --   -            a221     62760         -      49.4s0          -     4000           -       30700           --
_wraft  Ka                                   -   tC000    -             _    1.500  -    3.600  930        650         -   S20o0Do          -    11.7Z00          -    10.400.00         -    20.40000
_p3,(Uua(                   Ktg              00 tlO   200  2700  2600   4500   4500   a00               276      24640     24640    S4660    1.02220        99360    1.24200      1.24200    1.24200
pt.ph.4D  AP               Kg           dal   1000  2000  2000 a400    s000   5WO   s000                7446     74.00     74600   1.4000    2,231t00   2S0400    3.73000    3.73000    3.73000
PinbaMVAO(                  Kg           0t0   tt.0  120   2060  2800   320   202.0  2320               102      32122     231312     60264      m  u    ).2030    3*t06          t.IG644     ,666 64
Frm_Ymd_tUae                TOR           20    20    40    60    90         200     0 0    200        20000     20000     20000      40000      60000      60ooo    9.00000    t.O0000    3.00000
Pr_ddb                        Ls             -             -           -                                     ..    45000      45000     45000       45000      45000      42000       42000      45000
WAre nS                       Ls                           *      -,-                                               35000     35000     35000       35000      35000      35000       32000      35000
RkkLabap Po"                                7       -                                                     4000      30000        --                    -    I      .         -
81.Td1112tt Cour'                                                                                              7.16322  I1S32572   4.34594   17.35629   7,33790   26.6364        8.77544     6.636964
Low  _PeP.                    wk Da.       45      --    -      -              --      *-0   1.575 (O                                     . .- -0     *-          -         * - 
W"O                          WekDy         20    20    20    20    20          20      20     20        3600      70000     70000      7000        70000     700 Do     700 00      700 00      700 o)
Iw ~ fswqtM                 Wok    1-_20    32                                                32        3600         -          -         -           -         -. 3-.2000    1.12000         1.32000
A    tL abd        P          Week Dap       20    20    20    20       20      20      20      20        3600        700       700        700        700                               700        700
kT.dW LO  Co                                                                                                    2,27100     70oo0       70000          70 70000    1. 2000        1,62000    1.62000
Taw I'_2mbm Coo                                                                                                  96.43622  I6c02572   5.04594    19.0506i    6.037 0   20.65864    10.59544   20.65864                            1
OUTPUT                                                                                                                                                                                                                           e.
Ter_mT        -      -      -      -       -      30      11      12     500000         00        0          0a0        00         00   S2.00000   51.0 000   60.000G00
_        rsmp  'o                 T t       00     -      7      -      0.       -     05       -     12.20000    9.7600         -      6.5400         -      7.32000        -       6.100.         -
_tpP12N.                      T "            -      2     -      It     -        9      --       9      2X000    ,    -    20.6000          .-    24,200.0        -     19.90000         -      1t67000
t1_101PIIVII Y.700.D   24W.oo   &.6400W  24,20000   7,0.00 W                                                                                                         69,800.00   8.10oW0   77.60000
k adm    " 1 abe0m            1-i 2*a ..    .                                    ...    ...    ...          ...    2.5919   13.274 3    4.941      66416        .179    50.9614    s2.3246    56.7614
b     ALL        aC           Rom            -                             - -  -  -2                                        1-  -  -  26    2.5143    3.4941  6.1216  7179    49.1414    50.5046    56.9414
*1



Annex 11
Table 14
INDI
Assam Rural irlrastructure and Agicuiwa Series Prmoct
Papaya Crop Budget
Unit
Items                            Units         Quant          Cost (Rs)             Value
Yr-i   Yr-2   Yr-3              Yr-I      Yr-2       Yr-3
INPUTS
Seedings           io.                    400    *--             10.00   4,000.00
Fenrtizer
Nitrogen (Ursa)             Kg         25.0   25.0  25.0        2.76     69.00    69.00      69.00
Phosphoms (DAP)             Kg         50.0   50.0  50.0        7.46    373.00    373.00    373.00
Potassium (MOP)             Kg         50.0   50.0  50.0        5.02    251.00    251.00    251.00
Farm Yard Manure            Ton         10.0   10.0  10.0    100.00   1,000.00  1,000.00   1,000.00
Pestcides                     Ls           ---     .      -. -      ---    450.00    450.00    450.00
Irrigation                    Ls            ---    ---    ...      ---    350.00    350.00    350.00
Bullock Labor                 Pair Days    7.5     -      ---   -.-  40.00    300.00    ---       ---
Sub-Total Input Cost                                                    6,793.00  2,493.00   2,493.00
Labor
Land Prep/Planting           Work Days    45     -      --      35.00   1,575.00      ---       ---
Weeding                      Work Days    12    12    12        35.00    420.00    420.00    420.00
Harvesting/Precessing/Marketling   Work Days    14    21    28  35.00       490      735       980
Sub-Total Labor Cost                                                    2,485.00  1,155.00   1,400.00
Total Production Cost                                                    9,278.00  3,648.00   3,893.00
OUTPUT
Papaya fruits                 Ton/Ha      16.0   17.0  18.0   2500.00   40,000.0  42,500.0  45,000.0
Income Before Labor Charges   Rs/iHa        ---    --    --         ---  33,207.0  40,007.0   42,507.0
Inoon , AftLabor Charges      Rs/Ha         -                            30,722.0  38,852.0   41,107.0
* . 8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Annex 11
Table 15
INDIA
Assam Rural Infrastructure and Agricultural Services Project
Pineapple Crop Budget
Unit
Items                            Units                 Quantity               Cost (Rs)                    Value
Yr-i    Yr-2     Yr-3     Yr-4                Yr-i       Yr-2        Yr-3       Yr-4
INPUTS
Pineapple Suckers              No.         43.500       ---     ---      ---      0.50  21,750.00        ---         ---         ---
Fertizer
Nitrogen (Urea)             Kg            705.0   705.0   705.0   705.0         2.76    1,945.80   1.945.80   1,945.80    1,945.80
Phosphorus (DAP)            Kg           1,100.0  1,100.0  1,100.0  1,100.0    7.46   8,206.00   8.206.00    8,206.00    8,206.00
Potassium (MOP)             Kg            876.0   876.0   876.0   876.0        5.02   4,397.52   4,397.52    4,397.52    4,397.52
Farm Yard Manure            Ton            10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    100.00   1,000.00   1,000.00    1,000.00    1,000.00
Pestcides                      Ls              ---     ---      ---      ---       ---    450.00      450.00     450.00      450.00
Irrigation                     Ls              ---     ---      ---      ---       ---    350.00      350.00      350.00     350.00
BuNock Labor                   Pair Days       7.5     ---      ---      ---     40.00     300.00        ---         ---         ---         a
C)
Sub-Total Input Cost                                                                   38,399.32  16,349.32   16,349.32   16,349.32
Labor    I
Land Prep/Planting           Work Days        50      -.-      ---     ---      35.00    1,750.00       ---         ...        --
Weeding                      Work Days        30      30       30       30      35.00    1,050.00   1,050.00    1,050.00    1,050.00
Harvesling/Precessing/Marketing   Work Days           15       15       15     35.00          0       525         525         525
Sub-Total Labor Cost                                                                    2,800.00   1,575.00    1,575.00    1,575.00
Total Production Cost                                                                   41,199.32  17,924.32    17,924.32   17,924.32
OUTPUT
Pineapples                     Ton/Ha         0.0    20.0    20.0    20.0   2500.00           0.0   50,000.0    50,000.0    50,000.0
Income Before Labor Charges    Rs/a            ---     ...       -- ...             --  -38,399.3   33,650.7    33,650.7    33,650.7
IncomneAfterLaborCharges       Rs/Ha           ---     ...      ---      ---       --  -41,199.3   32,075.7    32,075.7    32,075.7



Annex 11
Table 16
INDIA
Assam Rural Infrastructure and Agricultural Services Project
Turmeric Crop Budget
Unit
Items                             Units      Quantity    Cost (Rs)     Value
INPUTS
Turmeric Mother Rhizomes       Ton                 2.5      250.00       625.00
Fertilizer
Nitrogen (Urea)             Kg                 30.0         2.76       82.80
Phosphorus (DAP)            Kg                 50.0         7.46      373.00
Potassium (MOP)             Kg                 60.0         5.02      301.20
Farm Yard Manure            Ton                20.0       100.00     2,000.00
Pestcides                      Ls                  ---          ---      450.00
Irrigation                     Ls                               ---      350.00
Bullock Labor                  Pair Days           7.5       40.00       300.00
Sub-Total Input Cost                                                  4,482.00
Labor
Land Prep/Planting           Work Days            45        35.00     1,575.00
Weeding                      Work Days            20        35.00      700.00
Harvesting/Precessing/Marketing   Work Days       50        35.00     1,750.00
Sub-Total Labor Cost                                                  4,025.00
Total Production Cost                                                  8,507.00
OUTPUT
Dry Turmeric                   Ton/Ha              1.0   25,000.00    25,000.00
Income Belore Labor Charges    Rs/Ha               ---          ---   20,518.00
Income After Labor Charges     Rs/Ha                -           --    16,493.00
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Anreex II
T"bb 17
edLA
Asuum Rural haulnlure and Agdulur"i Swivces Praed,
Wkher Vegetable CQW Ebdget
Cabbage                     Caumower                     Bdrki (Eaw Pant)
Unk           0*   Cost (Rs)  Vakie (Rs)    0*Y    Cost (Rs)  Vakie (Rs)    0hy,  Cost (Rs)  Vakie (Rs)
tw1TS
Seed                           Kg              0.8  4,500.00    3.600.00      0.6    780.00      468.00         1      4,500    3,600.00
F*M
Nbogen (Ure)                Kg              67.0      2.76     184.92    123.0       2.76     339.48      67.0        2.8     184.92
PhoWshomus MDAP)            Kg             104.0      7.46     775:84    125.0       7.48     932.50      104.0       7.5     775.84
Polbsmln (MOP)              Kg              83.0      5.02     416.66     83.0       5.02     416.66      83.0        5.0     416.66
Fa nnYardMaure              Ton             10.0    100.00    1,000.00     10.0    100.00    1.000.00      10.0     100.0   1.000.00
Peseddes                       Ls               -       -       - 1,125.00     -                1.125.00       ---       ---   1,125.00
kulgulon                       Ls                         ...     750.00       ...       ---   1,500.00       ---        ---    750.00
ebckLabor                      PairDays         15      40.0      600.00     15.0     40.00      600.00      15.0       40.0     600.00
Sub-ToIS "  Cost                                               8,452.42                       6,381.64                        8,452.42
Labor
Land  p P1 ntUng             Work Days        45       35.0    1,575.00    45.0      35.00    1.575.00     45.0       35.0   1,575.00
Wefding                      Work Days        20       35.0     700.00     20.0      35.00     700.00        20         35     700.00
dt" 6 noihlwplces- udcain    Work Days        20       35.0     700.00     20.0      35.00     700.00        20        35      700.00
Sub-Toti LAbor Cotc                                             2,975.0                       2,975.00                        2,975.00
Toad Pdckition Cost                                             11,427.4                       9,356.64                       11,427.42
OUTPUT
Produce                        Ton ta         20.0   1,200.0   24,000.0      17.0  2,000.00   34,000.00       20       2.000    40,000.0
korme Bum Lab Corquwges        RHa              --*-    15,547.6               -         ---  27.618.36        ---       ---   31,547.6
hiconNAIrLaborCLgme            RiMe             -               12,572.8       -              24,643.36        --              28,572.6
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Annex 11
Table 18
INDIA
Assam Rural Infrastructure and Agricultural Services Project
Winter Vegetable Crop Budget
Tomato                        Onion                            Carrot
Unit                            Unit                             Unit
Unit          Onty   Cost (Rs)   Value (Rs)    Onty    Cost (ls)  Value (Rs)    Qnty    Cost (Rs)  Value (Rs)
INPUTS
Seed                            Kg               0.5  17,500.00    8,750.00     25.0    130.00    3.250.00        7.0   4,500o00   31,500.00
Fortikzer
Nitrogen(Urea)               Kg             112.0       2.76      309.12     89.0       2.76      245.64      60.0       2.76      165.60
Phosphonis (DAP)             Kg             125.0       7.46      932.50    104.0       7.46      775.84      30.0       7.46      223.80
Potassium (MOP)              Kg             100.0       5.02.    502.00      83.0       5.02      416.66     120.0       5.02      602.40
Famm Yard Manure             Ton             10.0     100.00    1,000.00     10.0    100.00    1,000.00       10.0    100.00    1,000.00
Pestcides                       Ls               ---        ---   1.500.00        ---       ...   1,125.00                   ---   1,125.00
Irrigation                      Ls                ...        ...     750.00       ---       ...     750.00         -                 750.00
Bulock Labor                    Pair Days        15        40.0     600.00      15.0      40.00     600.00       15.0     40.00      600.00
Sub-Total Input Cost                                             14,343.62                       8.163.14                        35,966.80
Labof
Land Prep/Planting            Work Days         70       35.0    2,450.00       45      35.00    1,575.00       45.0     35.00    1,575.00
WeodnglPlant ProleclorVlrgtn  Work Days         75       35.0    2,625.00       35      35.00    1,225.00      30.0      35.00    1,050.00
HarvestlnglPrecessnglMarkefting    Work Days    80       35.0    2,800.00       40      35.00    1,400.00      30.0      35.00    1,050.00
Sub-Total Labor Cost                                              7,875.0                        4,200.00                         3,675.00
Total Production Cost                                              22,218.6                       12,363.14                        39,641.80
OUTPUT
Produce                         Tons/Ha         35.0    3,000.0   105,000.0     20.0   3,000.00   60,000.00      25.0   2,500.00   62,500.00
Incone Before Labor Charges     Rs/Ha             ---        ---   90,656.4       .. --   .-  51,836.86            ...       ---  26,533.20
kcomw Alter Labor Charge        Rs/Ha             --         --    82,781.4       --        .--  47,636.86         ---       ---  22,858.20
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



ThOM 19
INDIA
Assam Rural Intrasiructure and Agrcullinal Services Project
A 0.4 Ha FaiTn Model
Ewmaa        kcome          To0a
AMa      POduc UoniKtS) UiPt P   Ru)       Souuxa Vaujo IRS)      Pnduclon    Net Faim    Faniy Iaw    Ffom Fani*   Not ncom  of
Semn         C>css         ,lt )P fjX.   P0     By4-d  Pdl   fr        Pci      BfrFt   Total     Coo  R.         n PS)  (ork De")   Labor (Rs)    Famy Ms)
WihoLut gie krio  P
Khafg        Wiier Rice      0.4   100   1000    1000    3.3    0.2   3,300        200   3.500      1824.06      1675.92           10           350       2,025.92
RabW         Gram           0.15   37.5    75      150   12.2    0.1      915       15      930       543.6         386            10           350        736.40
Poat          0.15   37.5  1500        0     2.2       0   3,300        0   3,300      2342.31         958             8          280        1,237.69
Pre-el                        0      0      0        0      0       a       0        0        0           0           0             0             0           0.00
TOTAL                        0.7   175   2575    1150   17.7    0.3   7515         215    7730      4709.99      3020.01           28           980       4,000.01
.l
KChel       lYirb Rice       0.4   100   1600    1600    3.3    0.2  52;0         320   5.600      2854.72      274528             6           210       2.955.28
RaW          Sudnaer Rime    0.2    50    800     800    3.3      0.2   2.640      160   2.800      1427.36      1372.64            6          210        1,582.64
armn           02      SO    160    200    122       0.1   1.952       20    1,972       1149          823            10          350        1,173.00
Pne4@mU     Veguhee        0.15    10   2250        0       2       0   4.500        0   4,500    3332.793         1,167            0            0        1,167.21
TOTAL                      0.95   210   4810    2600    20.8      0.5  14372       500   14872    8763.873      6108.127           22          770        6,878.13
Chaunge In Net wome:                                                                                                                                      2.878.12
PAnmube Chwnge h Ne heeme:                                                                                                                                 71.95%



Annex I I
Tabe 20
INDIA
Assam Rural Infrastructure and Agricultural Services Project
A 0.8 Ha Fart Model
Excs         Iomekxxn       Tota
Ama       PromClon (Kgs) Urhd Proe (RsiKg)   Ou4Px Va (RS)         Pmduction   Not Fann    Farr  Labor  From Fwny   Not Inme of
Eceson      Ciopo         fId Jc         Pck    EhePd  Pi    Ebe4t  Pd           Eb4*  Tota        Coat(Rs)   Rettm (Rs)  (Wk Days)  Labor(Rs)    Fan Ly(Rs)
Wlta SW katn Pft*d
Khail       Padd            0.6      75   1500   1500    3.3       0.2   4.950      300   5,250      2736.12     2513.88            8          280        2,793.88
Pule           0.2      25    100    200   12.2    0.1   1.220          20   1,240        724.8         515            I          280         795.20
Rabi        Potato          0.3   37.5   3000         0    2.2       0   6,600        0   6,600      4684.62       1.915            a          280        2.195.38
PuLh            0.2     25     100    200   12.2       0.2   1.220      20   1.240        724.0         515            8           280         795.20
Pro-Khal d                    0       0       0       0      0       0        0       0       0           0           0             0            0           0.00
TOTAL                        1.3  162.5   4700    1900   29.9      0.4   13990      340   14330      8870.34     5459.66           32         1120        6,579.66
Wit the kIlind  Pr  'c
KhwO         WinterRice     0.6      75   2400   2400    3.3       0.2   7.920      480   8.400      4282.06     4117.92            4           140       4,257.92
JJC            0.2      25    500    200    6.5         0   3250         0   3,M20       771.12       2,479            4           140       2,818.88
Rab         Sunmei Rce    0.4        50   1600    1600    3.3      0.2   5.280      320   5,600      2854.72     2745.28            4           140       2,885.28
Pske (Gan)    0.4       50    320    400   12.2    0.1   3,904          40   3.944         2298       1.646            4           140       1,786.00
Pr,4KhadIl    Vegetables   0.06     7.5    900        0      2       0    1,800       0    1,800   1333.1172         467            4           140        606.88
TOTAL                       1.66   207.5   5720   4600   27.3       0.5  22154      640   22994   11539.037   11454.963            20           700      12.154.96
Change hIN biMM'n :                                                                                                                       '               5,575.30
Pme  tge Change hIN bMiax.w:                                                                                                                                  85%
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Amex II
INDIA
Assam Rural Intrasinxtturx and Agdca*ural Services Protie
A 1.5 Ha Fanm Moded
Emm         hIn            TOW
sA       PPC1lM     Un1 PiofW)             Ouls Vakt VuRa       Pmicn    NotA Fm    F_l Lakor  Flum Fri   NA hamn-s of
Se                 _ft    CQ        Old  IlyUf   Pdl 1t        Pcl 8   Pld        _e  Cog (Rs   Palxm lb    Wok Dan)   Lboer R)   Fomtl)f (fk)
mmwE        We RFie        0.9    do   2250   225O    3.3    02   7.42S         450   7875    4104.18      3770.82           0            0       3.770A12
Jul            0.3    20    630        0    6.5      0   3.900       0   3.900      1s6AS        2.743           0            0       2.743.32
P14            0.3    20    300    300    12    0.1   3.600         30   3.630    1239.4S        2.391           0            0       2.39o.ss
fbm         Poao           0.3    20   3000        0    2.2      o   6.600        0   6.600    4684.62        1.915          0            0       1,915.38
G.s.l         O0       40    3w      600   122      0.1   3.660     60   3.720      2174.4      1I546            0            0       1,545.60
Pu-lOwe                     0       0      0       0      0      0       0        0       0          0           0           0            0           0.00
TOTAL                      2.4   160   6450   3150   36.2    0.4  25185         s40   25725   13359.33    1236S.67           0            0      12.365.67
Kloe   .   mAR Rlc         0.      10   30o   300    3.3    02   11*A0          720  12*00     6423.12     6176.8            0            0       6,176.18
Ju             03      20    750       0    6.5      0   475         o   4*75      1ls.63       3.710           0            0       3.718.32
Pld            0.3    20    450    300    12    0.1   5,400         30   5.430    12394S         4,191           0            0       4.190.st
SoIIur fwe    0.6    40   2400   2400    3.3    0.2   7.920        480   8.400    4282.06      4117.92           0            0       4,117.92
PA  3Po"       0.s    40    430    Go0   12.2    0.1   S.*16        6e   5,916        3447       2.463           0            0       2,469.00
Mum.od         0.3    20    240        0     Il      0   2.400       0   2.400   163S.16           765    .      0            0         764.83
PF40.u      V qaum        O.1S     10   2250       0      2      0   4.500       0   4.S00    3332.7s3        1,167          0            0       1,167.21
TOTAL                     3.15    210  10170   6300   49.3    0.6  42831    1290   44121  21516.291   22604.709              0            0      22.604.71
Cheap in "hZ Invsum.                                                                                                                              10.239.04
PsmsldolloChm..l. NdInInses:                                                                                                                          a3%
_ @ C_hS_:                                                                                                                            xl3#~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Annex 1 1
Table 22
I4DIA
Assam Rural Infrastnrcture and Agricultural Services Project
Incremental Production and Employment 1/
Unit                      Incremental Production
Paddy                 Ton                                 132000
Mustard               Ton                                  5000
Jute                  Ton                                  12000
Potatoes              Ton                                  9000
Pulse                 Ton                                  5000
Fruit                 Ton                                 85000
Fish                  Ton                                  3000
Milk                  Ton                                   1138
Incremenlal Employment
Irrigated Crops       1000 workdays                       56000
Horlicullure          1000 workdays                          600
Fisheries             1000 workdays                         1320
Livestock             1000 workdays                         1700
1/ Refers to annual values at full developement (about 10 years from project inception)
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Annex 11
Table 23
INDIA
Assam Rural Infrastructure and Agricultural Services Project
Land Holdings
Average    No. of Holdings
Size Range         Million Ha       %          Size (Ha)      (Millions)      %
Less than 1 ha      0.60          18.99          0.41           1.45         59.95
1 to 2 ha           0.76          24.09          1.39           0.55         22.59
2 to 4 ha           0.87          27.65          2.69           0.32         13.41
4 to 10 ha          0.48          15.21          5.21           0.09         3.82
More than 10 ha     0.44          14.06          78.08          0.01         0.24
TOTAL               3.16          100.00         1.31           2.42         100.00
co



Annex 1 1
Table 24
INDIA
Assarn Rwral Inlrastructure and Agricultural Services Prolect
Import Parity Prices 1/
DeWplion                                Unit          Urea 2     DAP 3/    MOP 4/    Jute 5J   Copra 6/   Paddy 7/
World price (current Yr 2000, pt of export)  US$/MT      177        204         132       363         516        332
A4 factor to '94 constant                                0.86       0.86       0.86       0.86       0.86       0.86
Woddpriceadjto94constant                US$/MT           152        175         114       312         444        286
Ouality adcstnent                       US$/MT           100        100         100       100         100         80
World market equLvalent                 US$/MT           152        175         114       312         444        228
+ Intemauonal shippg, Ins.             US$/MT            30         30         30          5          25         20
CIF India port                          US$/MT           182        205         144       317         469        248
Exchange Rate                           Rs/USS            32         32         32         32          32         32
CIFlndiapout                            Rs/MT          5.831       6.574      4,593     10.150     15,000      7,949
+ Port charges 81                      Rs/MT            275        275        275        275         275        275
+ Intemaltransport8/                   Rs/MT            430        430        430        430         430        430
Intenalmarketing&hanclinga/          Rs/MT            150        150         150       150         150        150
Subtotal                               Rs/MT          6,686 .   7.429       5,448     11,005      15,855      8,804
Processing ratio. nain product          %                100        100         100        100         15         62
Processig rato, byproduct               %                 ---        --         ---         ---        25          4
Value, byproduct Of                     Rs/MT             -.-        .--        ...        -.-       1500       1000
- ProcessNgcostsa/                     Rs/MT                   ---  -._                   ---        100        200
Wholesale value                         Rs/MT           6,686      7,429      5.448     11.005      2,653      5,299
+ Transport to/irom farm gate8/        Rs/MT            150        150         150        150        150        150
* Localmarket*gcostsV8                  Rs/MT           100        100         100        100        100        100
Famgate price                           Rs/MT           6.936      7,679      5,698     11,255      2,903      5,549
Faumgate prce                           Rs/Kg            6.94       7.68       5.70      11.25       2.90       5.55
1/ Price data are from 'Commodity Markets and tIe Developing Countries: A World Bank Quarterly', August 1994.
Intemnonl Shipping data are from 'Shpping Stafstcs & Economics', several Issues.
2/ 45% N.                                6/ Copra Is the drded flesh of a coconut that provides oil and cake.
3/ 46% P.                                  Coconut also provides coir fibre which Is used bcally
4J 60% K.                                7/ Paddy provides dce bran as a by-product; husk assumed to have zero value.
5/ QuoWd lob Eiilduh (ChItteong0Cena). I V FInancal value x SCF; SCF . 0.90
Price prked to be teme  Calcuts.
. .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-170-
Annex 11
Table 25
INDIA
Assam Rural infrastructure and Agricultural Services Project
Financial and Economic Farmgate Prices - Inputs
Financila Price   Economic Price
Descriotion                       Unit                  Rs              Rs
SEED
Rice                            Kg                         6.5            9.75
Mustard                         Kg                         15             13.5
Potato                          Kg                         6.5            5.85
Jute                            Kg                         24            41.52
Gram                            Kg                         15             13.5
SSEDLINGS/CUTTINGS
Arecanut                        Seedling                    3              2.7
Banana                          Seedling                   10               9
Black Pepper                    Cutting                     4              3.6
Coconut (Hybrid)                Seedling                   45             40.5
Ginger                          Kg                         18             16.2
Orange                          Graft                      10               9
Papaya                          Seedling                    3              2.7
Pineapple                       Sucker                     0.5            0.45
Turmeric                        Kg                         15             13.5
FERTILIZER
Urea (N)                        Kg                        3.22            7.87
Di-Amonium Phosphate - DAP (P)   Kg                        9.4            8.61
Muriate of Potash-- MOP (K)     Kg                        5.66            6.63
OTHER
Bullock Labor                   Palrday                    40              36
Human Labor                     Workday                    32             28.8



-171-
Annex 11
Table 26
INDIA
Assam Rural Infrastructure and Agricultural Services Project
Financial and Economic Farmgate Prices - Output
Financial Price   Economic Price
Descrirtion                        Unit                  Rs              Rs -
Winter Rice        -             Ton                       3300            5550
Summer Rice                      Ton                       3700            5550
Autumn Rice                      Ton                       3690            5550
Mustard                          Ton                      10500            9450
Potato                           Ton                      3000             2700
Jute                             Ton                       6500           11250
Gram-                            Ton                     12200            10980
Arecanut                         1000 Fruits                500             450
Banana                           Ton                      3000             2700
Black Pepper                     Ton                      5000             4500
Coconut                          1000 Fruits              2500             2900
Ginger                           Ton                      2000             1800
Orange                           Ton                      5000             4500
Papaya                           Ton                      3000             2700
Pineapple                        Ton                      3000             2700
Turmeric                         Ton                      3000             2700
Rice Straw                       Ton                       100               90
Wheat Straw                      Ton                        100              90



Annex II
Table 27
INDIA
Assom Rural Infrastructure and Agdcitural Services Project
Calctialton of Rural Roads Benefits
A: Op.ralmg Cost SavXngs
|No./DoY   No.do        Savhngs/Krn  Lgvhgs/Km/Doy| SavnoslKmrW 
I n-W L Tp        (Rs) I/   I
Trucks                   16             4            200          128.00       46.72000
Bases                     8             3            2.70          64.80       23.652.00
Cars                      8             2            1.44          23.04        8.409.60
Scooters/Motorcyces      35             2           0.55           38.50       14.052.50
Bicycles                 75             2           0.35           52.50       19.162.50
BullockCarts             20             2            0.33          13.20        4.818.00
116.814.60
8: Vakl df Pasnger lim  Saved
NolDoI   No. of          Avg. No.   Mn. Saved/Km 2/ % Prod. llrne 3/ |Prod. Minutes Prod. Hours Econ Value/ Econ Value/
One-Wav r4s   of Passengers                                                      lKm/Day 41 lKm/Yr
Buses                     8             3             25              5             0.4        1200         20       78.75   28743.75
Cm                        8             2              2             2.5            0.4          32        0.53        2.1     766.50
Scooters/Motorcycls      35             2             1.5              4            0.4         168        2.80     11.025   4024.125
33.534.38
C: Value of Incrementd Load from l1m  Saved
No./Day     No. of   |Ml. Saved/Km  1% Prod. Tlme   Prod. Minutes  |Prod. Houtrs  jEcon Vdkue/lEcon Volue/|
I One-Way Trips  _                                                      Km/Day 5/ K/nlYr
Trucks                    16            4              5             0.8            256        4.27       16.80    6132.00
BAock Carts              20             2              7             0.5            140        2.33        4.78    1743.79
7.875.79
1/ H. L Beenhlkder and A. M. Logo. Econorslc Apprdisd of Rural Roads; Skmnplfed Operational Procedures lar Screenlng and Apprdasor.
World Bonk Workg Paper No. 610. 1983. Annex K p. 4.
2/ Central Roads Research InsNtute. 1mpact of Rural Roads Traflic Flow Patterns and Econoric Benefits -- A Case Study in Haryana".
New Det Augus 1967. Table 7.6.
3/ IbId. p. 11 IQnckxdes empkoyment-reloted buness (25%) and takIng goods tornorket (15%).
4/ Daly usge of Rs 35 acusted by SCF (0.9).
6/ bid. p. 116. Truck time valued at Rs 4.4/hr: buLAck cort tiWm at Rs 2.1 /ht.



Annex  1I
Table 28
Assan Rurd Infrastncture and Agdcuitd Services Project
A 0.25 Ha Farmees Fish Pond
Quantity    Unit      Vakue        Value
Units   (Per Ha)  PrIce       (RslH       (Rs/PorK
INPUTS
Repairs and Maintanance    Ls                         --       2000         500.00
Manures and Fertilzer     Ls               -          -        12000       3.000.00
Feed                       Ls               -         ---     50000       12.500.00
Fish Seed                  Ls              -----               2000         500.00
Prophylactic Measure      Ls               -          ---      1500         375.00
Nets, Miscelaneous         Ls              --         ---       500          125.00
Hired Harvest Labor        Ls              -          --       4000        1,000.00
Sub-Total                                                72.000.00      18,000.00
OUTPUT
Fish                         Kg            3.000      30.00      90000       2Z500.00
NET INCOME                   Rs               --        ---   18.000.00       4.500.00



Annex 11
Table 29
INDIA
Assam RLxol lnfrastructkxe and AgrIctturta Services Project
A 2 Ha Community Flsh Tank
Quantity    Unit      Value        Vadue
Units   (Per Ha)  Plce (Rs)  (Rs/Ha)      (Rs/Tank)
INPUTS
Repairs and Maintalnance    Ls             -          -       2000        4,000.00
Manures and Fertilzer     Ls               -         -        12000      24,000.00
Feed                      Ls               ---               50000      100,000.00
Fish Seed                 Ls               --        -        2000        4.000.00
Prophylactic Measwe       Ls               -         ---       1500       3,000.00
Nets Miscelaneous         Ls               ---       ...       500        1,000.00
Hired Harvest Labor       Ls               ---                4000        8,000.00
Sub-Total                                               72,000.00     144,000.00
OUTPUT
Flsh                         Kg           3,000      30.00      90000      180,000.00
NET INCOME                   Rs              ---        -    18,000.00     36,000.00
.~~~~~~I
I..



Annex 1 1
Table 30
INDIA
Assam Rural Infrostructure and Agricultural Services Project
A 100 Ha Beel Model
Quantity    Unit      Value        Value
Units   (Per Ha)  Price (Rs)   (Rs/Ha)    (Rs/Beel)
INPUTS
Lease                         Ls               -         ---         20        2.000.00
Fish Seed Production          Ls                         ---      1,000      100.000.00
Malntalnance                  Ls               ---       ---      2,000      200.000.00
Nets. etc                     Ls               --        ---      1.000      100.000.00
Hired Harvest Labor           Ls                         ---       1000      100.000.00
Sub-Total                                                     5,020.00    502.000.00
OUTPUT
Fish                             Kg             300      30.00    9.000.00     900.000.00
NET INCOME                       Rs               ---              3.980.00    398.000.00



Annex II
Table 31
INDIA
Assam Rural Infrastructure and Agricultural Services Project
A One-Cow Form Model
A Cross Bred Cow                  An Indigenous Cow
Quantity    Unit      Value       Quantity     Unit      Value
Units      (Per Yr)  Price (Rs)    (Rs)      (Per Yr)  Price (Ps)   (Ps/Ha)
INPUTS
Straw                         Kg                780        0.2      156.00         750        0.2      150.00
Fresh Fodder Supplement       Kg               3,000       0.5    1.500.00           0        0.5        0.00
Concentrate                   Kg               1,680       3.5    5,880.00           0        3.5        0.00
Minerals                      Ls                 ---       ---      100.00          ---       ---        0.00
Vet Services                   Ls                ---       ---      100.00          ---       ---       45.00
A.l. Service                   Ls                                   150.00          ---       ---        0.00
Medlcine                      Is                           ---      200.00          ---       ---       90.00
MNk Marketing                 Utres            1,800       0.1      180.00         150        0.1       15.00
Labor                    .   Days               360          7    2,520.00           0          7       .0.00
10,786.00                            300.00
OUTPUT
Milk                             Uters           1.800         9    16,200.00         150         9     1.350.00
NET INCOME                       Rs                 ---       --    5.414.00           ---       ---    1,050.00



Anexx 11
Table 32
INDIA
Assam Rural Infrasiructure and AgrcuLtural Services Project
Milk Production 1/
UnHs       Yr-1  Yr-2  Yr-3 Yr-4  Yr-5  Yr-6  Yr-7 Yr-8  Yr-9  Yr-10  Yr-i1  Yr-12  Yr-13
mlnatlonhpermrnedlYear        '000 No     219 1,183 1,924 2,044 2.164 2,344 2,400 2,400 2,400  2,400  2,400 2,400  2,400
lnseminauons/conception 2/     '0 No       3.5  3.3  3.1  2.9  2.7  2.5  2.5  2.5  2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5   2.5
Cows successfully Inseminated 31   00 No    63  358  621  705  801  938  960  960  960   960   960   960,  960
Number of female calves bom 4/  '000 No     ---  22  125  217  247  281  328  336  336   336   336   336   336
Number of lactating animals 5/    '000 No  ---  ---  .--  ---  19  121  277  422  561   708   827   918   960
Number of lters of milk 6/     Million Uters  ---  ---  ---  ---  34  218  499  759 1,010  1,275  1,489  1,653  1,728
Value of Mik 7/                Million Rs    ---  ---  ---  ---  285 1,850 4,240 6,452 8,584 10,834 12,658 14,053 14,688
1/ The hard ix    dto stab-lze h the 13th year
21 The imprvement over years reflects improved heat detection, and inseminator experience
3/ First row dMded by the second row
4/ Assumes a 70% caMng rate, with 50% females
5/ This Is a cumulative total, after adjusting for a 15% call mortality, 10% adult mortality, and a 15% culling rate
5/ Each cross-bred cow produces 1,800 rters of milk per 300 day lactation
7/ Each iter of milk Is valued at the market price of Rs 8.50



Arx  11
Table 33
Assam Rural Intrasructre and AgdtAaund Servies Proem
Econoric Cash Flow Anab
(Rs. TheuAands)
Yw I      Year2      Yewu3     Yer4       Year5     Yw 6       Ye r7      Yeari      Year9    Year10
Nat PRekr on Fidd Cops
Wini rRUc                  0      4,126     13.793    27.044     40,809    54,091     64.193     67,738    67,738     67.738
Autumn RIce                0      2.621     10,964    24.538     40.350    56.131     69.633     77,273    79,163     79,163
Jute                       0      2.266      7,576    14,853     22,413    29,709     35,257     37,24     37,204     37,204
Pube                       0       951      4.350     10.147     17.081    24.049     30,148     33.832    34.839     34.839
Intercop PuLe            358      1.568     3,344      4.932      6,804     8.749     10.921     10.985     11,327    12,055
Mustard                    0        220      1.419     3.726      6,655     9,642     12.381     14,243     14.830    14,830
Intercrop Potato         204        919      2,042     3,199      4,647     6,614      9.706     12.405     15.103    18.251
Net Retun on Haricaitua Crops
Atecaud                 -402     -1,460     -3.501     .5,239    -7,998     *8,097    *3.318     12.639    28.846     51.182
Banand                   455      1,385     2,276      3.641      5.462     7,283      9.103      9.103     9.103      9,103
Bbck Pepper             -355       -516      -448       -390       -688      -792       -666       159        595        572
Coconut                 -560     -2.391     -3.572     -4.435    -5,471     -5.317    -1.052      7,799     15,045    22.480
Ginger                   264        528       791      1.055      1,583     2,110      2,638      2.638     2.638      2.638
Omrnge                  -388     -1.013     -1.594    .-2,355    -3.24B     *2.728        61      4,178     7,767     11,613
Papaya                 2.331      6.999     12.463    18,017     23.565    29.112     34.659     36,710    37,003     36,981
Pneapple                 109      1.353      2.598     3.842      4,075     6.564      9,053     11.324     9.083      9,083
Tumeric                  800      1,599      2.399     3.199      4,798     6.398      7.997      7,997     7,997      7,997
Net Relum on Rural Roads   10.530    32,117     68,824    107,366    147,835    190.328    213,885    233,986    245,685    257,970
Net Retum on Uvestock     -9.386    -64.723   *127.909    -62,275    -8,766    *18,231    46,210    161,799    216,258    272,025
Net Reurm on Fisheries      8,150    16,724     24,553    32,381     40,210     48,039    55,868     83696      61,275    61 275
Total Net Reum             12.110     3,254     20,366    183,246    340.117    443,653    606,675    805,706    901,498  1,006.998
Proct Investmt Cost
Pit Iv. Cost         421,851    513.824    597,998    516.706    523,707    534.365    437.209    269.662
Vehic. Replace.
Recmnnt Exp.                                                                                               147,085    147,085
Tolal Pp Econ. Cost  421,851    513,824    597,998    516.706    523,707    534,365    437,209    269,662    147.085   147084.8
Totl Pp Net Retum        -409,741   -510.571   -577.632   -333.459   -183,590    -90,712    169.465    536,044    754.414    859,913
ERR a 24%
NPV a Rs. Mil. 2,423.0                                                                                          continued.
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Annex 11
Table 33 Continued
INDIA
Assam Rural Infrastructure and Agricultural Services Project
Economic Cash Flow Analysis
(Rs. Thousands)
Year1l    Year12    Year13    Yearl4    YearlS    Yearl6    Year17    Year18    Yearl9    Year20
Net Retum on Fid Crops
Winter Rice            67,738     67.738    67.738     67.738    67,738     67,738     67,738    67,738     67,738     67,738
Autumn Rice            79,163    79,163     79.163     79,163    79.163     79.163     79.163    79,163     79,163     79,163
Jute                   37,204    37,204     37,204     37,204    37,204     37,204     37,204     37,204    37,204     37.204
Pulse                  34,839    34,839     34.839     34,839    34.839     34.839     34,839    34,839     34,839     34,839
Intescrop Pulse        12,753     13.451    13,451     13.451    13,451     13,451     13,451     13,451    13,451     13,451
Mustard                14.830     14,830    14.830     14,830     14.830    14,830     14.830     14,830    14.830     14,830
Intercrop Potato       21,174    24,098     24,098     24,098    24,098     24,098    24.098     24.098     24,098     24.098
Net Relum on Horticultural Crops
Arecanut               74.055    97,469    101.952    104,076    103.924    103,849    103,849    103,849    103,849    103,849
Banana                  9,103     9,103      9.103      9,103     9.103      9.103     9,103      9.103      9.103      9,103
Black Pepper             572        572        572       572        572       572        572        572       572        572
Coconut                30,098    37,902     38,975     39,495    39.464     39,443     39,432    39,432     39,432     39,432
Ginger                  2,638     2,638      2,638      2.638     2,638      2,638     2,638      2,638      2,638      2,638
Orange                 17,531    23,885     24,679     24.658    24,637     24,628     24.616    24,603     24,603     24,603
Papaya                 36,981    36,981     36,981     36.981    36.981     36,144    35,726     35,726     35,726     35,726
Pineapple               9,083    11,324      9,083      9,083     9,083     11.324     9.083      9,083      9.083     11,324
Turmeric                7,997     7.997      7,997      7,997     7,997      7,997      7,997     7,997      7,997      7,997
Net Retum on Rural Roads    270.868    283,554    295.159    304,485    311,419    315,841    317,625    318,354    318,354    318,354
Net Retum on Livestock    326.774    366.268    393.125    411.387    423,806    432,250    437.993    441,897    444,553    446,358
Nel Retum on Fisheries     81,275     61,275    61,275     61,275        75     61,275     61,275     61,275    61,275     61,275
Total Net Retum          1,114,676  1,210,290  1,252,859  1,283.071   1.302,219  1,316,385  1,321,228  1,325,850  1,328.505  1.332,552
Project Investment Cost
Pjt Invest. Cost          ---        --- 
Vehic. Replace.        43,151        ---       ---        ...        -      43,151        ---        -          ---       ---
Recurrent Exp.                   147,085 147085            5    147,085    147,085    147,085    147,085    147,085    147,085
Total Pit Econ. Cost  190,236    147,085    147,085    147,085    147.085    190,236    147,085    147,085    147,085    147,085
Total Pit Net Relum       924.441  1.063,205  1,105,774  1,135,986  1.155,135  1,126.149  1,174,144  1,178,765  1,181,421   1,185,467
conlinued.



Annex 11
Table 33 Continued
INDIA
Assam Rural Infrastructure and Agricultural Senrlces Project
Economic Cash Flow Analysis
(Rs. Thousands)
Year 21    Year 22    Year 23    Year 24    Year 25    Year 26    Year 27    Year 28    Year 29    Year 30
Net Retum on Field Crops
Winter Rko            67.738    67,738     67,738    67.738    67,738    67,738     67,738    67.738     67.738    67.738
Autumn Rice           79,163    79.163    79.1B3    79,183     79.183    79.163    79.163     79,183     79,163    79,163
Jule                  37.204    37.204     37.204    37,204    37,204    37,204     37,204    37.204    37.204     37,204
Pulse                 34,839    34.839    34,839    34.839     34.839    34,839     34,839    34,839    34.839     34,839
Intercrop Pulse       13,451    13,451     13.451    13.451    13,451     13.451    13,451    13,451     13.451    13.451
Mustard               14,830    14,830     14.830    14,830    14,830     14,830    14.830    14,830    14,830     14.830
Intercrop Potato      24,098    24.098    24,098    24,098     24,098    24,098     24,098    24,098    24.098     24.098
Net Retum on Horticultural Crops
Arecanut             103.849    103,849    103,849    103,849    103,849    103,849    103,849    103,849    103,849    103,849
Banana                 9,103     9.103     9,103      9,103     9,103     9,103      9.103     9.103      9.103     9,103
Black Pepper            572        572       572       572        572       572       572        572       572       572
Coconut               39,432    39,432    39,432    39.432     39,432    39,432    39,432     39,432    39.432     39,432
Ginger                 2.638     2.638     2,638      2,638     2,638     2,638      2.638     2,638      2,638     2,638
Orange                24,603    24.603    24,603    24,603     24,603    24,603     24,603    24,603    24,603     24,603
Papaya                36.981    36,981    36,981     36.981    36.981     36,144    35,726    35,726    35,726     35,726
Pineapple              9,083    11,324     9.083      9,083     9,083     11,324     9,083     9,083      9,083    11.324
Turmeric               7.997     7,997     7,997      7,997     7,997     7,997      7,997     7,997      7,997     7,997
Net Retum on Rural Roads    318.354   '318.354    318.354    318,354    318.354    318,354    318.354    318,354    318,354    318,354
Net Retum on Uvestock    447,586   448,421    448.989   449,375    449,637    449,816    449,937    450,020   450,076    450,114
Net Retum on Fisheries    61,275    61,275    61,275    61.275     61,275    61,275     61,275    61,275    61,275     61,275
Total Net Retum         1,332.794  1,335,870  1.334,197  1,334,583  1,334,845  1,336,428  1,333,890  1,333,972  1.334,029  1,336,308
Prolect Investment Cost
Pt  nvest. Cost          ---        ---       ---       ---        ...       ---        --        ---       ...        ---
Vehic. Replace.       43,151                                              43,151        ...       --        ...       ---
Recurrent Exp.       147,085   147,085    147,       47,085    147,085   147,085    147,085       147,085         147,085
Total Pit Econ. Cost  190,236    147,085    147,085   147.085    147,085    190.236    147,085    147,085    147,085    147.085
Total Pit Net Relum     1,142,559  t.188.785  1,187.112  1.187,498  1.187.761  1.146.192  1.186,805  1.186,888  1,186,944  1,189,223



I



-181-
ADC 32.
ASSAM-RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
THE PROJECT AREA
DISTRICTS                            DEVELOPMENT BLOCKS
1.    Dhubri                                South Salmara
Mancachar
Gauripur
Agomoni
Bilashipara
Chapar Salkocha
Rupashi (New)
Mahamaya (New)
Birshing Jarua (New)
Fekamari (New)
Jamarghat (New)
Nayar Alga (New)
Debitola (New)
Golokganj
2.    Kokrajhar                             Gossaigaon
Kachugaon
Kokrajhar
sidli-Chering
Dotma
Hatidhara (New)
3.    Goalpara                              Lakhipur
Balijana
Matia
Dudhnoi
Joleswar (New)
Kharmuza
Krishani
Kuchdhuwa (New)
4.    Bongaigaon                            Srijangram
Baitamari
Manikpur
Borobazar
Tapattari (New)
Dangtol (New)
5.    Barpeta                               Barpeta
Gobardhana
Jalah
Ruposi
Mandia
Bhabanipur
Bajali



-182-
Chenga
Sarukhetri (New)
Pakabetbari
Goma-phulbari (New)
6.    Nalbari                                Baska
Borkhetri
Tamulpur
Tihu-Barama
Pachim Nalbari
Pub-Nalbari
Barbhag (New)
Borgog-Barbhag
Madhupur (New)
Dhamdhama (New)
Nagrijuli (New)
7.    Kumrup                                 Dimoria
Boko-Bangaon
Kamalpur
Ilajo
Rahi
Bezera (New)
Chnyani Bordhar (New)
Chaigaon
Chamarie
Rangiya
Goreswar (New)
Rampur
Bongaon (New)
Saulkuchi (new)
Bih-dia-Jajikona
Chandrapur (new)
Goroimari
8.    Darrang                                Dalgaon-Sialmari
Sipajhar
Kalaigaon
Khairabari
Bechimari (New)
Pu-Mangaldoi (New)
Udalguri
Bheragaon (New)
9.    Sonitpur                               Gabharu
Bihguri (new)
Sakumata (New)
Borchala (New)
10.   Lakhimpur                              Dhakuawana
Telahi (New)
Ghilamari



-183-
11.   Dhemaji                                Machkhowa
Siaibargaon
12.   Dibrugarh                              Barbarua
Lahowal
Khowang
Tengakhat
Joypur
Panitola
Tingkhong
13.   Tinsukia                               Hapjan
Kakapathar
Saikhowa (New)
Itakhuli (New)
Guijan (New)
14.   Jorhat                                 Majuli
=   Central Jorhat
East Jorhat
North-East Jorhat
Titabar
Jorhat
Ujani-Majuli (New)
Ralaipani
15.   Sibsagar                               Sibsagar
Gaurisagar
Nazira
Dimew
Sapekhaeti
Sonari
Lakuwa (New)
Amguri (New)
West Athayapur (New)
16.   Golaghat                               Golaghat-North
Golaghat-Central
Golaghat-West
Golaghat-East
Golaghat-South
Morangi (New)
Gamariguri (New)
Kakodanga (New)
17.   Nawgaon                                Juria
Lawkhawa
Batadrava
Rupahi
Khagarijan
Kathiatoli



-184-
Kal iabar
Kapili
Odali
Jugijan
Pakimari (New)
Raha (New)
Pachim-Kaliabar (New)
Barhampur (New)
Binakandi (New)
Lumding (New)
Dhalpukhuri (New)
18.   Morigaon                              Dolonghat (New)
Mairabari (New)
Mayang
Bhurbandha
Laharighat
19.   Xarbi-Anglong                         Leumbajung
Nilip
Bokajan
Howraghat
Rongmongue
Amri
Socheng
Rongkhong
Samelangaon
Chinthong
Longsompi (New)
20.   Cachar                                Sonai
Rajabazar
Udarbond
Katigorah
Salchapra
Narcingpur
Lakhipur
Binkandi (New)
Silchar (New)
Borkhola (New)
Palonghat (New)
Barjelanga (New)
Kalain (New)
21.   Hailakandi                            Kathlichara
Hailakandi
Lala
Algapur (New)
South-Hailakandi
Tapang (New)
22.   Karimganj                             North-Karimganj



-185-
South-Karimganj
Patharkandi
Ramkrishna-nagar
Badarpur
Dullav-Chera (New)
Lawaripowa (New)
23.   North-Cachar-Hills                    Jatingavally
Diyangvally
Harangajaw
Dayangmukh
New Sanngbhur






-186-
Annex 13
ASSAM RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Imnlementation Arrangements for Individual Components
Poverty Alleviation Comnonent
1.        Because the component includes distinct programs for improvement of
production technology in fisheries, livestock and horticulture, each of them
would be implemented by separate responsible line departments and agencies.
The improvement program for fisheries would be implemented by the Department
of Fisheries, Assam Fisheries Corporation, Fisheries cooperatives, Field
Management Committees and farmers. While livestock activities would be
implemented by the Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Department, private
entrepreneurs and farmers; and horticultural activities by the Department of
Agriculture (Horticulture Section), private seeds and seedlings producers,
Field Management Committees and farmers.
2.        Fisheries Development. Activities supported under the project
include seed production, mobile health units, farmers ponds and community
tanks, and fish production in laige reservoirs (beels). Also the project
would support Pilot open water, minor floodplain fisheries enhancement
activities. These activities would be implemented as follows:
(a) Fish Seed Production. The State Department of Fisheries through
its technically qualified persons and fisheries scientists of Assam
Agricultural University would initiate the establishment of eco-
hatcheries, one in each district, to demonstrate the scientific
method of fish breeding, rearing and distribution to the fish seed
growers of the State. Whenever the eco-hatcheries are leased to
private persons on a long-term basis, the department would monitor
their activities to ensure quality of seed is maintained. The Fish
Farmers Development Agencies (FFDAs) would be actively involved in
providing support in training, implementation and monitoring of the
program.
(b) Mobile Fish Health Units. These units would be operated by the
State Department of Fisheries through its Fish Farmers Development
Agencies located in selected high fish potential districts.
(c) Farmers Ponds. and Community Tanks. The potential areas for
creating ponds and tanks would jointly be identified by the State
Department of Fisheries and local bodies consisting of members of
Field Management Committees, Non-Governmental organizations,
Village Panchayats, etc. The Department, through Fish Farmers
Development Agencies, would guide and assist producers in intensive
fish culture production. The Departmental officials would also
monitor implementation and evaluate the impact of fish production
in the local economy, including income and employment generation.
(d) Pilot open water, minor floodplain fisheries enhancement. The
innovative strategy for this component would require coordination
by the Department of Fisheries (DOF) for all technical and



-187-
production monitoring aspects in conjunction with the Irrigation
Department (I)) for the engineering aspects and NGO to assist with
social organization of the fishing groups that would lease the open
waters. The DOF, with assistance from the ID, would be responsible
for implementing the engineering works which would include (i)
clearing and deepening channels between the selected floodplain and
rivers; (ii) replacement of irrigation gates with structures more
suitable for fish migration, as needed; and (iii) clearing of
floating aquatic vegetation. The DOF would make contractual
agreements with the participating fishing groups that would include
payment of 30% of investment costs and annual maintenance needs.
Responsibility for the latter would be taken directly by the
fishing groups in lieu of making payments for maintenance needs.
The DOF would be responsible for maintenance and production
monitoring and collection of baseline data at proposed sites prior
to making investments. The DOF would also review, revise , and
enforce fisheries regulations, as necessary, to optimize fish
production in the project area.
3.        The Department of Fisheries is adequately staffed with more than 30
qualified Junior Engineers to undertake survey work, demarcation of boundaries
and help to design embankments/dikes/spill-overs/sluice gates, etc. to be
contracted out. Weed clearing of beels would also be contracted out to the
private sector.
4.        Other activities such as Fisheries research, Extension service and
training would be centralized for implementation. The Assam Agricultural
University would implement fisheries research and the Department of
Agriculture would provide extension service under the broad based extension
service program. However, the responsibility for providing back stopping for
extension service would remain with the Department of Fisheries through its
SMSs in fisheries. The development of fisheries research projects would be
undertaken by the university scientists, seed growers, fish culturists, in
collaboration with staff at the Regional Research Center at Jorhat and ICAR
5.        A systematic ecological survey would be carried out of the wetlands
in the project area and identify ecologically important wetlands prior to
making investments. Such wetlands would be excluded from the prbject. So
far, six wetlands have been identified in Assam to be of international
importance and in need of protection. These are: (a) Sareswar in Dhuri
Division; (b) Wetlands in Manas Wildlife Sanctuary; (c) Dipor (Deepar); (d)
Wetlands in Loakhawa, Orang and Sonai Rupai Sanctuaries; (e) Wetlands in
Kaziranga National Park; and (f) Dibru Flood Plain.
6.        Because of the technical nature of fish production in large beels,
the Department of Fisheries would at the initial stage launch the operation by
designing, drawing, floating tenders for construction, supervising
construction and seeding before finally leasing to the private sector (highest
bidders). To promote private sector involvement in fish production on a
commercial scale, lease periods of water beels under government control would
be extended to 5-10 years.



-188-
7.        Beels would continue to be the major source of fish production in
the State, therefore there is a need to rationalize the States policy and
responsibility for their development. At present the majority of the beels
are either under the control of Revenue or Forestry Departments. For proper
development of beels the fishing rights should be vested with the State
Fisheries Department. Regarding the issue of leasing out large beels to
highest bidders, present users would be protected. A compensation package
acceptable to IDA would be required as an integral part of the beel
construction, in the annual work plan.
8.        Livestock Development.  The Animal Husbandry and Veterinary
Department (AHVD) is responsible for development of livestock in the state.
The Department is represented in each district by a District Veterinary
Officer under whom are a number of Sub-District Veterinary Officers,
Veterinary Assistant Surgeons, and Veterinary Extension Officers at the
livestock clinics, including mobile clinics. Currently the department has
several livestock improvement initiatives including, improvement of cattle,
buffalo, goats, pigs, ducks and poultry through breeding programs; the
Intensive Cattle Development Project (ICDP), village level scheme, and
production of frozen cattle semen for Artificial Insemination, as part of the
cattle improvement program.
9.        The cattle improvement program puts emphasis on dairy production
through its eight cattle farms and numerous insemination centers. The largest
program being the GOI supported ICDP scheme which started in 1968. The
objective of the ICDP is to improve milk production in the state through
controlled breeding, and improved feeding, management and disease control.
There are 11 ICDPs currently operating in the state and a further two were
planned and the infrastructure established but not implemented.
10.       To compliment GOI/GOA effort, additional resources provided under
the project would enable AHVD implement the cattle improvement program.
Because GOA under the ICDP has artificial insemination infrastructure in place
through which AI and veterinary services and animal husbandry information are
extended, the department would be supported to expand the coverage. The ICDPs
are linked with the Dairy Development Department and a Rural Development and
Extension Officer is attached to the ICDPs for household dairy extension, and
organizing cooperative societies for milk marketing. Animal management
practices of the ICDPs including castration of local bulls, breeding local
cows with frozen Jersey semen to produce cross bred milk animals, treatment of
animal health problems and prophylaxis for diseases, would be continued.
11.       The existing staff are adequate to implement the project, with the
exception of a few additional positions. At the state level, the staff would
consist of the Director, supported by an Additional Director who would be
responsible for the project. Below the Additional Director are a number of
SMSs whose function would be to train field level staff, assist with
beneficiary training, prepare training materials in their specialized subjects
with the assistance of the existing multi-media team. Also, SMSs would
organize and supervise field livestock development staff.



-189-
12.       Though most of the positions are filled, about 10% additional
staffing would be required. The existing lower level staff include the
following specializations: (i) fodder development, (ii) cattle production,
(iii) pig, sheep and goat production, (iv) training, (v) extension, and (vi)
animal health. Female staff for extension, women in development and animal
nutrition would be added to the existing contingent of livestock experts.
Additionally, some of the present staff would be re-trained to equip them in
livestock breeding, monitoring, credit and business development and planning.
There will also be a separate group responsible for frozen semen production
and management, epidemiology and disease monitoring.
13.       At the district level, each district would be headed by Veterinary
Officer supported by a team of SMSs to provide technical support for topics
which are important in that particular district. These would include:
training, cattle production, fodder development, pig, sheep and goat
production, animal health, and rural development and extension.
14.       The veterinary clinics and AI centers would continue to be operated
by existing staff carrying out general functions, acting as the extension
agents for livestock department, interacting with the beneficiaries and
passing requests for training and additional information to the SMSs at the
district level. With the development of VLAs and privatization of veterinary
services, Al centers would concentrate in providing technical support to the
private sector, monitoring, and private sector and farmer training and
extension. Sub-sector representation would be provided by the Veterinary
Extension Officer at the Block level.
15.       Horticulture Development.  Implementation of two IDA assisted
projects (Cr 728 and Cr 1754) has resulted in strengthening and streamlining
of the extension service under a single line of command. Under this system,
there is one VLEW for every 800 farm families, one AEO circle for 6-8 VLEWs,
one Sub-divisional Agricultural Officer for 6-8 AEO circles, one District
Agricultural Officer for 2-3 subdivisions, one Joint Director of Agriculture
for 2-4 districts. Because the proposed project would introduce a broad-based
extension service, the existing VLEWs would function as multiple change agents
for technology transfer for crops (including horticulture) and livestock.
16.       Because of the growing importance of horticulture as a source of
income and nutrition for the rural poor, a separate cell for horticulture was
created within the Department of Agriculture in 1992. The cell is headed by
an ADA (Horticulture) who is assisted by two Deputy Directors (Horticulture)
at headquarter. At the sub divisional level, the Sub divisional Agricultural
Officers are assisted by one SMS (Horticulture). At the state level workshops
exclusively for horticulture are held once every year since 1990-91 to promote
further expansion of horticulture.
17.       Also, bi-monthly zonal workshops devote about 50% of the time for
skill development and generation of messages on horticulture. The Department
of Agriculture and the Assam Agricultural University have jointly published
an excellent book entitled "Packages of Practices for Horticultural crops in



-190-
Assam" which is only useful to a few english speaking farmers. Assistance
would be provided in the project to translate the book into Assamese and
Bengali to be widely distributed to the farming community.
18.       There are about 3000 VLEWs in the Directorate of Agriculture.  Each
VLEW would conduct one or two horticultural demonstrations per year on
farmers' plots. Where FMCs are well organized the demonstrations would be
conducted through FMCs on selected farmers' land or on community lands.
Although about 20,000 FMCs have been registered, only a small percentage are
functioning and are self-sustaining. NGOs would be engaged to strengthen the
FMCs and to evolve methods for effective participation of beneficiary groups
in planning and implementation of demonstrations. The progeny orchard
activities would be implemented by the existing staff and the horticultural
training would be organized by sub-divisional SMS (Horticulture) supervised by
headquarter staff.
Institutional Development ComDonent
19.       The component includes technology generation, education and
training, extension service, seed multiplication and land administration whose
implementation would involve three agencies. These activities would be
implemented as follows:
20.       Technology Generation.  The Assam State Agricultural University
(ASAU) is responsible for agricultural research. Technology generation under
the project would concentrate on the development of various forms of the rice-
based cropping systems, to increase crop yields and also cropping intensity.
As a result of research supported through the Indian Council for Agricultural
Research (ICAR) all India coordinated trials, extension information is already
available for increasing the intensity of cropping under both irrigated and
dry-land cropping.
21.       The regional agricultural stations, strengthened under the project,
would be responsible for the location specific research. Since a major thrust
of the project is to widen the range of on-farm income generating activities,
an integrated approach to farming would be adopted to include crops, livestock
and fisheries. The rationale for supporting such effort
would be to ensure continued supply of demand driven technology, especially
more relevant to mixed farming.
22.       Through the Farming Systems Research under the project, farmers
will have the opportunity to make their needs known to research and extension
workers through their participation in training sessions, demonstrations and
zonal and district committees. At present extension messages are designed
exclusively by research scientists and extension officers for farmers based on
their perception. Similarly research programs are based on the ideas of the
scientists. Under the project, more active participation of farmers in the
identification of problem areas, in the design of research programs, and the
application of research results would be further encouraged under a farming
systems approach to research and extension.



-191-
23.       However, there are many interpretations of "Farming Systems
Research" (FSR), ranging from the introduction of a concept of mixed farming
to experiments on crop rotations. Under the project, farming systems research
approach that has been used by the International Agricultural Research Centers
would be tried.
24.       To promote demand driven research programs, a FSR committee would
be established comprising members from research, extension, NGOs and farmers,
and would meet at either Jorhat or Guwahati twice each year. The committee
would be responsible for commissioning joint diagnostic surveys through the
regional research stations, for soliciting and funding research proposals
emanating from the surveys, and funding proposals for on-farm trials received
from research, extension and NGOs. The chairmanship of the committee would
oscillate between the Department of Agriculture and ASAU.
25.       Education and Training.  The Assam Agricultural University is also
responsible for education and training of pre-service staff.   At present
there is a surplus number of trained manpower at all levels and many of them
are un-employed. All positions at the village level extension worker (VLEW)
level are also filled. Therefore, the project would not support any pre-
service training, except for women candidates. The objective is to increase
women representation in the extension service as their present number is
minimal.
26.       ASAU would continue to provide in-service training, the function
which was not accomplished under the NAEP III. The training would support
research aimed at technology generation, strengthen extension service, and
develop a farming systems approach to research with a subsidiary aim of
improving linkages among research scientists, extension staff and the farming
community. The training facility at Naltali would be upgraded to function as
a state level staff Training Institute.
27.       There is clear need to provide in-service training to both staff
and farmers. However, the need for pre-service training and education would
critically be evaluated before any additional support is provided. Given the
over supply of graduates and the complete staffing of the Agricultural
Department, there are indications that the output of graduates and VLEW should
be curtailed.
28.       In service training and farmers training is decided centrally and
does not appear to be related to identified needs at the field level. This is
also a lack of an overall policy for training in the development plan of the
state. There is no clear allocation of responsibility for training at the
various levels. Within the crop sector both ASAU and the department of
Agriculture are providing training independently and each is seeking to
upgrade its farmer training facilities.
29.       To assist GOA address the above problem, a consultant would be
recruited under the project to prepare a curriculum for the Naltali training
center, and coordinate preparation of an overall state agricultural training
policy and implementation plan. Until the plan is prepared, no additional
support for training would be provided under the project.



-192-
30.       Extension.  The management and organization of the extension
service in Assam was established under the previous Bank supported projects
which introduced the Train and Visit (T&V) approach. Under the project, the
approach would be modified to ensure broad based extension service is extended
to all agricultural sub-divisions. Additionally, reforms would be introduced
aimed at addressing recognized limitations of the current extension system.
The limitations include excessive manpower requirements, failure of the
contact farmer approach, lack of contact with women farmers, limitation of
extension to crops and a top-down delivery system for improved technology. To
increase the effectiveness of extension agents, the number of demonstrations
per VLEW would be limited to three. These demonstrations would focus on crop
diversification and intensification. It is estimated each demonstration would
not cost more than Rs.500 a year. The technologies to be popularized and the
organization of individual demonstrations would be proposed in the annual
plans to be approved by PCC.
31.       To expand coverage the project would finance extension service into
eight additional sub-divisions and provide vehicles for the Agricultural
department and extension staff on a hire purchase arrangement under existing
conditions and regulations. Also the project would encourage the use of
existing Field Management Committees (FMC) as conduits of technology transfer
to the farming community. The aim would be to provide incentives to VLEW to
ensure their active participation in FMC meetings. It would also broaden the
knowledge of VLEW to cover the basics of animal husbandry and fisheries so
they could be introduce these enterprises into the farming systems. VLEW
would function as contact persons for the subject matter specialists (SMS) of
other line departments.
32.       Also, the project would support demonstration of production
technology (farm power and harvesting) on farmers fields, and post harvest
technology (crop drying and storage). In addition to direct discussions at
the FMC level the project would encourage the use of mass-media (radio, TV,
newspapers, magazines, posters, pamphlets, etc.) for the distribution of
information. To facilitate this approach the information section of the
department of agriculture would be strengthened with appropriate equipment.
33.       To equip the VLEW with basic training in these fields, training
would be provided and support facilities increased on FTS for demonstration
purposes. HoweveY to ensure success of the broad based extension approach
regular consultation with other line departments would be encouraged. Since
line departments intend to maintain their own extension system, their staff
could become subject matter specialists and the VLEW would be the initial
contact with the FMCs.
34.       The project would pay special interest in promoting the role of
women in the activities being supported. Funds would also be set aside to
develop community based model schemes to involve women effectively. These
would include building the capacity of rural women in organizing training in
new farming technology. Women representatives would be allocated special
places in all critical areas of decision making process in the designing and
implementation of project activities.



-193-
35.       Seed Multiplication.  The Assam Seed Corporation is primarily
responsible for the production and supply of certified seed. However, the
responsibility for the production of breeder seed lies with the Agricultural
University and that for foundation seed is with the Department of Agriculture.
36.       To promote private sector involvement in the production of
foundation and certified seed, GOA would lease out at least five farms
including: Mohokal, Gerua, Shillongani, Balijana and Krishnai to be supported
under the project and agree to lease the remaining farms, in a phased manner.
Lead farmers (registered seed growers) and private seed companies would be
contracted to produce certified seed. At the same time, lead farmers' fields
would be used as demonstration plots for extension purposes.
37.       Land Administration.  The Revenue Department would be responsible
for implementing the above scheme. The land consolidation operation would
involve land exchange, boundary adjustment and in unavoidable circumstances
land acquisition and allotment to bring about compact holdings. Once
consolidated, fragmentation of holdings in future would, to the extent
possible, be kept in check through persuasive and legal measures embodied in
the Assam Land Consolidation act of 1960.
38.       Though the government is legally empowered to enforce the Act,
implementing staff would be required first to convince farmers on the benefits
of land consolidation and enlist their interest in the program. Only in
exceptional cases would land acquisition become necessary. In such cases,
adequate compensation would be provided. To minimize problems, beneficiaries
would be encouraged to participate at every stage of the program; including
planning, desigring and implementation of land consolidation. FMCs would be a
useful vehicle to solicit the cooperation of prospective participants in the
program.
39.       The project would update the record of tenancy rights; convert
annual pattas (land leases) into long term leases, currently 20 years, improve
field irrigation and drainage system, and promote better land use for economic
purpose. The responsibility for implementing the scheme would squarely lie
with the Director of Land Requisition and Reforms under the Revenue Department
and would be assisted by the Department of Agriculture, specially its
engineering wing. Two committees would be created to monitor progress, and
coordinate implementation. The committee at the district level would be
headed by the Deputy Commissioner of Kamrup district, while the state level
committee would be chaired by the Secretary (Revenue) with representatives of
farmers, NGOs, and selected staff of the Departments of Agriculture and
Extension.
40.       Because of the pilot nature of the land consolidation program, it
does not include cost recovery from farmers. Nevertheless the Land
consolidation Act of 1960 provides for cost recovery of up-to 50 percent of
the cost of land consolidation from benefiting farmers. Because the project
includes computerization of records, land administration would be simplified
greatly. This would be a necessary tool for land administration, including
land reforms, revenue collection, resettlement, land regulation through quick
access to accurate data.



-194-
41.       To supplement GOA's effort to computerize land records, currently
supported by GOI in three districts, the project would assist in expanding and
improving the system through additional training of revenue staff and a
provision of computers and associated software for two additional districts,
namely Darrang and Karimganj. However, before concrete plans can be made to
include the component in the project, GOA would have to prepare a detailed
proposal for Bank review. The proposal should include procedures to
authenticate computer print outs and issue legally acceptable "pattas" to land
holders which could be used to secure Bank loans for land development.
Also, GOA would have to design guidelines for periodically up-dating the
computerized land records. The objective should be to ensure that, the system
renders accurate information.
Infrastructure Component
42.       Irrigation Activities.  Most of the irrigation schemes would be
implemented by the Irrigation Department, except shallow tubewells (STWs)
which would be handled by the Department of Agriculture. User groups would
also be involved in the construction and operation and maintenance of the
irrigation schemes. Both PWD and the engineering wing of DOA have the
capacity to implement these schemes.
43.       The Irrigation Department would undertake detailed field surveys
and identify suitable locations using the agreed criteria for selection of
potential irrigation schemes (Annex 9, Attachment 2). After which a short
list would be prepared and discussed by potential user groups to establish
their interest in implementing these schemes.
44.       In the case of new STWs, the Central Ground Water Board (CGWB)
would be consulted to ensure a balanced ground water budget is maintained,
through proper spacing between wells in the locations selected. The Regional
Directorate of CGWB in Guwahati is already conducting detailed studies on
recharge and well spacing requirements, which would be available prior to
implementation as an integral part of the annual work plan (para 3.9). In the
case of schemes for rehabilitation, a list would be prepared by the irrigation
Department before final selection to analyze details such as: age, location,
type of pumpset, well yield, average electric power supply, average
utilization, farmers' willingness to run the diesel pumps, and existing crop
yield.
45.       Also, before construction of new and rehabilitation of existing
deep tubewells and river-pumping schemes, farmers' interest and willingness to
participate would be assessed by project staff. Tangible proof of farmers'
commitment to the project would include their agreement to contribute up-to
30% of the cost , either in-cash or in-kind of the proposed investment. After
rehabilitation of DTWs and river-pumping schemes by the project, GOA would
transfer ownership to user groups established as associations or formally
registered FMCs under the Societies Act.
46.       To ensure proper operation and maintenance (O&M) of irrigation
schemes, particularly those owned and operated by user groups, agreement to
collect water charges from user group members would be one of the selection



-195-
criteria for their participation. In the case of diesel-powered units,
initial contribution equivalent to about 30% of the investment cost would be
collected from the user groups and paid to the Irrigation Department. In the
case of farmers using electric power for the DTWs and river-pumping schemes,
the organization would pay the electricity charges directly to the ASEB.
47.       The Irrigation Department would design a training program for
farmers and user groups in the O&M of irrigation schemes. The training
program would emphasize the importance of proper O&M of irrigation assets.
Participation of NGOs in irrigation activities would be encouraged to ensure
local ownership and sustainability of the investment in the long-run. Once
suitable NGOs have been identified, they would be trained to coordinate
implementation of irrigation activities between the Irrigation Department and
farmer groups. They would also help in identifying potential
farmer groups and guide them through their establishment as legal units under
the Societies Act.
48.       Because the success of irrigation activities would depend on the
level of support and participation of the beneficiaries, establishment of a
voluntary water users association for a particular scheme, with actual
contribution towards the cost of construction, would be a pre-requisite for
inclusion of such a scheme under the project. Full ownership with
responsibilities for O&M of the irrigation schemes by beneficiaries would be
explained clearly, preferably by NGOs, during the process of establishing
water users associations.
49.       Though ground water development is one of the important investment
priorities of GOA due to its vast potential, it is important to follow certain
standard norms/guidelines provided by GOA while installing the wells. Under
normal circumstances, a spacing of 200 m between wells and in areas such as
north of the Brahmaputra River is considered adequate. However, a wider
spacing of 300 m would be suitable for moderate transmissivity resulting in
higher draw downs. In locations characterized by low transmissivity, only
STWs with low discharge design for a command area limited to about one hectare
would be ideal.
50.       In locations such as north of Brahmaputra River, twin-tube wells
with a central pumping system would be implemented instead of conventional
boring due to boulder formations even at shallow depths of 15 to 20 m below
the surface. In the deeper zones, design of the tubewells would be primarily
based on hydraulic conductivity.
51.       Priority for STWs construction and installation of pumps would be
given to individual farmers or user groups, depending on their willingness and
capacity to implement the schemes. Otherwise the task would be contracted
out, with the consent of the concerned beneficiaries. To ensure ease of
operation and maintenance of STWs, the capacity of diesel pumps would be
restricted to 20 horse power. The STW installation would be done with a
combination of GI and PVC pipes. For example, for a STW with a depth of 30
meters, the combination could be: 3 meter GI pipe, 17 meters PVC pipe and 10
meters iron cum HDP strainer.



-196-
52.       Rural Roads.  The sub-component would be implemented by both Public
Works Department (PWD) and DRDA. The Chief Engineer of PWD would be
responsible for overall supervision of implementation. To expedite
completion, road construction would be undertaken by local private
contractors. The sub-component would also include services of consultants to
assist in the preparation of designs and drawings, supervision of construction
contracts and training of staff. Contract management consultants would
include: (a) Team Leader, (b) Quantity Surveyor, (c) Road Engineer, (d) Bridge
Engineer and (e) Training Engineer; for the duration of the project.
Consultants for planning and detail engineering services would include: Design
and Soil Engineers for 36 man-months. Roads to be upgraded have been selected
in significant-length stretches to facilitate tendering and contract
supervision. Because more detailed work including designs, drawings and
preparation of specifications and bidding documents for rural roads would be
required before implementation starts, a realistic project implementation plan
would be part of the annual work plan.
53.       Most roads in the project area, especially Major District Roads
(MDRs) and Ordinary District Roads (ODRs) would be constructed with a
formation width (shoulder edge to shoulder edge) of 7.5 m and a carriageway
width of 3.5 m. This cross-section would of sufficient width to be
strengthened when traffic develops. Bituminous surfacing is not contemplated,
although on environmental grounds it may be necessary to minimize dust in
large settlements. However, for DRDA roads which pass through highly
inhabited areas, the full 7.5 m formation may not be attainable. Under these
circumstances the toe of embankments may be supported by small retaining
walls, thus avoiding the need to take land and/or damage buildings.
54.       Minor cross-drainage structures would be provided by single or
multiple lines of 1 m diameter Class NP2 reinforced concrete pipes with head
walls. The crossings of larger streams would be by means of slab culverts on
mass abutments of bonded masonry carried down to suitable foundations. For
river crossings, bridges would be designed in reinforced concrete and would be
single lane for village roads, but double lane in the case of MDRs.
55.       Because the condition of rural roads is deplorable especially
during the monsoon season due to poor repair and maintenance, the consultants
provided under the project to assist GOA prepare a road maintenance policy and
financing plan should examine the possibility of mobilizing rural communities
to provide labor input as "in-kind" tax. Also, centrally sponsored employment
schemes could be tried for road repair and maintenance on a pilot basis in
selected districts. For example, funds are allocated annually to DRDA for
employment generating schemes, but no effort has been made to use these funds
for road maintenance. Also the possibility of using taxes on fuel under the
"central road funds", and market cess would be examined.



I



-197-                            Annex 14
p
C                            i 
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~  
*4
cc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ui~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
p r~~~~~~~~~~~
54
I- =~~~~~~~_ IK~~~~~~I~      -                                        I.U  -- --          
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~al
U~~~~~~~~~~1
I- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    P
"I~~F



ASSAM RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
ID   Namae __21 lI21 n 2 Asn 
35            Audit Report 1997/98
36            Audit Report 1998/99
37            Audit Report 1999/00
38            Audit Report 2000/01
39            Audit Report 2001/02
40            Audit Report 2002/03
41   Policy Reform
42       00 to invite private sector for seed farms and nurseries
43        00 extending lease periods for water bodies
44        Five year plan to phase out agricultural input subsidies                           i
45        Phase out subsidies for farm machinery hire service                                Z I.
46        Schedule for isplementation of the Irrigation Act of 1992                           B
47       00 to facilitate transfer oi irrigation schems
48        Schedule to phase out unprofitable public undrtakings
49       Assign responsibility of fisheries developoent to DOF
so       Assign responsibility for road maintenance to PWD                                   Hs
51   Iish Developmeit                                                                            -III-
52        Prepare bids for large fish tanks (beels)
53        gomst.uct larg. fish tak                                                                         -                              -      
54            First Year
55            Second Year
56            Third Year
57            Fourth Year
58            Fifth Year
59            Sixth Year
60            Seventh Year
61            Eighth Year                                                                    i                                                               V
62        Prepare bids for comunity fish tanks
u3        XAOtLfr sites A" CIstnact emuLty  tWIm   ta  a                                                .                                          _ -
6 4           Y e ar   1IL                               b t a k 
65            Y"r 2
66            Year 3
67            Year 4
68            Year 5                                                                                                             -_
Precat PAffnl MrsAchite ur     #VAulr ISwcss|  ClW                      ,P_,o, Page 2unms
Did 2/23415                                                  N a l             l aibM"on *                                    Rolsd tJp   O
_                                                             .                          .                .    _~~Pge 



ASSAM RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
ID   Mm                                                                                                                                                          22
69           Year 6
70           Year 7
71           Year a
72       Xdatitr  Ita. cemat*t becaftciari-m end cons otr u      ict fb pod                                                                          D
73            Year I
74            Year 2
75           Year 3
76            Year 4
71           Year 5-
73            Year 6                                                                                                              m
79            Year 7
s0            Year I
31    H onitor  nd evaluate impact
82   Livestock Dwml_      t _
33                                                                                         C pit Al piogrsa
04            Year I
as            Year 2
36            Year 3
87            Year 4
U             Year S
39            Yer 6
90            Year I
91           Year I
92       Strengthen disease diegnisis And investigation laboratories
93       Refurbish buildings for training
94       Train self-employed livestock technicians
95       Train Subject Katter Specialists
96       Support forage seed production
97   Sorticultural Develogeat
St    l treagtbs  23 pY          orcl as Irab_D
99           Year I
100           Year 2
101           Year 3
102           Year 4
P.  tid lSrikcw and5 AW|t  CdSwAml                                                       Pigou                          SWW *
0:5i  V.%                                                                                                               FWl -0 *RlUp  O
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pg '                                                                                                -



-200-
LU
CC
uJ
U.
I-
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
I-~~~~~~~~~~~C
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



ASSAM RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
ID   N                                                                                   1ae21044 aA22kal_ 
137            Year 3
138           Year 4                                                                                                       Pow"_
139           Year                                                                         ,
140           Yar 6
141           Year 7
142           Year A
143       Identify  emmeficiexiea and Construct Yw  shallow tuewlls                         
144           Year 1
145           Year 2
146            Year 3
141           Year 4
148           Year S
149           Year 6
ISO           Year 7
151           Year A
152  IXtitutioma  Devlogei t
153       Strengthen six Regional Research Stations under ASAI,
154       Eatablish Soil and Water Hanagment pilot projece  |-___ _ ISI_ _ O
155       Pefurbish OSTC at Jorhat tor pre-srvice extension training
156       Refurbish ASAU facilLties for in-service extension  training
157       Train farmers in animal and crop husbandry
158       tpgrade training facility at Naitoli                                           | i __ ______  __
159       Extend coverage of Extension aervice to 8 sub-divisions
160       Support field Trial stations
161       improve extension information system
162       Strengthen breeder seed farms under ASAUi
163       Strengthen Foundaton and Certitfid Seed farms
164       Carry-out ceadastral surveys
165       Update lend records
166       Consolidate traesnted landholdings in 15 vi1les
P.      sl  strudurtXe snd Agrkulso! Swvt                  CJfC71 __ Poge                                                  Sw
OVA: :2/Z235                                               Ncrkl                            am                               w  *RUp   O
_                  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a p5"






-202-
Annex 15
ASSAM RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
schedule of Project supervision
S-mester          Expected Staff Requirements            Staff Input
(staff Weeks)
FY96 I            Procurement                                  4
Disbursement
Roads Engineer
Finance/MIS specialist
FY 96 II          Water Management Specialist                  5
Anthropologist
Environmentalist
Fisheries Expert
Agriculturalist
FY97 I            Roads Engineer                               4
Irrigation Engineer
Economist
WID Specialist
FY97 II           Roads Engineer                               4
Anthropologist
Agriculturalist
Water Management Specialist
FY98 I            Economist                                    3
Agriculturalist
Environmentalist
FY98 II           Fisheries Expert                             3
Horticulturalist
Roads Engineer
FY99 I            Anthropologist                               4
Agriculturalist
Water Management Specialist
Roads Engineer/Procurement
specialist
FY99 II            (Mid-Term Review)                           20
Fisheries Expert
Roads Engineer
Economist
Anthropologist
Environmentalist
Agriculturalist
Irrigation Engineer
FY00 I            Economist                                    1
Roads Engineer
FY00 II           HIS Specialist                               2
WID Specialist
Procurement specialist



-203-
FY01 I             Roads Engineer                              4
Anthropologist
Agriculturalist
Water Management specialist
FY01 II            Fisheries Expert                            3
Horticulturalist
Roads Engineer
FY02 I             Economist                                   2
Roads Engineer
FY02 II            Anthropologist                              4
Agriculturalist
Water Management Specialist
Roads Engineer/Procurement
FY03 I             Economist                                   3
WID Specialist
Roads Engineer
FY03 II            Agriculturalist                             5
Environmentalist
Anthropologist
MIS specialist
Water Management specialist



Assam Rural Infrastructure and Agricultural Services project
Project Obiectives and Monitorable Indicators
Project Objectives   |          Activities                          Monitorable Indicators
(a) Alleviate poverty,   Better land and water use;   increases in production and productivity of major
improve equity and                                      crops;
nutrition                 crop diversification;
farm income increases and additional employment
farming systems approach;    created assessed through farm budgets;
establishment of FMC and      rural income trends and changes through sample
peoples participation in      surveys
selection, design and
implementation of project
activities
(b) Accelerate            Strengthen technology         changes in crop pattern and yield of crops, income
agricultural growth       generation and transfer       generated as a result of spread of new technology;
systems;
privatization of seed industry and its impact,
expand AI activities          through a study;
throughout the state;
quantity, quality and impact of AI services;
promote fisheries
development, construct 800
ponds, 150 community
tanks, and 50 beels;          number and quality of fish production resources
created, additional income generated, ownership
promote horticultural         and distribution arrangements established;
development, strengthen 23
progeny orchards;             number and quality of minor irrigation schemes,             0
additional benefits, beneficiary participation;             X
construct 1400 km of rural   and
roads and 282 bridges;                                                                    O,
distance and quality of rural roads constructed
construct 15,000 STW, 320    and impact on rural marketing.
DTW, 5 irrigation tanks
and rehabilitate 150 RPS



(c) Encourage             Land consolidation-2500        area consolidated and benefits of land
sustainability of         ha;                            consolidation;
resource use
better land and water use-   increases in yield of 23 pilot project areas and
5,400 ha                      impact in neighboring areas
(d) Improve GOA           review policy matrix           policy changes brought about and their impact on
capacity for long-term   periodically, implement         public expenditure;
planning                   and adjust at MTR;
quality of annual plans;
prepare annual plan to
reflect policy changes and   adequacy and effectiveness of MIS and M&E systems;
coordinate project
implementation;               quality of staff training and impact on
performance;
establish PIU and other
project management            performance of innovative schemes;
committees to improve
project coordination and      and involvement of beneficiaries in development
involvement of                activities
beneficiaries;
set-up MIS and M&E and
provide direction to                                                                       U
project implementation;
provide staff training and
up-grade skills;
and introduce performance
budget.



-206-
Annex 17
Assam Rural Infrastructure and Agricultural Services Project
Procedures and Guidelines for Resettlement
1.        The project investments are not expected to displace any
communities. However GOA may, in the interest of road realignment,
construction of large fish ponds and irrigation tanks, consider volurtary
resettlement of communities resident within the project area.
2.        The preparation of a relocation plan that attempts to restore
living standards, earning capacity and production levels of the displaced
people, would include provision to: -
(a) assist the displaced people in the relocation move and provide
support during the transition period in the new site;
(b) assist the displaced people in their efforts to improve their
former living standards, income earning capacity, and production
levels, or at least to.restore them. The project would give
highest priority for inclusion of these people in the project
activities in order to improve their incomes and resources.
3.        The project would involve both settlers and hosts in designing the
relocation plan of resettlement activities, and place special emphasis on:
(a) community participation in the planning and implementation of
resettlement activities;
(b) establishment of social organizations and use of existing social
and cultural institutions of settlers and hosts, as far as
possible;
(c) measures to integrate re-settlers socially and economically into
host communities, if applicable.
4.        When displacement is unavoidable, a detailed resettlement plan
should be prepared, with a time table and budget as required. Resettlement
plans should be based on a strategy to improve or at least restore the
economic base for those relocated. The content of the resettlement plans,
should normally include a statement of objectives and policies and other
features.
5.        Prior to relocation, people should be provided with a compensation
package of support for housing, village infrastructure, land and irrigation to
compensate for lost assets. Compensation would be facilitated by:
(a) paying special attention to the adequacy of legal arrangements
concerning land title, registration, and site occupation;
(b) publicizing among affected people to be displaced the laws and
regulations governing relocation and compensation;



-207-
(c) development of mechanisms to prevent illegal encroachment to take
advantage of such benefits and to prevent nonresidents moving into
those areas vacated by the oustees; and
(d) establishment of a simple grievance mechanism to resolve any
dispute that may arise.



-208-
Annex I18
Assam Rural Infrastructure and Agricultural Services Prolect
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
Area Influenced by Prolect
1.        Most of project activities would be limited to the plains areas of
Assam. The area comprises 18 administrative Districts on the floor of the
broad Bhramaputra valley, plus 3 administrative Districts in plains areas of
the Barak River valley to the south, separated by 2 hill Districts of
different environmental and ethnic characte~r. Project activities in these
hill districts would be limited to horticultural production.
2.        The project would include: (a) extension services for horticulture,
fisheries, and livestock; (b) Institutional Development (technology generation
and extension, seed multiplication and land administration, and planning and
coordination); and (c) Infrastructure (irrigation and rural roads).  With the
exception of research, extension, seed multiplication and horticultural
components, which are expected to influence fairly large areas, the proportion
of land or water areas in the state likely to be affected by the remaining
project activities is very small. The extension, research and seed
multiplication activities are expected to result in intensification on land
which is already in production, and will not require changes in land use.
Likely Environmental Impact of Project Activities, and Miticatina Measures if
Reauired
Rice-based Farming Systems
3.        The likely environmental impacts of proposed Project activities in
rice-based agricultural systems are expected to be minimal. No new land will
be brought under cultivation. Mechanization is not a primary objective of the
Project, but if the use of farm machinery does increase as a consequence of
Project activities, the machines will be relatively light-weight power tillers
which are not likely to result in significant compaction of soil.
4.        The use of artificial fertilizers is very low in Assam.  Until
1989/90 the rate of consumption was about 6-7 kg/ha (compared to the national
average of about 50 kg/ha and consumption in Punjab of about 150kg/ha). In
1990/91 the Department of Agriculture promoted the use of fertilizer and
consumption rose to 11.4 kg/ha. Phosphatic and Potassic fertilizer were
decontrolled in 1992/3, with the result that prices rose and consumption fell
to an average of 8.5kg/ha.  Artificial fertilizers are used mostly on rabi
(dry season) crops. Consumption is not expected to increase greatly as a
result of the Project.
5.        The use of pesticides and herbicides is also low.  The use averages
less than one kilogram per hectare. The quantity consumed is not expected to
change under the project. Herbicides are used mainly for demonstration



-209-
purposes on direct-seeded autumn paddy. Consumption is not likely to increase
greatly as a result of the Project. As a result project activities are
unlikely to promote new agro-industries.
Horticulture
6.        Similar arguments are applicable to the horticulture component of
the project which will be directed toward domestic cultivation of a limited
number of crops (pineapple, banana, citrus, arecanut, coconut) already present
in the area. No new land or change of land use will be required. The use of
pesticides (including fungicides) is currently low, but is likely to increase.
However, the concepts of Integrated Pest Management have already been
introduced into the area, and will continue to be promoted, as will education
in the proper handling, disposal or recycling of pesticide containers, safe
methods of spraying, and the use of protective clothing by extension workers.
There is no general prophylactic use of pesticides in horticulture in Assam.
As with rice the use of artificial fertilizer on horticultural crops is low.
The use of compost and other natural fertilizers is and will continue to be
advocated.
Livestock
7.        The main environmental impact arising from the livestock component
will be the possible conversion of small areas of waste land, or other land
not currently under crops or permanent pasture to fodder production.
Leguminous fodder crops will not require artificial fertilizer and could have
beneficial effects on soil and soil conservation. Pressure from grazing will
be reduced as more animals will be stall-fed. Production of manure from
cattle may become more concentrated as the animals will be stall fed rather
than grazed, and, while care will need to be taken that this does not create
local pollution of surface water, and of human habitation areas, it will
facilitate recycling of manure to fields and composting sites. The cattle
population may actually decrease as the larger Jersey cross breeds increase in
proportion to current unimproved animals, thus lessening pressure on grazing
lands.
S.        Increase in pig raising may be concentrated in tribal areas, where
pigs are a prominent element in farming systems. Since pigs are traditionally
housed close to human habitation hazards to human health could result. These
could include increased risk of diarrhoeal diseases, and a suggested link
between presence of pigs and occurrence of the serious disease Japanese
encephalitis, which is endemic to Assam. Appropriate mitigating measures
would include research (perhaps jointly between the Departments of
Agriculture, Health, and the Tribal Research Institute) to determine the
extent of the problem, and to find solutions involving the community in their
own health management.
9.        Intensification of production of poultry, ducks, or other small
livestock is not likely to cause environmental problems provided they are not
housed too close to human habitations, the environment is kept clean, and the



-210-
manure they produce is recycled. In tea growing areas care should be taken
that grass for animals is not cut from areas which may have been sprayed with
pesticides.
Fisheries
10.       The main environmental impacts likely to arise from fisheries are
loss of existing habitat hence possible loss in biodiversity; and change in
water quality through overloading with organic matter.
11.       The Project proposes rehabilitation of existing fishing places
rather than the creation of new ones. This will result in a change from
wetland habitats to open water with balanced vegetation and fish life below
the surface, some loss of existing habitats will occur. The proportion in the
State overall will be small (2 per cent). It is proposed to rehabilitate so
of the existing 906 beels (5 per cent), and 3 per cent of existing derelict
tanks or ponds and swamps. Local changes are likely to occur in both resident
and migratory wild life, e.g. the numbers of snakes, frogs and insects were
reported as having declined in numbers at one rehabilitated fish pond. A
counterbalancing positive benefit could be reduction in malaria and other
insect- or water-borne diseases. A possible mitigating action would be to
leave some existing vegetation untouched in the water body as wildlife refuges
and genetic reservoirs. Care should also be taken to ensure that breeding
areas for wild fish are not lost. Preliminary studies by professionals
jointly with local community members should be made of each proposed
rehabilitation site, and the environmental issues discussed with the community
before any action is taken.
12.       The second environmental concern is change in water quality in
enclosed water bodies due to overloading with organic manure. The BOD will
increase, which will affect the growth of fish and allow undesirable weeds,
particularly water hyacinth, to grow, leading to eutrophication. So that
farmers may monitor and control the water quality of their ponds the Project
is proposing to provide analysis kits for water and soil to farmers, backed up
by Government water and soil testing facilities through the area, and training
in their use. Water hyacinth is a serious weed problem in water bodies
throughout the State. Only mechanical means are currently used to remove it,
and weed arresters are used to prevent its entry into fishing areas. No
economically viable use has yet been found for water hyacinth, although
studies to find utility for the bio-mass are being undertaken at the Regional
Research center at Jorhat. On a broader scale water quality throughout the
State needs to be protected against pollution from sewerage and industrial
effluent. The Pollution Control Board monitors water quality and is empowered
to discipline offenders. If called upon the PCB will assist the Department of
Fisheries in this regard.
Minor Irrication
13.       Environmental impacts from the irrigation component of the Project
are not expected to be significant. The Project proposes to irrigate from new
shallow tube wells or minor irrigation projects about 50,000 ha of formerly
non-irrigated land and stabilize some deep tube wells commanding some 4500 ha.



-211-
The withdrawal of more irrigation water is unlikely to deplete groundwater,
since recharge greatly exceeds the rate of withdrawal. It may have positive
benefits in countering the rising water table, thus lessening the problem of
water-logging. Equally drainage of newly irrigated areas is not expected to
be a problem, since farmers, (who will be managing their own projects) are
unlikely to use excess water because they will be paying a charge for it.
Since soils often are high in iron the groundwater also has a high iron
content, and this could lead to land degradation and lower yields. Irrigation
may have some effect on the quality of surface run-off water. The surface
water schemes proposed under the Project are unlikely to submerge any habitats
or cultivated lands.
Rural Roads
14.       Since the roads program is comprised only of rehabilitation of
existing roads no significant loss of agricultural land will be required.
Bridge replacement and road surfacing will require aggregate from quarries or
boulders. To avoid additional dust, noise, and visual pollution existing
rather than new quarries should be used where possible, and quarry sites
should be screened by trees or in other ways. If boulders must be extracted
from river beds to prevent erosion of the bed they should be removed from
shallow depths only. Regular removal of vegetation from around the piers of
bridges should be undertaken before the wet season so that the free flow of
water is not impeded. Flooding in the larger rivers is causing their beds to
fill with silt and become raised, and the flood area to extend. Environmental
awareness and education programs in the State generally should encourage
reforestation of watersheds to counter this problem. A positive impact of the
roads program will be improved mobility and access to market for farmers.
Conversely, however, it will allow outsiders to enter districts which formerly
have been less accessible, with possible social impacts.
Appointment of Environmental Scientist to Proiect Implementation Unit
15.       It is proposed that an environmental scientist should be attached
to the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to undertake the following tasks:
(a) screen all proposals for Project activities put forward from all
components of the Project for potential environmental (including
social) impact according to criteria given in paragraph 17 of the
environmental analysis;
(b) make at least one field visit to the site of every proposed
discrete activity and assess the likely environmental impact in
consultation with the local community for every proposed activity
specify appropriate mitigatory measures if required, and agree with
the proposing agency on ways they can be implemented;
(c) set up appropriate monitoring systems to measure indicators of
environmental change as required (e.g. water quality in fishponds;
use of pesticides; equal participation of tribal people, etc.);



-212-
(d) hold regular workshops/training sessions with Project staff,
relevant staff of the division of the Department of Agriculture
proposing the Project, and any NGO staff involved to discuss
specific environmental issues arising from Project activities, and
the results of monitoring activities; and
(e) provide reports at three-monthly intervals to the Project
Coordination Committee and the Project Guidance Committee on the
environmental health of the Project.
16.       It is unlikely that a single individual will possess qualifications
and experience in all the fields that may be required.  A number of agencies
in Assam have expressed willingness to assist in the environmental monitoring
of the Project's activities. These include the Assam Science, Technology and
Environment Council (which has particularly relevant competence in its Remote
Sensing Division), the Assam Institute of Research for Tribals and Scheduled
Castes, and the Pollution Control Board.
Prolect Activity Screenincr
17.       Each proposed Project activity, (e.g. rehabilitation of a beel or
existing fishpond or tank; decision for extension workers to advocate use of a
particular pesticide in horticulture, advocation of new fodder production for
livestock under a particular Field Management Group, selection of a particular
site for the installation of a shallow tube well, replacement of bridge on a
rural road, etc.) should be screened by the Environmental Scientist. The
essential questions to be answered include whether the project activity would:
(a) result in a change of current land use;
(b) result in a loss of wildlife habitat in the local area;
(c) result in a change in water quality;
(d) increase the use of pesticides (including fungicides, herbicides,
weedicides) in the local area;
(e) generate air or noise pollution;
(f) result in changes in the flow of rivers;
(g) result in social changes ( e.g. easier migration into a community);
and
(h) result in changes which could affect the health of the community.
18.       If the answer to any of these q(uestions is affirmative, the
Environmental Scientist should specify appropriate mitigating measures. The
Environmental Scientist will also be responsible for designing appropriate
monitoring measures, and for arranging for either the appropriate officers of
the Department of Agriculture or for outside Government or NGO agencies to
execute the measures. As much as possible monitoring systems should include



-213-
the local community, who should be encouraged to find innovative ways of
participation. A simple Environmental Status form should be designed and
completed for each Project activity. (An example is given in Annex B.)
Environmental Classification of Prolosed Prolect
The Project is assessed as Categorv B, for the following reasons:
(a) overall the project will affect a very small proportion of the
cultivable land and water areas of the State
(b)  the development of rice-based farming systems and horticulture will
not require any additional land or result in significant change in
land use; nor are they likely to reduce biological diversity; the
use of artificial fertilizer is already much lower than the
national level and is not expected to rise significantly overall,
while the use of natural fertilizers will continue to be
encouraged; the use of pesticides is already lower than national
levels, and while some use of pesticides may be required by the
horticultural component, Integrated Pest Management is already
known in the area and will continue to be promoted by the Project.
(c) the development of livestock may require conversion of small areas
(less than 1 per cent of Plains land area) from wasteland or other
uses to fodder production, but the use of leguminous fodder crops
may improve soil quality and assist soil conservation; pressure on
grazing lands may be reduced; housing of pigs near humans should be
monitored for disadvantageous health effects
(d) the development of fisheries will result in loss of existing
wildlife habitat in no more than 2 per cent of total water area in
the State; changes in water quality will be monitored
(e) minor irrigation will affect only 1 percent of the total Plains
land area, will not deplete groundwater resources, and may help
counter waterlogging of soils
(f) development of rural roads will not require land acquisition or
disturb drainage patterns; dust and noise pollution from quarries
will be monitored and minimized; as will boulder extraction from
riverbeds if necessary; improved mobility and access will be
positive benefits for local residents but will allow easier access
of outsiders



-214-
Annex 19
ASSAM RTJRAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Documents Available in the Project File
1.        Study on Current Policy Framework (Study # l)-Denartment of
Agriculture, GOA
2.        Executive Summary for three Studies-Tata Consultancy Services
(a) Public Expenditure (Study # 2)
(b) Agricultural Sector Corporations (Study # 4)
(c) Marketing and Infrastructure (Study # 8)
3.        Main Report-Aqricultural Finance Corooration
(a) Seeds Fertilizers and Rural Credit (Study # 3)
(b) Financial Status of Agricultural Research (Study # 5)
(c) Government Organizations and the Planning Process (Study
# 6)
(d) Natural Resource Base and Demographic Characteristics
(Study # 7)
4.        Preliminary Study of Rice-Based Farming Systems-Constraints and
Suggestions for Improving Productivity and Land use-Dr. E.A. Sidia
5.        Agricultural Development Project Strategy Paper-Government of Assam
6.        Survey of Farm Situation and Farmers Perception of Agricultural
Development (Assam) in three Volumes-Assam Administrative College
7.        Assam Agricultural Development Project Investment Proposals-
Government of Assam
8.        Agricultural Status of Assam-Directorate of Agriculture, GOA
1992/93
9.        A Brief Survey of the Economy of Assam 1991/92-Directorate of
Economics and Statistics, GOA
10.       Economic Survey Assam 1989/90-Directorate of Economics and
Statistics, GOA
11.       Assam Agricultural Development Project Preparation Documents
(a) Fisheries Development
(b) Livestock Development Component (Two Volumes)
(c) Roads Network
(d) NGOs/Beneficiary Involvement, Environmental Assessment,
Gender Issues, Indigenous People



-2 15-
(e) Horticultural Development
(f) Ground Water Development
12.       Government of Assam Project Report on Land Development for
Agriculture and Allied Agricultural Activities at Anair, Badriar
and Saddamer Haorar Eas in Karimganj District
13.       Annual Report 1991/92-Revenue. Recistration and Relief and
Rehabilitation Departments, GOA
14.       Annual Report 1992/93-Soil Conservation Department, GOA









