                                        Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 30946

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (IDA-27330)

                                           ON A

                                          CREDIT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 81.0 MILLION
                             (US$ 126.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                          TO THE

                                   REPUBLIC OF INDIA

                                         FOR THE

       ASSAM RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT




                                      December 23, 2004




Agriculture and Rural Development Unit
South Asia Region

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                Currency Unit = Indian Rupees (Rs)
                                         Re 1 = US$ 0.022
                                        US$ 1 = Rs 45.56

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                               GoA, April 1     to March 31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEO     Agricultural Extension Officer            M&E             Monitoring and Evaluation
AFDC    Assam Fisheries Development               MTR             Mid Term Review
        Corporation                               NABARD          National Bank for Agriculture
AI      Artificial Insemination                                   and Rural Development
ARIASP  Assam Rural Infrastructure and            NCB             National Competitive Bidding
        Agricultural Services Project             NGO             Non Government Organization
Beel    Ox-bow lake formed due to                 NPV             Net Present Value
        shifting of river course                  OWF             Open Water Fisheries
BPL     Below Poverty Line                        PD              Project Director
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy               PIU             Project Implementation Unit
CMLI    Community Managed Lift Irrigation         PSR             Project Status Report
DCA     Development Credit Agreement              PWD             Public Works Department
DO      Development Objectives                    Rs.             Indian Rupees
DoA     Department of Agriculture                 SAR             Staff Appraisal Report
DTW     Deep Tube Well                            STW             Shallow Tube Well
ERR     Economic Rate of Return                   TA              Technical Assistance
FMC     Field Management Committee                T&V             Training and Visit
GoA     Government of Assam                       VLEW            Village Level Extension
GoI     Government of India                                       Worker
ha      Hectare                                   WUA             Water User Association
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
MANAGE  National Institute for Agricultural Extension Management

                               Vice President:     Praful C. Patel
                            Country Director       Michael F. Carter
                             Sector Manager        Gajan Pathmanathan
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:            Prabir Joardar

                                            INDIA
ASSAM RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
                                         (IDA - 27330)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report (Unedited)                                 31
Annex 9. Borrower's Comments on the Draft ICR (Unedited)                         40

Project ID: P010522                                                  Project Name: ASSAM RURAL INFRA
Team Leader: Prabir Joardar                                          TL Unit: SASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 23, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: ASSAM RURAL INFRA                                        L/C/TF Number: IDA-27330
   Country/Department: INDIA                                                              Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (43%); Roads and
                            highways (39%); Sub-national government administration (18%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Infrastructure services for
                            private sector development (P); Gender (S); Other environment and
                            natural resources management (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/12/1993                                     Effective: 08/31/1995                08/31/1995
     Appraisal: 10/14/1994                                         MTR: 06/30/1999                  07/22/1998
      Approval: 05/25/1995                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GoI/GoA
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Joseph D. Wood
Country Director:               Michael F. Carter                              H. Vergin
Sector Manager:                 Gajan Pathmanathan                             S. Barghouti
Team Leader at ICR:             Prabir Joardar                                 G. Mukami
ICR Primary Author:             William J. Sorrenson (FAO/CP)


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The principal objectives of the project were to: (i) improve equity and alleviate poverty by offering better
opportunities for poorer farmers and women to contribute to agricultural growth and income generation; (ii)
improve nutrition of the rural poor; (iii) accelerate agricultural growth through improved use of resources,
relieving infrastructural and technical constraints, and providing an enabling environment to facilitate the
growth of private sector investments; (iv) encourage sustainability of resource use and quality of the
environment; and (v) improving Assam's long term capacity for a strategic agricultural planning.

3.1.1 Assessment. The Project Development Objectives (PDO) were highly relevant to the development
context of Assam: high dependence on agriculture with a farming system dominated by a single important
crop (paddy), low productivity, shortage of food grains and high incidence of rural poverty. The Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) rightly gave adequate attention to enhance income opportunities of poor farmers
and women by specific poverty targeted interventions. It also recognized that enhancement of agricultural
productivity leading to growth in rural income and reduction of poverty, would require adequate irrigation
facilities, intensification and diversification of crops, creation of rural road network to improve access to
the markets, and a favorable policy environment. The PDOs were also in line with the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) which aimed to support rural development at state level through policy and
institutional reforms.

3.2 Revised Objective:
There was no revision of the development objectives during the course of the project.

3.3 Original Components:
The project was structured in four components as indicated in the SAR:

(i) poverty alleviation: it had three sub components, i.e. (a) Fisheries Development, (b) Horticulture, and (c)
Livestock development
(ii) institutional development: it had five subcomponents, i.e. (a) Technology Generation, (b) Education
and Training, (c) Extension, (d) Seed Multiplication, and (e) Land Administration;
(iii) infrastructure: it had two subcomponents, i.e. (a) Irrigation, and (b) Rural Roads; and
(vi) project implementation: including strengthening Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and conducting
technical studies.

3.4 Revised Components:
There was no formal revision of project components although the Development Credit Agreement (DCA)
was amended four times to: (i) modify physical targets associated with irrigation, rural roads and fisheries;
(ii) cancel land administration; (iii) include farm mechanization; and (iv) divert SDR 7.7 M for emergency
reconstruction of earthquake affected infrastructure in Gujarat. The assessment of the latter will be
discussed as part of the overall Gujarat Emergency Earthquake Reconstruction Project.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project objectives were consistent with the State's development policies and the CAS. Project design
facilitated changes in policies, planning and implementation process, community participation and
institutional capacity building. However, the difficult security and law and order situation prevailing in
Assam limited the extent of stakeholder consultations and field work during project preparation. The
preparation team should be complimented for developing a project in a very difficult and hostile
environment, for anticipating a long implementation period by taking into account the preparation and
implementation capacity of Government, and actually for taking a proactive and dominating role in project



                                                      - 2 -

preparation in this very difficult north-eastern state. The Project preceded the introduction of Bank's Loan
Administration Change Initiative (LACI) guidelines on financial management and reporting, and therefore,
no formal financial management assessment was conducted at the appraisal stage. However, the Bank
could have given more attention to the process of identification of rural roads to facilitate convergence of
benefits and also to the preparation of this component so as to avoid delays during implementation. In
addition, the project design could have been clearer on procedures for attaining improved equity at all
levels. These are the main weaknesses at the entry level. Considering these shortcomings, the Quality at
Entry was rated as only marginally Satisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The development objectives were valid and clearly focused on addressing the high incidence of poverty in
Assam. They were consistent with the Government of Assam's (GoA's) agricultural strategy at the time
(SAR para. 1.19) which included policy adjustment and assistance targeted to small and poor farming
communities. They were also in line with the Bank's approach to agriculture in Assam which was to assist
the GoA to (i) expand successful development experiences to poor communities; (ii) intensify the use of
human capital and natural resources; (iii) improve the management of its resources through policy reforms
and institutional development; and (iv) redress inequities (SAR para. 1.21).

Satisfactory. The overall achievement of the project development objectives is satisfactory. The project has
had a significant impact on raising agricultural production and household incomes primarily through an
impressive expansion in Shallow Tube Well (STW). The substantial increase in agricultural production due
to the Project (and National Bank for Agriculture & Rural Development (NABARD) financed STWs
which followed the development principle of the project STWs and were implemented simultaneously), -
estimated at 600,000 tons of rice annually - has had an important impact on household and state level
self-sufficiency in paddy, and has increased employment opportunities for the landless wage laborers as
well as marginal and small farm families. Direct beneficiaries of STW component are about 197,260 farm
families (excluding landless laborers) comprising mostly small and marginal farmers. In addition, the
project has had a positive impact on raising rural incomes by (i) improving access to markets through rural
road improvements; (ii) increasing diversification into vegetables and fruits through research, training and
extension activities; (iii) increasing milk production through artificial insemination and breeding of better
quality livestock; (iv) training targeted to interest groups benefiting particularly women (breeding of ducks,
cultivation of flowers etc.); (v) raising supplementary farm income by fish production in farmers' ponds
and community tanks (benefited about 12,000 farm families); and (vi) piloting NGO-led beel fisheries
development which have proved effective in targeting poorer communities and in ensuring poor people get
an equitable share of increased income.

The objective of improved nutrition of rural poor has been satisfactorily achieved because of the positive
impacts of the project in terms of increased production of rice, vegetables, milk and fish with significant
increase in retention and consumption of milk and fish at the farm level. The objective of accelerated
agricultural growth has been successfully achieved due to significant shift in cropping pattern and enhanced
agricultural production aided primarily by the successful STW program coupled with improved access to
markets. Studies have been carried out to estimate the safe yield of ground water including its chemical
properties, and 12 blocks have been identified for regular and careful monitoring of arsenic presence in
ground water. Another study deals with residual effects of fertilizers and pesticides in water systems, which
also provides comprehensive data on district-wise uses of fertilizers and pesticides. An environmental
checklist has been developed and used during the implementation of the road maintenance component for



                                                       - 3 -

identifying the adverse effects and adopting mitigation measures during construction. Thus, the objective of
encouraging sustainable resource use and quality of environment has been achieved in short and medium
terms. The objective of long term strategic agricultural planning has been achieved through policy reforms
including (i) formulation of State Agricultural Policy, (ii) formation of Road Board and adoption of Road
Maintenance Policy, (iii) privatization of some seed farms and progeny orchards, (iv) formulation of Fish
Seed Act, (v) beel (ox-bow lakes formed due to shifting of river course) lease reforms (benefiting poor
community groups) etc. The principle governing selection of beneficiaries particularly for the irrigation and
the fisheries development components largely followed the response of demands, although simultaneously
targeting small and marginal farmers. Rural roads upgradation had been carried out in six out of 23
districts of the state, although the road maintenance component covered the entire state.

The impact of STWs on the equity and poverty within the Field Management Committees (FMC) was
analyzed based on the data provided for four districts benefited by both NABARD and ARIASP program.
Out of 140,976 farms benefiting in these districts by STW distribution, 79% are marginal farmers (MF)
and 19% are small farmers (SF). Out of 103,005 ha area irrigated by STWs in these four districts, 59%
belong to MF and 34% belong to SF. Thus the equity impact of the STW component is impressive. On the
poverty side, available statistical data indicate that one out of three MF is classified under the Below
Poverty Line (BPL) category. In case of SF in these four districts, about 17% are classified under BPL
category. Furthermore, the landless agricultural laborers who mostly come under BPL category are also
directly/indirectly benefited by the STW program due to intensification of agriculture (more working days)
and greater demands of daily wage workers in related activities.

In case of fisheries, community tank and farmer pond interventions benefited mostly small and marginal
farm holdings resulting in significantly enhanced income levels. Here also, the equity impact is impressive.
Even in case of beels program following Mid Term Review (MTR) led corrective measures, the focus was
shifted to involving poorer communities which has the potential of promoting equity and alleviating poverty
among these households.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The nomenclature adopted for the project components - Poverty Alleviation, Institutional and Infrastructure
Development do not accurately reflect the division of activities between components, and their relation to
the project's development objectives. Poverty alleviation is a primary goal for the whole project and all
project activities contribute to this objective, not just the activities under the Poverty Alleviation
component. All components also contain activities that involve institutional and infrastructure development.

The project was prepared in the early 1990s when the State was passing through a very difficult law and
order condition. This adverse work environment of limited access to the field during implementation stage
(the first 3-4 years) and weak institutional arrangements resulted in very slow progress of implementation
of the project. Non-familiarity of project staff/government in Bank's procurement, disbursement and
financial management procedures also significantly contributed to the delay in implementation. However,
the situation improved with the improvement of law and order conditions (after the MTR), particularly
after the creation of a fully staffed Project Implementation Unit (PIU) headed by a senior administrative
officer. The initial delays resulted in most activities being implemented and expenditures incurred during
the last 3-4 years of the project, with delayed realization of project benefits and lowering of economic
returns of some components.




                                                     - 4 -

Component 1 - Poverty Alleviation.

Overall achievement of this component is satisfactory.

(a)      Fisheries: Implementation of this sub component was very slow during the early stage of the
project due to lack of understanding, attention and focus by the implementing agencies. The success with
beel and open water fisheries (OWF) was very limited as the project design did not provide a clear strategy
for these activities and appraisal targets were unrealistically high. Because of the lack of clear targeting,
early activities provided limited incremental benefit to poorer communities. The subcomponent design was
later modified based on the advice of the fisheries expert (May 1999), through modifications of leasing
conditions of beels to directly benefit the poorer communities, and shifting the focus from infrastructure
development to better stocking, feed, practice etc. The achievements for beels and OWFs were 2,139 ha
(SAR target 5,000 ha) and 164 ha (SAR target 500 ha) respectively. Towards the end of the project, the
Fisheries legislation was again reviewed and strengthened to ensure benefits flow to poor adjacent
communities through the development of cooperative beels. However, due to the delayed start (much after
May 1999), the constraints in the supply of inputs and marketing were not fully resolved within the left
over project period. In contrast, the pond culture has been a successful activity and was found to be very
attractive for small and marginal farmers, particularly during the second half of the project when the
activity was handled in a more systematic manner. Consequently, the appraisal targets were significantly
increased. The achievements have been 602 ha (SAR target 200 ha) for farm ponds, and 822 ha (SAR
target 300 ha) for community tanks, which have benefited predominantly marginal and small farmers.
There had been a multiplier effect from the new pond techniques being demonstrated, with farmers adopting
project models for the farmer ponds in 21 districts without any project assistance. The overall fisheries
activity achievement was moderately satisfactory.

(b)      Horticulture: Three core activities were planned for promoting horticultural crops: (a) the
rehabilitation of 23 progeny orchards and leasing them to private entrepreneurs; (b) field demonstrations;
and (c) farmer and staff training. Of the 23 progeny orchards that were to be rehabilitated and leased to
private entrepreneurs, 16 were privatized, only two have operated successfully, and arrangements are in
place to resume the leases of under performing orchards and to reallocate the leases. The sustainability of
privatized progeny orchards is questionable and would be enhanced if the lease periods were longer
(currently 5 years) and if there was better technical support to the lessees. There have been 7,400
horticultural demonstrations (34% of SAR target and 52% of the revised target). However, implementation
performance on horticultural training was much better with 20,450 farmers having received horticultural
training (157% of SAR target). In addition, 445 technical staff received training in extension and
technologies (SAR target was 126). Demonstrations of hybrid vegetables especially of tomatoes, cabbage,
cauliflower, capsicum, and broccoli coupled with extensive farmer training have had a positive impact in
farmers diversifying into vegetables. The lower water requirement for vegetables in comparison to paddy
has also facilitated more efficient use of water. In spite of weak performance of progeny orchard
privatization, the impact of demonstration and horticultural training had a very positive effect on crop
diversification and water conservation which justifies a fully satisfactory rating for this subcomponent.

(c)      Livestock: The project design did not articulate a clear strategy for this sector and this was not
clarified until consultants reviewed and reported on sector strategies (report July 2000). However the
approach continued to focus on the development of Artificial Insemination (AI) infrastructure in line with
the SAR, with lesser attention to other important aspects of animal nutrition and health. The development
of AI infrastructure achieved or exceeded appraisal targets with the establishment of 3 frozen semen
production centers (target 3), 7 semen banks (6), and 10 diagnostic laboratories (7). The Barapetta bull


                                                    - 5 -

farm was strengthened with imported Jersey bulls and heifers, but transportation and reception
arrangements were inadequate and there were acclimatization problems due to which 33 of the 100
imported animals died. The project supported the improvement of disease investigation laboratories, but
animal health services remain weak, particularly in respect of effectively controlling liver fluke and foot
and mouth disease. The target for AI set out in the SAR was unrealistically high and disproportionate to the
number of cattle available in the State. This also resulted in somewhat lowering of achievements and
benefits. During the project period, 495,619 artificial inseminations have been completed resulting in the
birth of more than 164,500 crossbred calves. The success rate with AI has risen slowly, but at 42% is
currently above the national average of 39%. The increase in annual milk production from project activities
has been estimated at 57 M liters (appraisal target was 140 M liters after 10 years). Per capita milk intake
has increased from 80.4 gm/day to 185 gm/day after the project intervention. However, there was
inadequate integration between agricultural extension services and the livestock activities. In absence of any
clear strategy for milk marketing in the project design, milk surpluses have occurred in some areas due to
increased production from crossbred cows. Activity achievement was therefore moderately satisfactory.

Component 2: Institutional Development

Overall achievement of this component is moderately satisfactory.

(a)      Technology Generation: Activities focused on strengthening research capabilities including
upgrading six regional agricultural research stations, and one station each for livestock and horticultural
research, and the funding of one new fisheries research station during the initial three years. The planned
infrastructure development has been completed but the investment in these facilities has limited impact on
research activities that directly support the field activities of the project. Supervision missions, particularly
during the last three years have stressed the need for greater attention to farming systems research and crop
diversification, although significant crop diversion was achieved due to primarily the impact the successful
STW subcomponent. Overall there has been an improvement in capacity of these research organizations in
seed multiplication, technology generation and research delivery system.

(b)      Education and Training: The upgrading of training facilities and the training programs has largely
achieved SAR targets. There have been 2,082 participants in women's training, 14,535 Village Level
Extension Workers (VLEW) have been trained, and 8,820 farmers have participated in training. National
Institute for Agricultural Extension Management (MANAGE), Hyderabad in association with the Assam
Agricultural University (AAU) conducted training for 1,764 FMCs, and this has had a positive impact on
the management and operation of FMCs, particularly in relation to project STW and mechanization
activities. There have been good productivity increases in the STW areas with significant crop
diversification particularly into vegetable production facilitated by horticultural training and availability of
irrigation water. The impact would have been further enhanced if research and extension had been better
coordinated with other project activities and provided clearer guidance during the early years of the project
on economically viable farming systems.

(c)      Extension Service: Infrastructure and equipment has been provided to expand extension services to
all agricultural sub-divisions including construction of 8 new sub-divisional offices. There have been 7,976
farm demonstrations (83% of SAR target). Although there have been a large number of demonstrations the
approach basically follows the traditional Training & Visit (T&V) model with FMCs replacing farmer
groups, and the system is delivering narrowly based technical messages with relatively weak
research/extension linkages.




                                                       - 6 -

(d)      Seed Multiplication: Storage and processing facilities were provided at six locations (full SAR
achievement) to support GoA's plan for the production of breeder, foundation and certified seed. This
enhanced availability of improved varieties of seeds, and also facilitated crop diversification.

(e)      Land Administration: In view of the high level of land fragmentation, the project design correctly
recognized the need for land consolidation, and a 3-year pilot project of 10,000 ha was envisaged. But the
design did not foresee the risks related to social issues in connection with land consolidation. After
considerable efforts in an area of about 400 ha, 72 ha belonging to 90 landholders was identified as suitable
for reallocation, but the unwillingness of farmers to part with land of better quality without adequate
compensation resulted in the activity being suspended at the MTR. There was no achievement on the
computerization of land records, but this activity is now underway through a separate GoI project.

Component 3: Infrastructure

Overall achievement of this component is satisfactory.

(a)      Irrigation: The project strategy was to develop irrigation works/systems for the poor farming
communities through construction of 15,000 STWs, rehabilitating 320 Deep Tube wells (DTW), 150 River
Pumping Schemes (RPS), and the construction of 5 pilot irrigation tanks. The STW program has been
particularly successful and GoA was able to identify at an early stage the potential of this activity. The
flexibility on the part of the Bank allowed this program to be significantly increased at the MTR and
thereafter. Other planned irrigation activities have not achieved the same measure of success as the STW
program.

(i) Shallow Tube Wells (with diesel pump sets)
Achievement has been 70,450 (SAR target 15,000 revised to 70,000) with 154,990 ha being brought under
irrigation (33,000ha SAR target), and increasing cropping intensity in the STW areas from 150% to 195%
(213% as per latest Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) report ­ SAR target 210% after 10 years). FMC's
have played a key role in coordinating farmer participation, and 9,955 FMC's have been involved. The
success of the STW activities under this project influenced GoA to seek NABARD financing for an
additional 99,000 STWs (installed in 2000/2001). Project and NABARD STWs have had an important
impact on family and state level self-sufficiency in paddy, with an estimated annual increase of 600,000
tons of rice (SAR target was 132,000 tons of paddy equivalent to 80,000 tons of rice) and the state has
become more or less self-sufficient in rice for the first time in two decades. The beneficiaries are fully
responsible for STW operation and maintenance, and the sustainability of the STWs that have been
installed is likely. Before any further large-scale expansion of STWs can be taken up, studies are needed to
determine safe yield of ground water. The project has completed this study with the help of external
consultants, which also indicate district-wise levels of iron, fluorides, arsenic and hydrocarbon in the
ground water system. Activity achievement was highly satisfactory.

(ii) Deep Tube Wells and River Pumping Schemes (RPS)
Achievements have been 138 DTWs (SAR target 320), 54 RPS (SAR target 150), and of these, only 149
(99 DTWs and 50 RPS) have been handed over to Water User Associations (WUA) for management. It is
estimated that only 32% and 29% of the potential areas are being irrigated respectively with DTWs and
RPS, and there has been low recovery of beneficiary contributions to these schemes. The lack of farmer
enthusiasm for these activities is due to inadequate involvement of the beneficiaries in the initial site
selection (done well before the project was prepared), delayed NGO involvement in this process, and also
the high cost of rehabilitation and the consequent higher cost of the beneficiary share in comparison to the


                                                      - 7 -

STW program. The longer-term sustainability of the DTW and RPS schemes is unlikely. Activity
achievement was unsatisfactory.

(iii) Community Managed Lift Irrigation Schemes (CMLIS)
CMLIS is an additional pilot activity, and 10 schemes have been completed. NGOs have been involved in
mobilizing beneficiaries and in forming WUAs. Beneficiary contributions have been received for all
schemes. It is too early to evaluate this activity, but it appears to have potential where STW is not feasible
due to technical reasons, and surface water is easily available.

(iv) Tank Irrigation
No progress was made on the planned pilot irrigation tank activity (5 planned) by the MTR, and the
activity was dropped as the selection of technically feasible schemes was found to be difficult.

(b)      Rural Roads: Support was to be provided for improving the rural road network through
rehabilitating rural roads in areas of agricultural potential where land acquisition and negative
environmental effects could be avoided, and support for road repair and maintenance subject to the
preparation of a road maintenance policy and a road fund.

(i) Road Rehabilitation
Improvement of 1392 km of gravel roads with 285 bridges was envisaged at the SAR stage. The
Government later realized that due to lengthy monsoon period and heavy rainfall in Assam, the durability of
gravel roads was questionable. Bituminous road surface, although costlier, lasts longer, particularly in
adverse weather conditions. Consequently, there was a strong demand from the beneficiaries for the
construction of black top roads. Following this and after protracted discussions, the target was revised in
May 2000 to about 800 km of rural roads with mostly black top surface. Ultimately, 723 km rural roads
with 209 bridges were constructed, of which 212 km roads (taken up earlier) were gravel surfaced. The
overall cost of the rural roads component was about 23% higher than the SAR estimate, primarily due to
change in technical specifications from gravel to bitumen surfacing and greater concentration of bridges
and culverts per kilometer of road length. Bituminous surfacing significantly reduces the maintenance
costs, particularly where truck volumes are high as is the case of feeder roads connecting to State
Highways (SH) and Major District Roads (MDR). But where truck volumes are lower as in the case of
access roads connecting villages to feeder roads, gravel roads could be cheaper to construct and maintain.
As most of the roads selected for upgrading under this activity were feeder roads (connecting to SH and/or
MDR), the choice of using bituminous surfacing is justified on technical and economic grounds. The
climatic conditions and the acute shortage of good roads for access to the market places in Assam, justify
the conversion of gravel roads to black top category both on economic and social considerations. However,
reduction of road length reduced the coverage of agricultural land area benefits and corresponding number
of beneficiaries, resulting in lower Economic Rate of Return (ERR). Delay in selection of roads, inadequate
convergence between the selected roads and other activities of the project (particularly STW development),
much higher actual unit costs (appraisal estimate did not have the backing of detailed investigations and
designs) and the delay in implementation also contributed in lowering ERR. Nevertheless, the benefits from
the implementation of this component are significant. It not only lowered transportation costs and improved
access to market places resulting in better realization of prices for farm products, various studies conducted
by the external consultants also indicate other social benefits including easier access to education and
significant improvement to access to health facilities. These benefits have not been considered in the ERR.
In spite of these significant gains, the activity achievement is considered to be moderately satisfactory due
to lower ERR than what was anticipated at appraisal.




                                                       - 8 -

(ii) Road Maintenance
The SAR included provision for US$8 million to be used for upgrading rural roads and repair of existing
timber bridges subject to the constitution of a Road Board and a Road Maintenance Fund. These
requirements were met in 2002, and approximately 2,013 km of rural roads were rehabilitated at a cost of
Rs 433 M. Maintenance works included renewal of bituminous and gravel surfaces, improvement of
shoulders and side drains, and repair of existing timber bridges. Activity achievement was satisfactory.

(c)      Mechanization (New component): With the successful expansion of irrigated area, and the narrow
window available in Assam for preparing land between crops due to heavy and extended rainy periods,
there was a justifiable need for mechanization as land can be cultivated more rapidly and at reduced cost
compared to bullock cultivation. GoA requested to add this activity which was accepted by the Bank
towards the end of project. Up to project end, 554 tractors, 1,500 power tillers and 300 threshers were
distributed to FMCs in 23 districts. The introduction of mechanization has had a positive impact on FMC
activities, particularly where FMCs have received MANAGE training. Long term sustainability needs to be
monitored. Activity achievement was satisfactory.

Component 4: Project Implementation

The project financed the establishment of the PIU including office equipment, vehicles and staff. Provision
was also made for supporting studies considered necessary for improving the use of natural resources (soil
and water management) and the marketing of highly perishable horticulture products. The project also
included support for a package of state-specific policy reforms.

Project management was initially very weak and problems were experienced in adequately staffing the PIU,
the release of funds to the Line Departments, and in procurement, which significantly slowed
implementation. The extremely difficult security and law and order situation that prevailed during the initial
3 - 4 years also contributed considerably to the slow progress. During the initial period, project officials
were not familiar with the procurement procedures under Bank financed projects. Further, the legal
agreement required International Competitive Bidding (ICB) method for procurement of all Goods till the
DCA was amended to include the National Competitive Bidding (NCB) method. The first set of bidding
documents for the rural roads component became ready only in September 1997. However, the project
implementation improved after the PIU was established as a registered society in (November 1998) and
staffed adequately. Since then, the PIU functioned as an independent authority led by a senior bureaucrat as
the Project Director who had the authority to interact with various line agencies at the highest level. This
helped in achieving better coordination, management and reporting. The PIU was adequately staffed with a
senior technical staff being trained in Bank procurement procedures, which helped in the procurement
process. While the change in the institutional framework in the PIU vastly improved overall performance,
the consequential impact on the accounting and reporting arrangements was not initially achieved to the
desired level. The financial reporting during initial years primarily focused on disbursement to
implementing agencies and preparation of withdrawal claims. The situation improved significantly with
several initiatives taken in FY02 by conducting training program for line department staff, and introducing
appropriate reporting formats and computerization of accounting system. Overall, the reporting of physical
and financial progress has been satisfactory. However, the quality of monitoring the impacts of the project
activities on beneficiary groups remained weak even following the contracting in the year 2000 of the
Indian Institute of Management, Lucknow (Agriculture Management Center), in association with Assam
Institute of Management, Guwahati. A computerized project management system (MIS) was developed
only towards the end of the project. Overall activity achievement was satisfactory.




                                                     - 9 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The comparisons of the base case Net Present Values (NPV) and ERRs at appraisal, and as at June end
2004 are presented below. The ERR at appraisal was recalculated based on the data provided in SAR. The
overall project ERR at implementation completion is marginally higher than the re-calculated figure - 21%
compared to 20% at appraisal. The ERR from irrigation is higher due primarily to the rapid expansion in
STW irrigation, which has large economic benefits and has offset the reduced ERR for rural road
improvement. ERR for the horticulture subcomponent is also higher than what was calculated for SAR.
Economic returns to livestock and fisheries have been below appraisal estimates, significantly due to lack
of understanding and weakness in project implementation during the initial years, which deficiencies were
corrected during the last 3-4 years of the project. Project costs have been 14% lower in dollar terms than
estimated at appraisal (see section 5.4), but the economic impact of this has been negated through lower
than anticipated benefits from improvements in rural roads, livestock and fisheries production.

                 NPV and ERR Estimates at Apppraisal and Project Completion
                             NPV (Rs million) a/                          ERR (%)
                             SAR c/           ICR             SAR b/          SAR c/          ICR
Overall Project              3,394          2,296               24              20             21
Irrigation                   1,485          3,061               57              60             64
Rural Roads                  1,014            130               33              25             14
Livestock                    1,147              56              21              20             16
Fisheries                      138               0              22              18             12
Horticulture                 1,159            836               66              58             65
         a/ December 2003 prices discounted at 12%
         b/ As given in SAR
         c/ The baseline ERR quoted in the SAR is 24%, but according to the detailed baseline economic
         cash flow presented in Annex 11, Table 33 of the SAR it is in fact 20.2%. There are also some
         discrepancies in the ERRs of individual components quoted in the SAR; the ERRs presented above
         are the re-estimated ERRs based on the economic cash flows presented in Table 33 of SAR.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rates of return were calculated at appraisal although financial impacts at household level were
estimated based on a number of typical models for crop, dairy and fish production. The financial impacts at
farm level at the time of project completion, compared to appraisal estimates, are detailed in Financial and
Economic Analysis Working Paper and summarized in Annex 3. The project has resulted in significant
increases in household incomes as evidenced in the examples tabled below. Actual increases are similar to
those estimated at appraisal.

                          Estimated Percentage Changes in Net Income
 Household Models                                                  SAR (%)               ICR (%)
  0.4 ha farm model no diversification                                  nc                 82
  0.4 ha farm model with diversification                               72                 103
  0.8 ha farm model with diversification                               85                  92
  1.5 ha farm model with diversification                               83                  85
  Per cow (cross bred compared to indigenous)                         416                 255
  0.25 ha fish pond                                                     nc                200
  1 ha community fish tank                                              nc                218
nc = not calculated



                                                    - 10 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project used existing government Line Departments, the Assam Agricultural University (AAU), FMCs
and farmer interest groups. Project support provided through additional staff (in the case of agricultural
extension), and through training and Technical Assistance (TA), has strengthened these institutions and will
therefore have a lasting impact. It is recognized by the Borrower that in the case of agricultural research,
extension and seed services, and for FMCs to strengthen their capacity to sustain irrigation and
mechanization services, further institutional support beyond the project will be needed.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Two extraneous factors had an important impact on implementation and outcome, viz.: (i) security and law
and order; and (ii) GoI rice procurement policy. The extremely difficult security and law and order
situation that prevailed for a significant part of the project period constrained field activities, and in fact
was one of the main reasons for the slow progress during the initial years. Assam receives rice from the
GoI to support various rural development program like Food For Work (FFW) program. The rice procured
in surplus states when brought into Assam depresses the local market price. This problem can be avoided
only if the rice procurement policy of GoI is changed and procurement takes place from the local market
for distribution under the FFW schemes in Assam.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Initial problems in the release of funds to the line agencies and inadequate staffing of the PIU. Although the
Bank informally issued a suspension threat as early as September 1996, these problems were not
adequately addressed until after the MTR in June 1998.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The project had a very slow start and was not elevated out of being a problem status project until after the
supervision mission of May 1999, nearly four years after project effectiveness. Some of the issues that
contributed to this very slow pace of implementation could perhaps have been resolved earlier if the PIU
had adopted a more proactive response to problem resolution. Apart from the law and order conditions, the
other main issues that initially constrained the project and were largely under the control of the government/
implementing agencies, were: (i) the complex and time consuming procedures for clearing project proposals
submitted by the line departments; (ii) an initial reluctance to appoint adequate full time staff to the PIU
and to recruit consultants to supervise road construction; (iii) delay in establishing the M&E procedures;
(iv) delay in initiating policy reforms; (v) slow procurement and delay in submission of claims for
reimbursement (due to a lack of understanding of Bank procedures); and (vi) a delay in the submission of
audit certificates. To the credit of the implementing agency, when GoA adequately resourced the PIU staff
and it was established as a registered society (in November 1998) giving it a clearer management role, most
of the administrative issues were resolved and project implementation improved significantly largely due to
the active coordination and management of procurement by the PIU, and timely release of funds to line
agencies.

The supervision mission of March 1997 indicated the deficiency in M&E process, and although subsequent
missions highlighted this issue, the M&E activities were not effectively implemented until October 2000
when external M&E consultants were engaged. The project was designed to target its benefits to the
poorest of rural population, and it was envisaged that the intended beneficiaries would be identified through
baseline surveys. A project-wide baseline survey was carried out at the on-set of the project; however, no
follow on detailed surveys were done to specifically identify the target groups in rural districts.
Consequently, the subsequent project impact assessments have not been able to satisfactorily quantify the
benefits flowing to the target poor rural families. Also, the impact of activities other than those under the



                                                      - 11 -

Poverty Alleviation component on the incomes of poor farming communities was not specifically captured
by the M&E studies. This issue was identified by the supervision mission of March 2003 that indicated that
the M&E needed to adequately capture the impact of all project activities on the intended beneficiaries.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Total project cost was estimated at the time of appraisal at Rs. 5,676.5 million (M) inclusive of
contingencies, equivalent to US$ 146.6 M. IDA Credit of SDR 81 M (US$ 126.0 M equivalent) was to
finance about 90% of total project costs (see Economic and Financial Analysis Working Paper for details).
Actual total project cost was Rs. 5,660.9 M (nearly 100% of the SAR estimate). Corresponding cost in US
dollar was approximately US$ 127.05 M which is about 87% of the SAR estimate. The lower cost in US
dollar terms is due to exchange rate fluctuations between US dollars, SDR and Indian Rupees, as also due
to the diversion of the equivalent of SDR 7.7 M to Gujarat Emergency Earthquake Reconstruction Project.
The IDA actual financing for the project was equivalent to US$ 109.25 million.

The breakdown in costs by component, at appraisal and project end, is tabulated below. The infrastructure
share of total costs increased from 61% to 81%, mostly because of the increase in costs of rural roads
(58% at ICR compared to 48% at SAR) and irrigation (from 13% at SAR to 23% - including farm
mechanization component). The poverty alleviation component costs decreased from 19% to 9% primarily
due to change in designs after MTR when physical improvement of beels were reduced in favor of support
to the communities dependent of beels by better technology, stocking etc. Similarly, cost of infrastructure
and international consultancies / training etc. under the institutional development component were reduced
which lowered the overall component cost from 18% to 7%.

While expenditure on irrigation was (including farm mechanization) nearly doubled, the area irrigated
increased impressively over three-folds (from 49,000 ha to 161,000 ha) due to the shift during project
implementation from public investment in deep tube wells and river pumping schemes, to privately owned
and operated shallow tube wells. The increased costs of rural roads were mainly due to change in technical
specifications (from gravel to black top) as most of these roads were feeder to state highways and district
roads and had significant heavy traffic. However, the higher unit costs resulted in shorter road lengths that
could be funded through the project, and also reduced the number of benefited villages. The delay in taking
decision in this regard also delayed the benefits.

                                    Project Costs by Component a/
                 Project Component                             SAR (%)                ICR (%) b/
    A. Poverty Alleviation                                         19                       9
    B. Institutional Development                                   18                       7
    C. Infrastructure
           Irrigation                                              13                      23 c/
           Rural Roads                                             48                     58
    D. Project Implementation                                       2                       2
          a/ For details see Financial and Economic Analysis Working Paper
          b/ Project costs as of June 30, 2004
          c/ Includes mechanization

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is likely. All project activities have been implemented through existing line
department units under the guidance of the PIU, and the capacity of these units to carry out their normal



                                                    - 12 -

development activities has generally been enhanced by their involvement in the project. Agricultural
extension activities have been extended to 8 additional sub-divisions. The services of the project road
consultants have assisted the Public Works Department (PWD) to improve its capacity to design and
implement road and bridge construction activities throughout the state. Under the influence of the project, a
policy for road construction and maintenance has been established, a State Road Board formed, and a road
maintenance fund created with a dedicated allocation of funds to the Rural Board for road maintenance,
with a budgetary allocation of Rs. 600 million (about 3 times the normal allocation) during FY 2004-05.
This will make the investments in the road sector sustainable. The main investments under the irrigation
component are the STWs which are owned, maintained and operated by the farmers at their own costs.
There appears no risk to the sustainability of this sub component. Field level implementation has mainly
been through FMC's that existed prior to the project, but were largely inactive. The STW program and
other project activities have played a key role in reactivating these FMCs and making them a focal point for
rural development and for coordinating farmer participation in local development activities. Revised
Fishery Acts and Rules have been drafted. The increase in the lease period of beel fisheries is attracting
investments, and also will help in formation of beneficiary cooperatives for sustainable resource use.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Bank has initiated the preparation of a follow-on project. The current project has made significant
investments in improving the capacity of GoA institutions that are involved in rural development, but much
of this capacity remains to be fully utilized, and effectively utilizing this capacity is a challenge for the
future. In particular, the strengthening of the agricultural research and extension system has not yet yielded
satisfactory outputs, and there continues to be a strong need by farmers for guidance on appropriate
farming systems including crop diversification. Project activities have resulted in significant increases in the
production of some crops with some local surpluses, and greater attention needs to be given to the
marketing of produce. The current project correctly recognized the severe problem of the fragmentation of
agricultural land holdings in Assam. The problem of fragmentation will become more critical in the future,
and the follow-on project needs to consider this issue despite the difficultly in developing practical
solutions. There is a need to give greater attention to effective M&E to ensure that the impacts of project
investments are adequately documented.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Banks performance in project preparation and lending is rated as satisfactory. The Project design was
consistent with the CAS that was current at preparation, with its focus on investment leading to policy
reform, increased involvement of the private sector, and beneficiary participation in design, operation,
financing and ownership of the assets being created, and cost recovery of publicly supplied goods to ensure
accountability and sustainability. The project also relates strongly to the 2001 CAS with poverty reduction
as its overarching objective. The SAR did identify delays in project mobilization, implementation and
disbursement as common problems with earlier Bank supported agricultural projects. The design could
have had a more clearly articulated strategy for avoiding these problems, such as having the activities to be
completed during the first year of the project fully identified, and to have assessed these during project
appraisal. The guidelines for the selection of beneficiaries and ensuring equity was not very clear, leading
to a conflict of situation between demand driven development options and poverty targeted development -
requirements of beneficiary contribution vis-à-vis poverty as the criteria for the selection of beneficiaries.

7.2 Supervision:
The overall supervision quality is rated as satisfactory. In retrospect, there should have been greater
attention at the launch of the project to ensure that Bank procedures on the preparation of Statement of



                                                     - 13 -

Expenses (SOE), and audit and procurement requirements were fully understood, and that the Bank and the
government fully agreed on the initial field activities to be completed, and on implementation
responsibilities. The Bank took appropriate action when initial progress was unsatisfactory, and even
during the first year, the project was classified as a problem project, and the Bank threatened to suspend
the Credit. The MTR was brought forward by one year in an attempt to identify and develop solutions to
the major issues constraining implementation progress of the project. A positive factor was the flexibility
shown by the Bank to reallocate additional resources to the STW program, which has had a very significant
and positive impact on increasing the area under irrigation, equitable distribution of resources, increase in
productivity and production of rice, crop diversification, and substantial increase in rural income at all
levels. Security was a risk particularly during the initial 3-4 years, and this did impact on the field activities
and field visits by supervision missions. Nevertheless, supervision missions were generally regular. The
quality of supervision advice was generally sound.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory. The project design was generally appropriate
although it has some weak points, and the Bank was firm but supportive of the Borrower during the initial
three years when very little progress was made with implementation. Bank supervision teams, particularly
after the MTR, also assisted the government to improve performance under various component activities.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Overall Borrower performance during preparation is rated as unsatisfactory. Due to the inexperience of
the GoA in the preparation of Bank supported projects and also in handling complex agricultural projects,
the Bank largely led project preparation activities. This resulted in some lack of ownership of the project
design by the counterpart agencies. When implementation commenced, it became apparent that the strategy
for a number of activities were not clear to the implementing agencies, and additional technical inputs were
required. For example, the livestock activities was not clarified until consultants reported on sector
strategies (in July 2000), and the fisheries development strategy for beel and OWF was not satisfactorily
clarified and implementation focus modified until fisheries expertise was added to supervision missions in
May 1999.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The overall government implementation performance is rated satisfactory, although the performance
during the initial three years of the project was generally unsatisfactory. There were no physical
achievements during the first year of the project, and early project achievements were severely constrained
because of the inadequate provision of staff and equipment for the PIU, and staff that were made available
were on additional charge with other non-project responsibilities. Project implementation prior to the MTR
was also constrained because of the slow release of funds, complex and time consuming procedures for
clearing line departments proposals, slow progress with procurement due to a lack of understanding of
Bank procedures, and delayed submission of claims for reimbursement. Project implementation
performance improved significantly when the PIU was established as a registered society giving it a clearer
management mandate. The physical targets for the project have been largely fulfilled.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The project implementation was initially unsatisfactory due to inadequate arrangement and staffing. After
GoA established the PIU up as an autonomous registered society in November 1998, its performance
improved significantly. PIU played the key role in identifying the early success of the STW program, and
was instrumental in proposing substantially larger targets for this very successful activity. Although the
implementation of policy studies started slowly, a considerable amount of policy work has been completed.



                                                     - 14 -

The FMC training that was arranged utilizing the services of MANAGE, was an activity that has had a
very positive impact on the ability of FMCs to manage resources provided by the project. The PIU was
very proactive during the second half of the project, and resolved many implementation bottlenecks which
helped the project implementing agencies to satisfactorily complete all activities. The project has largely
complied with the financial covenants through out its life. However, delay in submission of audit reports
resulted in temporary suspension of SOE based disbursements (in 1998 and 1999). Audit disallowances
aggregating to Rs. 98 million were adjusted by the Bank with other withdrawal claims. ARIASP has since
obtained revised audit certificates and reclaimed a large part of these expenditures. No audit report remains
outstanding as of now. Overall, the performance of PIU was very satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. The performance of the project until the MTR
indicated some what a lack of commitment, although it is necessary to recognize that the security situation
that was prevailing prior to the MTR would have meant that project implementation was often very
difficult for the line department staff responsible for field activities.

8. Lessons Learned

  ·    Clearly defined implementation modalities and first year activities should be a part of project design
       and preparation. Fully appraised and staffed project activities ready for implementation should be
       available for review at project appraisal, and should cover at least the first year of project
       implementation.
  ·    Project design should provide a clear strategy on how the intended beneficiaries will be identified,
       and how they will be involved in planning and implementing project activities.
  ·    Innovative and institutionally complex projects such as ARIASP need to give high priority to M&E
       and ensure observations are evaluated quickly and feedback is used effectively to modify project
       design and/or implementation arrangements, as and when necessary.
  ·    Supervision team should adopt a flexible and process approach and take corrective measures based
       on findings of M&E reports.
  ·    Good project management and financial management are key facilitating factors for successful
       implementation of a project. Towards this, a dedicated and efficient PIU can improve the project
       performance dramatically.
  ·    More radical reform of the extension system is needed if farmers are to make best use of new
       infrastructure, including decentralized planning and funding, collaboration between line
       Departments and partnerships with the private sector.
  ·    The ability of small farmers to join farm mechanization groups is constrained if access to
       commercial bank loans is not facilitated.
  ·    Privately owned and operated shallow tube wells are by far the most efficient and cost effective
       irrigation method in most areas of Assam.
  ·    Fish production is a potentially good source of income for marginal farmers and the landless, but
       well targeted and appropriate market-linked extension and follow-up training is essential to nurture
       participants and ensure sustainability of both groups and investments.
  ·    Without adequate attention to animal nutrition and health, and to milk marketing, upgrading of
       cattle will bring only limited benefits to livestock producers.
  ·    Building a constituency for community participation takes time and project design must plan for
       this, ensuring adequate attention is given to incentives for participants, as individuals and as a
       group, during implementation and in the post project period.
  ·    NGOs are essential partners when community mobilization is required, but nurturing and training of
       these same NGOs is needed if the maximum benefit is to be obtained from their involvement.


                                                      - 15 -

  ·    To promote growth of the rural economy, road networks need to be better planned with agricultural
       potential in mind, incorporating well placed market-yards, to ensure maximum convergence between
       project activities and impact.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
See Annex 8 and Annex 9

(b) Cofinanciers:
NA

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
NA

10. Additional Information

See Annexes




                                                   - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Annex 1(a) Impact Indicators

              Indicator                  Projected in SAR         Actual/Latest estimate

 Direct Beneficiaries
      From irrigation                   300,000 households             202,020 households
      From all project activities           No SAR target            460,381 households /a
 Increase in net income                  From 72% to 85%             From 85% to 103% /b
 Increase in annual employment          3 million work days          12.5 million work days
 Roads constructed                                 1,400 km                        723 km
 Area irrigated                                   49,000 ha                     161,000 ha
 Increase in cropping intensity        From 140% to 210%              From 150% to 195%
 Increase in annual paddy production           132,000 tons                    409,170 tons
 Increase in milk production               140 M litres/year               57 M litres/year
 Increase in fish production             3,000 tons per year            3,110 tons per year
 Increase in horticultural production   85,000 tons per year           46,500 tons per year


         Key commodities                 Pre-project Yield          Post-project Yield

 Rice yield                                  1.5 t/ha (Ahu)                 4.8 t/ha (Boro)

 Milk yield (ltr./lactation)                     200 (local)              1500 (cross bred)

 Fish yield                                         0.4 t/ha                      1.23 t/ha

a/ Excluding training activities
b/ Increases in net farm income from farm models (see Financial and Economic Analysis
Working Paper for details)




                                                 - 17 -

Annex 1(b) Output Indicators

Activity                          Unit     SAR    Revised     Project
                                          Target  Target    Achievement
A. Poverty Alleviation Component

1. Horticulture

   Progeny orchards                no.         23                     23
   Staff training                  no.        126                    312
   Farmer training                 no.    13,000                 20,450
   Demonstrations                  no.    22,092    14,245         7,407

2. Fisheries development

   Farm ponds                      ha.        200      602           602
   Community tanks                 ha.        300      822           822
   Beels                           ha.      5,000    5,000         2,139
   Open water fisheries            ha.        500                    164
   Laboratories                    no.          4                      2
   Training hall                   no.          8                      8
   Demonstrations                  no.        625      925           962
   Staff training                  no.        215                    331
   Farmer training                 no.      1,400                  5,904
   NGO training                    no.                               121

3. Livestock development

   Semen stations                  no.          3                      3
   Semen banks                     no.          6                      7
   Diagnostic laboratories         no.          7                     10
   AI centres                      no.        515                    512
   Staff training                  no.      2,711                  2,173
   Overseas training               mm          16                      0
   Women's courses                 no.    10,200                   5,638
   Self-employment training        no.      4,400                  2,052
   Farmer training                 no.                          604,342
   Procurement frozen semen        no.             750,000      497,144
   Semen doses distributed         no.             210,000      498,000
   Artificial insemination         no.             400,000      495,619
   Fodder demonstration            no.               2,824         1,250




                                       - 18 -

                  Activity          Unit    SAR    Revised    Project
                                           Target  Target   Achievement
B. Institutional Development
Component

1. Technology generation
   Regional Research Stations       no.          6                     6
   Livestock Research Centre        no.          1                     1
   Horticultural Research Centre    no.          1                     1
   Fisheries Research Centre        no.          1                     1

2. Education and training
   Women's training centre          no.          1                     1
   Women's training                 no.                            2,082
   VLEW Cluster training            no.    14,688                14,535
   AEO refresher course             no.      1,600                   203
   Workshops                        no.        528                   640
   Farmer training                  no.      5,760                 8,820

3. Extension
   Sub-divisional office            no.          8                     8
   Farm demonstrations              no.      9,600   6,509         7,976

4. Seed multiplication
   Godowns                          no.          6                     6

5. Land administration
   Pilot project                    ha.      2,400                     0

C. Infrastructure

1. Irrigation
   Shallow tube wells               no.    15,000   70,000       70,450
   Deep tube wells                  no.        320      156          138
   River pumping schemes            no.        150       86           54
   Irrigation tanks                 no.          5                     0
   Training                         no.                              228
   Micro lift irrigation schemes    no.                  23           10

2. Rural Roads
   Roads                            km.      1,400      800          723
   Bridges                          no.        285      210          209

3. Mechanization
   Tractors                                             550          554


                                        - 19 -

   Power tillers                                          1,300        1,500
   Threshers                                                300          300

                  Activity               Unit     SAR  Revised    Project
                                                Target  Target  Achievement
D. Project Implementation

1. Studies

   Policy studies                                                          6
   Evaluation studies                                                      4
   Soil and water study                                                    1
   Marketing study                                                         1
   Fertilizer and Insecticide Use Study                                    1
   Bio-Diversity Survey of Wetland                                         1
   Environment Impact Assessment                                           1
   AACP




                                             - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
A. Poverty Alleviation                                      24.13          11.99             43.1
B. Institutional Development                                22.92            9.07            35.5
C. Infrastructure                                           74.74         103.27            114.5
D. Project Implementation                                    2.20            2.72             104

Total Baseline Cost                                        123.99         127.05
 Physical Contingencies                                     13.37
 Price Contingencies                                         9.28
                         Total Project Costs               146.64         127.05
                   Total Financing Required                146.64         127.05


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00            67.00        10.60         0.00         77.60
                                  (0.00)          (67.00)      (8.00)         (0.00)      (75.00)
2. Goods                          20.00             0.00         9.90         0.00         29.90
                                 (20.00)           (0.00)      (6.00)         (0.00)      (26.00)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00        39.10         0.00         39.10
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (25.00)        (0.00)      (25.00)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          20.00            67.00        59.60         0.00         146.60
                                 (20.00)          (67.00)      (39.00)        (0.00)      (126.00)




                                                - 21 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category              ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                0.00              69.83             11.87             0.00             81.70
                                          (0.00)            (62.85)            (6.75)            (0.00)           (69.60)
   2. Goods                                27.86              0.64              0.00             0.00             28.50
                                          (22.29)            (0.51)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (22.80)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00             16.85             0.00             16.85
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)           (16.85)            (0.00)           (16.85)
   4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               27.86             70.47             28.72             0.00             127.05
                                          (22.29)           (63.36)           (23.60)            (0.00)          (109.25)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                  Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
A. Poverty Alleviation        23.70         3.90                    10.29         1.70                  43.4      43.6
B. Institutional              22.70         3.70                     7.77         1.30                  34.2      35.1
Development
C. Infrastructure             77.40        12.60                    88.87         14.40                 114.8    114.3
D. Project Implementation      2.20         0.40                     2.32         0.40                  105.5    100.0
Total                         126.00       20.60                    109.25        17.80                 86.7      86.4




                                                          - 22 -

 Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Refer to Financial and Economic Analysis Working Paper for full details of the financial and economic
analysis undertaken at project implementation  completion.

 Cost Benefits Analysis - Overall Project

                                      Present Value of Flows /a
                               Economic Analysis                       Financial Analysis
                         Appraisal       Latest Estimates         Appraisal       Latest Estimates
 Benefits                   8,334              6,485
 Costs                      4,940              4,190

 Net Benefits               3,394              2,296
 NPV
 ERR /b                     20.2%             21.0%
a/ NPV is Rs Million, Dec 2003 prices discounted at 12%
b/ Base ERR reported in SAR is 24% while the actual ERR of base case flow reported on p. 178 of the SAR
is 20.2%
c/ No financial analysis undertaken in SAR at overall project level

Cost benefit Analysis of Project Component

      Project                      Present Values, Rs Million                          ERR (%)
    Component              Benefits 1           Costs 1              NPV  1



                                         Appraisal 3


 Irrigation                 2,236                751                  1,485                 60
 Livestock                  1,774                626                  1,147                 20
 Fisheries                     590               452                    138                 18
 Horticulture               1,296                137                  1,159                 58
 Rural Roads                2,438              1,424                  1,014                 25
                                     ICR, Latest Estimate  2


  Irrigation                4,032                971                  3,061                 64
  Livestock                    248               191                     56                 16
  Fisheries                    204               204                      0                 12
  Horticulture                 905                69                    836                 65
  Rural Roads               1,097                967                    130                 14
1 Discounted at 12% rate and end-2003 prices, For details see Financial and Economic Analysis
Working Paper Table 23 and 24.
2Derived from Financial and Economic Analysis Working Paper Table 2
3Based on re-estimation of SAR by inflating the costs and benefits to end-2003 prices by applying the
deflator from Financial and Economic Analysis Working Paper, Table 1




                                                   - 23 -

Financial Analysis

                               ICR, Latest Estimate
  Farm Size (Ha)         Net Farm Return (Rs.)  a       Net farm family income (Rs)a


                       Per farm        Incremental        Per farm         Incremental
  Small (0.39)           6,556             3,323             9,620            4,781
  Medium (1.37)         21,814            10,455            30,212           14,340
  Large (3.45)          52,814            24,209            70,725           32,176
aEnd 2003 prices



                    Percentage Change in Net Family Income (%)
           Farm Size                           SAR                         ICR
  Small                                        72                           103
  Medium                                       85                            92
  Large                                         nc                           83
 nc = Not Calculated

Increased Agricultural Output

     Crops/ Commodities               Unit               SAR                  ICR
  Paddy                              tons               132,000              409,174
  Mustard                            tons                 5,000                 4,650
  Cabbage                            tons                                     46,497
  Cauliflower                        tons                                     46,497
  Brinjal                            tons                                     69,746
  Tomato                             tons                                    116,243
  Potato                             tons                 9,000               10,849
  Pulses                             tons                                         775
  Fruits                             tons                85,000               46,497
  Fish                               tons                 3,000                 3,110
  Milk                           Million liters             140                    57




                                               - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              1992                      3    AGRICULTURIST (1),
                                             ECONOMIST (2),
              1993                      7    PROCUREMENT (1),
                                             ECONOMIST (4),
                                             AGRICULTURIST (2)
              1994                    17     FISHERIES SPECIALIST (2),
                                             PROCUREMENT (1),
                                             ECONOMIST (3),
                                             AGRICULTURIST (3),
                                             HORTICULTURE (1), RURAL
                                             ROADS SPECIALIST (2),
                                             GROUND WATER ENGINEER
                                             (2), SOCIAL & GENDER
                                             SPECIALIST (1),
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1), LIVESTOCK
                                             SPECIALIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              1995                      9    IRRIGATION ENGINEER
                                             (2), FISHERIES
                                             SPECIALSIT (1),
                                             PROCUREMENT (1),
                                             AGRICULTURIST (1),
                                             ECONOMIST (2), Sr.
                                             LEGAL COUNSEL (1), Sr.
                                             DISBURSEMENT
                                             OFFICER (1)

 Supervision

              11/09/1995                3    SR. ECONOMIST (1);               S               S
                                             PROJECT ADVISER (1);
                                             AGRICULTURIST (1)
              02/21/1996                2    HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1); SR.        S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              06/10/1996                5    AGRICULTURIST (1); ROADS         U               U
                                             ENGINEER (1); ECONOMIST
                                             (1); ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             IMPLEMENTATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              03/20/1997                6    MISSION LEADER (1); ROADS        U               U
                                             ENGINEER (1);
                                             AGRICULTURIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST



                                              - 25 -

                (1); FISHERIES SPECIALIST
                (1); IMPLEMENTATION
                SPECIALIST (1)
11/14/1997    6 MISSION LEADER (1);           U    U
                AGRICULTURALIST (1);
                PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                (1); PROCUREMENT
                SPECIALIST (1); IRRIGATION
                ENGINEER (1)
06/29/1998    5 TEAM LEADER (1), RURAL
                ROAD SPECIALIST (1),
                AGRICULTURIST (1),
                PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                (1), FISHERIES EXPERT (1)
05/22/1999    7 TEAM LEADER (1); ROADS        S    S
                SPECIALIST (1);
                PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); AGRICULTURIST (1);
                SENIOR AQUACULTURIST
                (1); IRRIGATION EXPERT (1);
                FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)
01/10/2000    6 TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                IRRIGATION ENGINEER (1);
                RURAL ROADS SPECIALIST
                (1); FINANCIAL
                MANAGEMENT (1); SOCIAL
                SCIENTIST (1); FISHERIES
                EXPERT (1)
08/31/2000    6 MISSION LEADER (1);           S    S
                IRRIGATION ENGINEER (1);
                AGRICULTURIST (1);
                FISHERIES CONSULTANT (1);
                RURAL ROADS ENGINEER
                (1); PROJECT OFFICER (1)
08/03/2001    7 TEAM LEADER (1); SENIOR       S    S
                ROADS EXPERT (1); SENIOR
                AGRICULTURIST (1); SOCIAL
                DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); FISHERIES EXPERT (1);
                IRRIGATION EXPERT (1);
                ENVIRONMENTALIST (1)
03/27/2002    7 TEAM LEADER (1); ROADS        S    S
                SPECIALIST (1);
                AGRICULTURIST (1); PIM
                EXPERT (1); IRRIGATION
                EXPERT (1); LIVESTOCK
                EXPERT (1); FISHERIES
                EXPERT (1)
10/03/2002    9 MISSION LEADER (1);           S    S
                AGRICULTURIST (1); RURAL
                ROADS SPECIALIST (1);
                SOCIAL DEV. SPECIALIST



                - 26 -

                                           (1); PROCUREMENT
                                           SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                           MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1); ENVIRONMENTALIST (1);
                                           IRRIGATION & FARMER
                                           SPECIALIST (1); FISHERIES
                                           SPECIALIST (1)
               03/29/2003              7   TEAM LEADER/IRRIGATION             S    S
                                           (1); AGRICULTURIST (1);
                                           RURAL ROADS (1);
                                           ENVIRONMENTALIST (1);
                                           SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1); FINANCIAL
                                           MANAGEMENT (1), FOT
                                           SPECIALIST (1)
               11/14/2003            10    TEAM LEADER (1), RURAL             S    S
                                           ROADS SPECIALIST (1),
                                           SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT (1),
                                           ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1), PROCUREMENT
                                           SPECIALIST (1), FINANCIAL
                                           MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1), FOT SPECIALIST (1),
                                           AGRICULTURE SPECIALIST
                                           (1), LIVESTOCK SPECIALIST
                                           (1), FISHERIES (1).
               06/14/2004              1   TASK TEAM LEADER                   S    S


 ICR
               12/19/2003             4     TEAM LEADER/
                                            IRRIGATION (1),
                                            AGRICULTURIST (1),
                                            AGRICULTURAL
                                            ECONOMIST (2)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           69.70                        132.70
  Appraisal/Negotiation                11.70                         28.90
  Supervision                        234.47                         369.93
  ICR                                  11.55                         63.53
  Total                              327.42                         595.06




                                            - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Equity
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.   Financial and Economic Analysis Working Paper.
2.   Staff Appraisal Report, India Assam Rural Infrastructure and Agricultural Services Project, World
     Bank Report No. 13888-IN, April 26, 1995.
3.   Mid Term Review Aide Memoire, ARIASP, World Bank, July 22, 1998.
4.   Supervision Mission Reports ARIASP, World Bank, (12 in total from November 1995 to March
     2003).
5.   Development Credit Agreement (June 1995) and the details of two amendments (May 2000 and
     May 2003).
6.   ARIASP Society, Detailed Status Report ­ October 31, 2003 (Financial), September 30, 2003
     (Physical).
7.   ICR briefing material provided by:
         a. Public Works Department
         b. Department of Agriculture
         c. Irrigation Department
         d. Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Department
         e. Fisheries Department
8.   Final Report of ARIASP activities at Assam Agricultural University.
9.   ARIASP Quarterly Monitoring Report (January to March 2003), Indian Institute of Management,
     Lucknow and Assam Institute of Management, Guwahati.
10.  Rules and Procedures of Panthar Parichalana Samity (Field Management Committee), by the
     Department of Agriculture (undated).
11.  Livestock Sector Strategies and Integrated Livestock Development Plan for Assam, by N.K.
     Chawla and M.P.G. Kurup (July 2000).
12.  Vision ­ Nagaon District, by Nagaon District Development Committee (August 2003).
13.  India ­ Country Assistance Strategy, World Bank, June 2001.
14.  Detailed Status Report as on Oct. 31, 2003 (Financial) and September 30 (Physical), ARIASP
     Society, Project Implementation Unit.
15.  Detailed Status Report on Fisheries Component under World Bank Aided ARIASP for ICR
     Mission, Directorate of Fisheries, Assam.
16.  Economic Survey, Assam, 1997/98, 1998/99 and 2002/03 Directorate of Economic and Statistics,
     Assam, Guwahati.
17.  Final Impact Assessment Report, 2003, ARIASP, Assam Institute of Management, Guwahati.
18.  India-Eastern India Poverty Reduction Programme, Sub-Programme 4: Assam State, Concept
     Preparation Report (Volume 3 Working Papers 3-7), FAO, Rome, July.19, 2002.
19.  Package of practices for Kharif crops of Assam, 1995, Department of Agriculture, Assam and
     Assam Agricultural University.
20.  Package of practices for Rabi crops of Assam, 1999, Department of Agriculture, Assam and
     Assam Agricultural University.
21.  Report of the Expert Group on Identification of Households Below Poverty Line (BPL Census
     2002), Ministry of Rural Development, Government of India, August, 2002.
22.  Reports of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices for the Crops sown during 2002/03
     Season, Department of Agriculture and Cooperation, Ministry of Agriculture, Government of
     India, New Delhi, 2003.
23.  Report on Baseline Survey, 1997/98, Assam Rural Infrastructure and Agricultural Services
     project, Monitoring and Evaluation Cell, Directorate of Agriculture, Assam.
24.  Statistical Hand Book, Assam 2001 and 2002, Directorate of Economic and Statistics, Guwahati,
     Assam.


                                              - 30 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report


Prologue:

8.1      While green revolution changed the face of Indian Agriculture, it did not positively impact the
agriculture sector in Assam and hence the agriculture scenario remained virtually unchanged and continued
to be based on traditional methods and subsistence farming. Majority of the farmers, being the small and
marginal with high degree of poverty, poor resource-base, lack of risk-bearing capacity and devoid of
entrepreneurial skills, could not play active role in adoption of new technology in agriculture. This called
for a multi-pronged intervention plan for alleviating poverty among them and relieving the necessary
infrastructural and technical constraints.

8.2      Despite the State bestowed with abundant natural resources, the agriculture growth potential
remained unexploited due to lack of sustained and strategic investments in focused areas. The enormous
ground water potential for irrigation was not utilized limiting the agriculture to a predominantly
mono-cropping and rain-fed. This warrants critical interventions to address the constraints of irrigation and
other allied infrastructure along with by technological and institutional development for increasing cropping
intensity, raising crop productivity, and diversification into more profitable activities such as horticulture,
fisheries, and dairy production.

8.3      In the light of above, Assam Rural Infrastructure and Agricultural Services Project (ARIASP) was
conceptualized in the year 1994 with the assistance of the World Bank. The Project was executed
successfully and closed on June 30, 2004. Our observations as Borrower are detailed below on the Project
design, appraisal, implementation and project results along with lessons learnt at various stages and our
perspective on the performance of International Development Association (IDA) and Implementing
agencies.

Project Objectives and Components

8.4      The principal objectives of the project were to (a) improve equity and alleviate poverty by offering
better opportunities for poorer farmers and women to contribute to agricultural growth and income
generation; (b) improve the nutrition of the rural poor; (c) accelerate agricultural growth through improved
use of resources, relieving infrastructural and technical constraints, and providing an enabling environment
to facilitate the growth of private sector investments; (d) encourage sustainability of resource use and
quality of the environment; and (e) improve the GoA's long-term capacity for strategic agricultural
planning. To achieve these objectives the project supported a number of policy and institutional changes
and financing investments in (a) the Department of Agriculture's activities, including the extension services
for horticulture, fisheries, and livestock to poor rural communities aimed at increasing their production; (b)
institutional development (technology development and extension, seed multiplication and land
administration, and planning and coordination); and (c) rural infrastructure (small scale irrigation and rural
roads).

8.5      The components of the project were (a) Poverty Alleviation (covering sectors under Fisheries,
Horticulture, Livestock); (b) Institutional Development (technology generation, education and training,
extension, seed multiplication, and land administration (dropped in MTR); (c) Infrastructure Development
(Irrigation, Rural Roads and Mechanization (included after MTR)




                                                      - 31 -

Project Design:


8.6      The principal objectives of the Project were suitably incorporated into the project design. The size
and scope of the Project was well thought out and focused on the project objectives. Nevertheless, since this
was a multi-sectoral project and several other components are also inter-related, the scope of the project
design could also have covered farm mechanization and market support.

8.7      While some of the aspects of the design like the STWs were effectively implemented and positively
encouraging as farmer contributed upfront very enthusiastically, the implementation of the rehabilitation of
Deep Tube Well and River Pumping Stations was relatively found to be difficult. In case of Technology
Generation, the project design helped in creation of infrastructure for research. However, the requirements
of the research activities and outcomes thereof could have been equally emphasized in the design and
supported in the project. The project design had also enabled a quality rural road up-gradation by following
a prudent contract management and by engaging an independent Supervision Consultant. Further, the
project design in case of beel fisheries was found to be less practical as the investments were planned only
on infrastructure development without considering the other vital aspects like management/community
involvement and fingerlings/input supply leading to difficulties in implementation. Further, the project
design did not provide for marketing and therefore, fish farmers did not get a fair price for their produce on
account of poor market infrastructure. While the project design had adequately supported the existing
extension infrastructure, the qualitative changes for broad-based extension were not focused enough.

8.8      The project design has immensely benefited the State by inducing various institutional policy
reforms initiatives. Further, it built the capacities of various implementing agencies ­ Public Works
Department, Agriculture, Fisheries, Animal Husbandry, Irrigation and PIU - through training, and
institutional development. It may be mentioned here that the capacities of these agencies have been so well
built in the areas of project preparation, design, implementation, procurement and evaluation that it would
continue to be an asset for effective implementation of any other externally aided project in addition to the
regular departmental projects.

8.9      In some of the departments like irrigation, the officials for the first time re-oriented for stakeholder
involvement and community mobilization. This led to a shift in the total paradigm of the operation of the
irrigation projects. So was in case of the stakeholders, who for the first time, attempted to take the
ownership responsibility through WUA for the departmentally-run irrigation projects.

Project Appraisal

8.10     The Developmental Objectives were not changed during the project. However, the changes that
were effected in the scope and size of the project in some of the components like STWs, farm
mechanization, rural roads, community tanks, beels and farmers ponds in fishery, pilot CMLIS, etc were
essential and appropriate. Similarly, it was also logical to drop the sub-component of pilot land
administration. However, it is felt that the degree of investments in farm mechanization could have been
enhanced proportionate to the expanded command area under up-scaled STWs.

Project Implementation

8.11     The project, being a multi-sectoral, was primarily implemented by the departments of Agriculture,
Animal Husbandry & Veterinary, Fisheries, Irrigation, and PWD and Assam Agricultural University with



                                                     - 32 -

a dedicated Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to supervise, monitor and evaluate project activities. In
addition, NGOs, consultants and other partners were involved as per requirements during the project
period.

8.12     Since the implementing agencies and other partners were too many with diversified activities and
the coordination had become Herculean task the progress of the project at initial stages was not as per the
milestones. But, the project implementation was later speeded up due to the concerted efforts of the Bank
and implementing agencies and completed successfully.

8.13     In order to ensure participation of stakeholders and community, NGOs were involved for fishery
and irrigation sectors in developing community tanks, beel fisheries and formation of CMLIS/WUAs
respectively. During this process the capacities of the NGOs were developed to undertake similar activities
in future.

8.14     Performance of IDA: Regular supervision / review missions always helped in providing guidance
and direction to achieve project objectives. They had always been pro-active and held wrap-up discussions
with Government functionaries at various levels after every important mission/visit. Field visits by mission
members and Aide Memoirs provided objective and useful feedback to track the project progress and
initiate corrective actions. Task Managers and team members have always been very cooperative. Task
Manager has been following up the progress through emails / phone, and has expeditiously provided
concurrence to proposals forwarded to the bank. Overall performance in project identification, preparation
assistance, appraisal, and supervision has been highly satisfactory especially in the later stages.

8.15     The MTR mission of the World Bank had sorted out many deficiencies of the SAR / Project design
by objectively assessing the status. It may be worth-mentioning that since the Project had received a more
focused attention from the IDA since the year 2002 onwards, many micro level implementation issues were
sorted out. Close review of Social Sector & Environmental issues by the Bank Mission members and ample
guidance in this regard ensured better community involvement and adequate environmental mitigating
measures. While about 59% of the project cost was incurred during the period from inception till March
2002, the balance 43% cost was incurred during the last two and a half years only. This was on account of
capacity building and closer monitoring and supervision.

8.16     Performance of the Implementing Agencies: After the initial constraints, performance of the
borrower and implementing agencies improved considerably. The Project Implementation Unit played an
important and meaningful role in coordinating with the Bank, government and executing agencies, and also
ensured smooth fund flow across all the project locations.

8.17     Problems, bottlenecks, constraints are inevitable in a multi-sectoral projects. The coordination
among seven departments was an uphill task. GoA's resolution to make ARIASP a success and invite a
follow-on project, ensured placing of an efficient staff in the PIU. The dedication and determination of the
implementing officials of the line departments & more particularly the efficiency and expertise developed
during the project period by the PIU officials in project management and procurement procedures made the
project implementation smooth. Continuous efforts by the PIU brought a fair level of synergy and unity of
purpose amongst implementing department /officials.

Project Results

8.18     The project had covered poor farming communities in the entire state (23 districts) and the intensity
of activities in each district varied on the basis of the production potential. The Rural Road component,



                                                    - 33 -

however, covered only six targeted districts of Assam.

8.19    The project had successfully induced key policy reform initiatives, better utilization of ground
water potential, crop diversification and better rural connectivity. The Final Impact Assessment Report
revealed that the Project has (a) increased productivity of agriculture, livestock and fisheries sectors
together with improved agricultural income of farmers by more than 34%; (b) Because of STW
intervention for assured irrigation, farmers started shifting from food grains to cash crops and the cropping
intensity went up to 213% and the crop productivity in case of paddy enhanced to 163%; (c) improved fish
productivity at farmers and community pond level and improved per capita fish consumption of fish
beneficiaries; (d) changed composition of the Livestock herd to more productive cross bred animals with
better milk productivity, lactation period and per capita milk intake for beneficiary farmer; (e) Improved
productivity of livestock herd resulted in 109% increase in income from dairying for livestock beneficiary
farmer; (f) introduction of tractor under mechanization component of project also have positive impact on
agriculture; (g) road rehabilitation and timber bridge conversion activities have helped in increasing year
round accessibility of villages, improved market access, increased fuel use efficiency (17-50%) and brought
down transportation and travel cost and increased accessibility of health, education and market facilities
located outside the village.

Key Achievements:


8.20    Fisheries: Better access to fish health services to fish farmers, increased availability of quality fish
feeds and seeds, increased opportunity for fish production with better extension services. Development of
Farmers Pond (602 ha), Community Tanks (822 ha), Beels (2180) ha supplemented with demonstrations,
capacity building schemes resulted in (a) production of disease free fish; (b) higher fish productivity by
199% and 177% in farmers pond and community pond respectively; (c) increased income from fishery to
the farmers; and (d) adoption of innovations in fish production by fish farmers. Quality of fish feed had
also improved significantly.

8.21    Livestock: Increased Artificial Insemination (AI) activity together with better breeding, feeding,
management and health care practices resulted in enhancement of milk production in Project Areas.
Efficient AI done (511,208) resulted in (a) higher milk productivity by 301% in benefited areas; (b) birth of
166,771 cross breed cows; and (c) improved health of livestock. Proportion of crossbred animals in total
herd increased from 3.1% to 5.1%. Strengthened AI Centers and Diagnostic facilities reduced disease free
farm animals.

8.22    Horticulture: Increased area under horticultural crops resulted in enhanced production of
horticultural crops. 7407 demonstrations in various horticulture crops resulted in increased productivity in
the range of 5% to 70%.

8.23    Agriculture: Assured Irrigation increased cropping intensity, crop productivity, and thereby
generation of rural employment and increased farm income to rural poor. Improvement in cropping
intensity coupled with increase in crop productivity improved the overall income of not only STW
beneficiaries particularly in case of marginal and small farmers but also the agricultural labourers. Special
attention was given to develop capacity of poor small and marginal farmers. This positive discrimination in
favour of poor farmers was evident from very high proportion of marginal and small farmers in total STW
beneficiaries. Profile analysis of sampled STW beneficiaries done by IIM, Lucknow revealed that
proportion of marginal, small, medium and large farmers in STW beneficiaries are 77%, 13%, 8% and 2%
respectively. Thus, poor farmers emerged as major beneficiary group under the Project. Installation of
70,450 Shallow Tube wells, distribution of 554 Tractors & 1,500 Power Tillers (together with efficient


                                                     - 34 -

extension services) resulted in (a) enhanced cropping intensity to 213% in Project area from 150% state
average (b) farmers shifting to high value crops, (c) increased crop productivity, (e) raised employment
and income by 34% and improved efficiency in water utilization.

8.24     ARIASP emerged as a pioneer in irrigation through STW in the state. Following the results
demonstrated by ARIASP, the State was absolutely convinced and taking it as an example, it went very
confidently for installation of 99,000 STWs through NABARD with a similar pattern of project design of
irrigation component. It is worth mentioning that this project under NABARD was also completed in a
record time of three years. Crop productivity data reveals that productivity of paddy for STW beneficiaries
increased from 25 qtl./hectare to 46 qtl./hectare which is significantly more than expected level of 40
qtl./hectare (SAR).

8.25     Rural Roads: Upgradation of 723 Km Rural Roads and conversion of 209 Timber bridges to RCC
in six districts has: (a) reduced Transportation cost; (b) 17- 58 % fuel saving; (c) Saving in travel time; (d)
accessibility of public services; (e) improved literary through better access to educational facility and above
all; and (f) better remunerative price to the farmers for the produce, due to better market connectivity and
accessibility. These roads were constructed/up-graded according to the specifications of the Indian Road
Congress. An independent agency was the construction supervision consultant who apart from supervising
the contracts as `engineer' also regularly checked the quality of roads. These roads ensured connectivity to
539 villages covering a population of 845,448. Further, under the Road Maintenance scheme, 2,013 km
was repaired covering all the districts of the State.

Policy Reform Initiatives

8.26     The overall progress under this has been highly satisfactory. ARIASP had initiated various Policy
reform initiatives in the State, which are briefly stated below:

l Fishery Sector: (a) increased in the lease period of Beels from 3 to 7 years; (b) adoption of `Fish Seed
     Policy'; (c) a "Fish Seed Act" was drafted which is now ready for Cabinet approval; and (d)
     amendment to Fishery Rules following review of the legal framework governing fishery sector to
     facilitate community development of beels, which is now ready for Cabinet approval.
l Irrigation (Minor): Irrigation Act, 1992 was promulgated for recovery of the full cost of water from
     beneficiaries.
l Livestock: (a) An autonomous body "Assam Livestock Development Agency"(ALDA) has been
     formed to implement developmental tasks and for generation and supply of breeding inputs. The
     functioning of this Agency in the field of Artificial Insemination services would ensure re- investment
     of generated funds into the same sector, which in turn will give an impetus to better quality veterinary
     services by encouraging the private players to compete in the veterinary services delivery systems; (b) a
     Breeding Policy for small animals & birds was drafted which would provide a direction for growth of
     all kinds of livestock in Assam; (c) a "Livestock Policy" was drafted and which will play an
     all-encompassing role in shaping the destiny of the livestock sector.
l Agriculture: (a) The agricultural policy was adopted; (b) private sector involvement in seed production
     and seedlings; (c) enhancement of farm machinery hire charges.
l PWD: (a) A "Road Maintenance Policy" was adopted for sustainable road maintenance and (b) a State
     Road Board (SRB) was formed and (c) a road maintenance fund was created with dedicated allocation
     of funds to the Road Board for road maintenance of core road network from GoA's budgetary
     resources.




                                                      - 35 -

Cost Recovery:


8.27     In order to ensure accountability, quality and efficiency in delivery of public services, cost recovery
of the services was introduced wherever possible. Under the Fishery Sector: (a) cost recoveries in Beel /
OWF was ensured; (b) in case of Farmers' pond and Community tank the beneficiaries contributed 30% of
the cost. Under the Livestock Sector, a charge of Rs. 15/- per Artificial Insemination and the piglets and
ducklings were sold at government-approved rates; (c) "revolving funds" were incorporated in the
departmental poultry farms to maintain and to generate O&M expenses out of it's own profits for self
sustaining. Further it may be mentioned that O&M costs in respect of STW, tractors etc. are fully borne by
beneficiaries.

8.28     As regards the cost recovery under the Irrigation sector, 30% upfront cost recovery was ensured in
case of Shallow Tube Well (STW) schemes. Incase of Deep Tube Well & River Pumping Schemes, 30%
costs were to be recovered from the beneficiaries either in cash or kinds in five equal installments. The first
installment was to be paid during the rehabilitation phase and the rest four are to be paid after harvesting of
successive crops. The first installment from almost all the WUAs was realized. As regards the
Mechanization schemes relating to Tractor, Power Tillers etc., 50% upfront cost recovery was ensured.

8.29     Though Project DOs spoke of the improvement of equity, the above approach brought in a forceful
element of demand-driven approach within the targeted poor, small and marginal farmers. This has been
proved to be one of the vital corner stones for the success of the project and different from the hitherto
implemented Government schemes in these sectors. It helped the implementing agencies to practically get
convinced themselves that the demand-driven approach will be more effective than supply-driven and
top-driven system. Nevertheless, the equity issues have been successfully addressed as evident from the
composition of farmers in STW component.

Community Involvement

8.30     The stakeholder participation and community involvement for a sense of ownership in the
community and partnership in the beneficiary was ensured by involving local NGOs in thirteen Districts
and through the formation of community groups in the form of Field Management Committees (FMC),
Water User Associations (WUAs), Beel Development Committees, Community Managed Micro Lift
Irrigation Schemes (CMLIS), Community Tanks management groups, etc. While doing so, the rural
women were facilitated to come forward and participate actively in some of the activities like poultry,
duckery and fishery sector.

8.31     For the first time, most of the implementing agencies had personally experienced the social and
group dynamics in community participation and faced the challenges of conflict-resolution issues and the
necessity of flexibility of the schemes to accommodate the feedback from the partners and stakeholders.

8.32     The NGO activities in the State was not adequate and the capacities of the existing local NGOs for
the activities like those of proposed in ARIASP was also wanting. The Project gave a momentum to these
local NGOs in building up their capacities to handle the issues with the community and stakeholders in the
income generating agriculture and allied activities as mentioned above.




                                                     - 36 -

Increased Private Sector Involvement and Public/ Private Partnership in Agri-business


8.33     An experiment with the privatization of AI services Private Lay Inseminators was introduced in the
Livestock Sector. Another break through in the project was leasing out of the departmental seed farms to
private operators. This intervention has been found to be successful in assisting the farmers by providing
quality seed.

Sustainability Measures

8.34     The objective of encouraging sustainable resource use and quality of environment has been fully
achieved. It can be hardly overemphasized that sustainability of the activities in the Government system
need appropriate policy changes, wherever necessary. Therefore, several initiatives for policy reforms have
been started during the Project period. Thus, the objective of long term strategic agricultural planning and
rural infrastructure development was achieved through policy reforms including (i) formulation of State
Agricultural Policy; (ii) formation of Road Board and adoption of Road Maintenance Policy; (iii)
privatization of some seed farms and progeny orchards; (iv) formulation of Fish Seed Act; (v) Allotment of
the beels to the beel development groups (benefiting poor community groups) etc. The principle governing
selection of beneficiaries particularly for the irrigation and the fisheries development components was
targeted to small and marginal farmers.

8.35     Environmentally sustainable issues were adequately addressed to studies conducted for arsenic
toxicity in ground water utilization and pesticide use, also follow-up monitoring mechanisms was taken up.
Integration of environmental concerns was tailored into project implementation plan ( roads).

8.36     The main investments under the irrigation component was the STWs which are owned, maintained
and operated by the farmers at their own costs. Thus the beneficiaries are fully responsible for STW,
operation and maintenance, hence the sustainability of the STWs that have been installed is ensured. This
has been perceived by the farmers and implementing agencies a clear case of sustainability vis-à-vis
department-run irrigation projects. As regards the mechanization component, ownership of the farm
equipments rests with the FMCs who had been imparted training on operation, maintenance and productive
utilization of the same. Since the average farm holding is too small and a group of farmers in FMC found
the equipment more economical and ensured the farm mechanization component sustainable. Similarly, the
private ownership and community involvement made the fishery component very successful with 60%
farmers continuing the fish production in individual farmer's ponds by adopting the improved technology
achieving higher yields. The upfront contribution of the farmer's / community's share in other than STWs
i.e., fishery ponds, community tanks and farm machineries ensured the demand-driven approach which
resulted in sustainable use of the investments.

8.37     Repairing of the roads was not given priority due to financial constraints over a period of time.
However, as a follow-up of the road maintenance policy, adequate attention has now been given to the issue
as evident from the current year fund allocations for road repairs in the State, which is quite substantial.
The cost recovery initiated in irrigation, for AI services, etc. would not only ensure the accountable, quality
and efficient services, but also provide a level playing fields for private operators so as to ensure that the
healthy competition would benefit the clientele and make the investments in this sector sustainable.




                                                     - 37 -

Lessons Learned

l As the baseline survey and effective Monitoring & Evaluation was not initially done in this project, it
   resulted in undue delay in the initial years. The broad objectives such as poverty alleviation need to be
   viewed holistically from the benefits accrued directly and indirectly in all investments in the Project.

l An independent dedicated agency for coordination could ensure successful implementation of the
   Project.

l The participation of the stakeholders and involvement of community together with demand-driven
   approach within the broadly identified poor, small and marginal farmers made the investments
   development objective-oriented and sustainable.

l Though the initial take off of the project was slow, this project had successfully met the objectives of
   poverty alleviation by benefiting more than 660,000 households creating 12.5 million work days of
   employment and by increasing the net income from 85 to 103%.

l The Project DO of acceleration of growth of the farm sector was given a practical and real meaning as
   the targets of STWs had to be up scaled to 70,000 from 15,000 and introduction of new component of
   farm mechanization. This has accelerated the growth as crop productivity enhanced coupled with as
   high as 213% cropping intensity (against 150%) in Project area. Further, farmers were seen shifting to
   high value crops. This all reflected in raising the levels of employment and income by 34%.

l Though the objective of improved nutrition to the rural poor initially looked insubstantial, the impact of
   the higher production of cereals, vegetables, horticultural crops, fish and milk on consumption rates of
   the stakeholders and their superior nutritional status in project area was more than convincing and this
   project would serve as a case study for other projects with this kind of objective.

l Hither to unattractive agriculture sector for educated unemployed youth of the State has suddenly
   caught their attention due to high income, intensified and diversified cropping by a `perceivably
   dignified' way of cultivation with machines and pumps.

l The important components like marketing and more focused approach in dairy activities could have
   enhanced the success of the project.

l The extension services, though addressed through infrastructure support and capacity building,
   market-led extension with high degree of coordination among all agricultural and allied sectors would
   be the need of the hour at the end of the Project to consolidate the results and further sustainably
   integrate the farm sector with the markets.

l Supervision by an external consultant in rural roads ensured that the quality of roads was satisfactory.


l Use of Information Technology for prompt clearances and Project Management was not suitably
   adopted and this could have further improved the quality project management.

l Some more innovative studies on the lines of improved bridge design should have been included in
   order to reduce the time and cost over runs in creation of rural agricultural infrastructure.


                                                     - 38 -

Looking forward ­ Next Step

8.38     On successful implementation of the ARIASP, the Government of India and the World Bank has
come forward to fund a follow-on Project titled `Assam Agricultural Competitiveness Project (AACP)'. It
is a unique and excellent opportunity for both the IDA and Borrower to build on the lessons learned in the
ARIASP in every stage of the project beginning from design to results for the new project, AACP, which is
virtually phase-II or follow-on of ARIASP. It would not only help in consolidation of the benefits accrued
of ARIASP, but also continue some unfinished agendas and cover the hither unaddressed areas and thus it
would make the over all investments complementary, synergistic and sustainable.

8.39     Negotiations for the AACP were held in World Bank Head Quarters at Washington DC in the last
week of October 2004 and the project would be executed from February 2005 at an estimated cost of
Rs.1245.3 million over a period of five years. The sources of funding will be ­ (a) World Bank (IDA)
assistance Rs. 7360.8 million (71.85 % of the total project cost), (b) State Government contribution Rs.
954.5 million (9.32 % of the total project cost), (c) Beneficiaries contribution Rs.1930 million (18.84 % of
the total project cost).

8.40     The development objectives of the AACP will be to increase the productivity and market access of
targeted farmers and community groups. The over-riding objective is to stimulate growth of Assam's
agricultural economy. However, project activities would be predominantly pro-poor, directed primarily at
small and marginal landholders, poor fishing communities and the landless.

8.41     The project will (i) support investments by small and marginal farmers in private irrigation and
farm mechanization; and by community groups in the development of water resources for fish production;
(ii) foster decentralized, pluralistic farm advisory services, upgrade the productive capacity of livestock and
fish resources, and improve marketing of milk and other farm commodities; and (iii) upgrade the associated
core rural network, along with selected market yards (Rural Haats).

8.42     The main components of the Project are (a) Rural Connectivity (PWD), (b) Agriculture, (c)
Irrigation, (d) Management of Local Flood & Water Logging, (e) Fisheries, (f) Veterinary and Animal
Husbandry (g) Dairy and (h) Forest & Sericulture on pilot basis.

8.43     Under the Agriculture component it is proposed to provide Tractors, Power Tillers, Shallow Tube
Wells, Low Lift Pumps and Micro Watershed drainage activities along with upgradation of 24 rural
primary wholesale markets and 50 local Hats. A decentralized pluralistic extension system would be
promoted through ATMA approach. Under Fishery component, assistance under project will be provided to
small and marginal farmers to rehabilitate existing farm ponds, community tanks and beels.

8.44     Other activities covers (a) upgrading dairy herds of small holders and landless producers through
artificial insemination program, (b) improve milk marketing through formation of 500 milk marketing
cooperatives/self help groups (SHG) etc.




                                                      - 39 -

Additional Annex 9. Borrower's Comments on the Draft ICR

The PIU, ARIASP Society thankfully acknowledge the receipt of your Draft Implementation Completion
Report for our comments. We have reviewed the draft report thoroughly. Although the above report has
covered all points very succinctly, we have some observations as given below:-

Component 3: Infrastructure (a) Irrigation: (iii) CMLIS: It may also be added that this has been a
positive pilot experience where collective action of a WUA with 10-15 members were encouraged for
irrigated cultivation in a command area of 10-12 ha. The WUAs have taken full O&M responsibility from
the very beginning and the scheme found promising to ensure meaningful participation of small and
marginal farmers and future sustainability. Even though the initial investment is little higher, it is
cost-effective in long run. Activity achievement was also satisfactory.

Secondly, the overall Borrower's performance during preparation is rated as unsatisfactory. The GoA
differs with the Bank on this observation since this is to be seen in the light of lack of expertise and enough
previous experience in preparation of such projects. Therefore, the agencies depended more on the Bank for
guidance. Nevertheless, the implementing agencies together with the Bank prepared the project with a
greater coordination and enriching relationships.

Thirdly, the experience of the project has immensely helped the implementing agencies so much in capacity
building, the follow-on project could be prepared by the borrower with full participation and responsibility.

Fourthly, the borrower appreciates the degree of flexibility the Bank had shown in modifying and up
scaling the better performing components like STW, etc.

Fifthly, the key performance indicators in case of number of households benefited from irrigation was
shown as 202,020 in the ICR. But, we feel that this figure is underestimated since each STW is serving 3-5
households meaning even with an average of 4 households per STW, the figure should have been 281,800.

Further, while increase in the Cropping Intensity (CI) has been shown as 150 to 195%, the latest report
shows that the CI increased to 213% and the current trend is still increasing.

With regard to the annexure 2a figures, the final figures of the total project cost in Indian rupees are Rs.
5,660.90 million, as per the latest estimates.




                                                    - 40 -

- 41 -

