Document of                      FILE   COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2951-MAU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR A
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
August 6, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in dhe performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =    Ouguiya (UM)
US$1.00          =    UM 47.00
UM 1 million    =    US$21,276
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
BEICIP            Bureau d'Etudes Industrielles et de Cooperation
de l'Institut Francais du Petrole
CE         =      Energy Unit (Cellule de l'Energie)
DMG        =      Directorate of Mines and Geology
HS         =      Hydrocarbon Service
MME        =      Ministry of Mines and Energy
PPF        =      Project Preparation Facility
SNIM       =      Societe Nationale Industrielle et Miniere
SMCPP             Societe Mauritanienne de Commercialisation des
Produits Petroliers
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Amount:               SDR 2.6 million (US$3.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard
Project Description: The project would assist the Government-s efforts to
intensify hydrocarbon exploration and to establish
planning for the energy sector. The project includes:
(a) an exploration component comprising:
(i) technical assistance to the Directorate
of Mines and Geology (DMG) (68 man
months) to promote Mauritania's petroleum
potential to oil companies, to negotiate
exploration contracts with oil companies
and to monitor the activities of operating
companies;
(ii) training of DMG staff; and,
(iii) construction of DMG facilities.
(b) energy studies.
Benefits:             As a result of the exploration promotion component,
information on Mauritania's hydrocarbon potential
would be improved and the Government would be in a
stronger position to attract private foreign capital to
undertake intensive hydrocarbon exploration. The
energy studies would enhance the Government's capacity
to assess development priorities and to develop appro-
priate policies for the energy sector.
Risks:                The risk associated with the exploration component
is that the projects presented to companies may not
be attractive enough for them to enter into exploration
contracts. In view of the companies' expressed interest
this risk is considered small. The risk of not even-
tually finding exploitable hydrocarbon deposits is
substantial but is considered acceptable because of the
large potential benefits to the country from a hydrocar-
bon discovery.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:      The cost of the proposed project (net of taxes), including
refinancing advances under the Project Preparation
Facility (PPF), is estimated at US$3.2 million equivalent.
Foreign costs are estimated at US$2.8 million (about 88
percent). A summary cost table is shown below:
Foreign    Local   Total
Exploration Component
Consultant services              1,305 /1   180    1,485
HS Facilities and equipment        450       120      570
Training                            55        -        55
Subtotal                    1,810      300    2,110
Energy Studies
Consultant services                370 /2    40       410
Training                            25        -        25
Subtotal                      395       40       435
Base cost                        2,205       340    2,545
Physical contingencies             170        25      195
Price contingencies                425        35      460
Total contingencies           595       60       655
TOTAL                 2,800       400    3,200
Financing Plan:                                      Foreign    Local   Total
------…(US$ 000)-
IDA                              2,800       200    3,000
Government                         -         200      200
TOTAL                       2,800      400    3,200
Estimated Disbursements:                             FY82 /3      FY83       FY84
Annual                           1,500        800        700
Cumulative                       1,500      2,300     3,000
Staff Appraisal Report:  There is no separate appraisal report.
Maps: IBRD 15308 & 15309.
/1   Includes about US$750,000 financed under PPF.
/2   Includes about US$50,000 financed under PPF.
/3   Includes refinancing advances from PPF.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR A PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Islamic Republic of Mauritania for the equivalent
of SDR 2.6 million (US$3.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help
finance a Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Islamic Republic of Mauritania:  Recent Economic
Developments and External Capital Requirements" (2479a-MAU) dated June 4, 1979
has been distributed to the Executive Directors. Since then, a number of
economic missions have visited Mauritania to help monitor the rehabilitation
plan prepared with Bank assistance, and to provide further advice on its
implementation. Their findings are reflected in the following assessment of
the current situation and prospects of the economy. Country Data appear in
Annex I.
The Setting
3.        With a GNP per capita of US$300 in 1979, Mauritania is not classi-
fied among the "Least Developed Countries" but faces the same basic con-
straints to development. Most of the country is desert. Agriculture and
livestock herding, which sustain 80 percent of the 1.6 million inhabitants,
are limited to the sub-saharan and sahelian southern third of the country,
parallel with the Senegal River; but even there rainfall is irregular or
insufficient. Some 800 miles away, in the northwest, economic activity
centers around the mining and fish-based complexes of Zouerate and Nouadhibou.
The capital, Nouakchott, lies in between, separated from the two economic
centers by 400 miles of desert. As a result of this geographic situation,
there is little interaction between the modern and traditional sectors, but
considerable economic exchange among the agricultural southwestern part of
Mauritania, western part of Mali and northeastern part of Senegal, which
together form a more integrated economic unit. This further accentuates the
isolation of Nouakchott, which was built in the early 1960s in a region
deprived of all basic infrastructure.
4.        Mauritania's main political and economic links have traditionally
been with French-speaking African countries south of the Sahara. In recent
years however, it has established close relations with some of its North
African neighbors as well as with the Arab OPEC countries. In June 1972,
Mauritania asked for a revision of its 1961 Cooperation Treaty with France in



- 2 -
the economic, monetary, technical, cultural and military fields. A new
agreement was reached in February 1973, except for monetary affairs. As a
result, Mauritania left the West African Monetary Union and the Franc zone
and, with the financial support of Arab OPEC countries, established in June
1973 its own Central Bank and introduced its own currency, the Ouguiya (UM).
However, it still maintains good economic relations with France, and is a
member of the Economic Community of West Africa and of OMVS (the Senegal
River Development Authority).
5.        In 1976, after Spain relinquished its control over the Spanish
Sahara, the Polisario (Front for the Liberation of Spanish Sahara) waged
intensive guerilla operations against both Mauritania and Morocco which
had divided the administration of the territory between them. This war
activity severely strained Mauritania's already limited financial and human
resources and in August 1979 it signed a peace accord with the Polisario,
ending its involvement in the conflict.
Economic Developments
6.        During the 1960s, the economy grew at about 10 percent per year
in real terms. This growth was due mainly to the development of iron ore
mining and to the rapid expansion of livestock that resulted from a success-
ful animal health campaign. Since then, however, growth has slowed down
to less than 2 percent a year mostly due to unfavorable developments beyond
the Government-s control. Agricultural output, struck by a series of severe
droughts, stagnated in 1971, fell by more than 40 percent in 1972, and
again by 20 percent in 1973. Losses of livestock, mainly cattle, reached an
estimated 30 percent of the herd. All the gains in per capita income of the
rural population achieved in the 1960s were lost during the drought years.
Thousands of farmers and herdsmen who lost their source of livelihood in rural
areas migrated to towns. Unable to find work in the modern sector, many
turned to the informal sector for income opportunities or remained unemployed.
In 1974, economic activity was beginning to return to normal when the doubling
of the price of petroleum products, together with rises in other import
prices, put pressure on the balance of payments and set the economy on an
unprecedented inflationary path.
7.        Mauritania's capacity to respond to this new situation was limited,
particularly after 1975, when stagnation in the world steel market started to
affect its main export (iron ore accounting for 70% of export earnings), while
the need to build and maintain a large national defense effort against the
Polisario was absorbing an increasing portion of scarce resources. More than
ever, financial support of the economy had to come from abroad. Most of it
came from Arab OPEC countries and consisted of concessionary loans and grants
for both balance of payments/budget support and project aid, but a sizeable
amount also originated from private banks and foreign suppliers.



- 3 -
8.        The Government used these resources to nationalize the mining sector
in 1974/75, thus bringing under public control the country s major economic
and financial activities. Additional resources were rapidly directed to
large-scale projects with the result that by 1977 total investment reached
US$176 million, equivalent to 38 percent of GDP. Most of these investments,
however, were concentrated in non-directly productive sectors. The few large
projects in the industrial sector were ill-conceived and financed on very hard
terms. The most important ones, an oil refinery (see para. 34) and a sugar
refinery, were completed in 1978 but both remained closed for economic reasons
and, in the case of the oil refinery, for since-resolved legal and technical
reasons (para. 34). As a result, the burden of the external debt sharply
increased while the capacity of the economy to serve it did not.
9.        Compounding the unfavorable implications of the investment program
were two major developments outside Government control: repeated drought
and depressed world market prices for iron ore. An exceptional balance of
payments deficit in 1977 ($45 million) forced a drawdown of official reserves
such that at the end of that year net reserves of the Central Bank were
negative for the first time since independence. On the domestic front,
payments arrears of the Treasury accumulated, and the Government was forced to
use large advances from the Central Bank to cover its deficits.
10.       The worsening economic and financial situation led the Government,
with the assistance of the Bank, to prepare in mid-1978 a Rehabilitation Plan
which proposed as immediate priority the consolidation of all Government loans
on hard terms and a few large bilateral loans (total $215 million) and which
emphasized the need for continued current budgetary assistance from abroad.
The Plan also called for strict conditions on Governments future borrowing,
tight control of public expenditure and drastic changes in public investment
priorities.
11.       Since the second half of 1978, Mauritania has succeeded in avoiding
financial crisis through Government adherence to measures recommended under
the Plan and by the IMF, this coupled with continued foreign assistance on a
substantial scale. In line with recommendations of the Plan, the Government
has secured relief on the major part of the debt proposed for consolidation
and has exercised severe restraint in contracting new debt on commercial
terms. Secondly, it has held current expenditure essentially unchanged in
nominal terms and approximately at targeted levels, it has reduced its budge-
tary deficit and it has maintained recourse to the Central Bank at levels
well below recommended ceilings. On external account, Mauritania-s reserve
position has similarly shown improvement, aided by a two-year IMF Stand-By
Agreement. 1/
1/   The original Agreement, signed in July 1980, was replaced in June 1981 by
an Agreement providing for SDR 25.8 million over the following ten
months. Full use of the new arrangement, excluding purchases under the
special facilities, would raise Fund holdings of Mauritanian ouguiyas to
157 percent of quota.



-4-
12.       The stabilization since 1978 of Mauritania's financial situation
nonetheless remains fragile and continues to demand prudent management on the
part of the Government. For the economy as a whole two factors in particular
will be critical in the early Eighties and could produce a pattern of alter-
nating growth and stagnation such as that experienced throughout the Seventies:
the economy's vulnerability to slack demand in the European Community for its
iron ore and, its susceptibility to the effects of recurring drought.
Strategy and Long-Term Prospects
13.       Although financial stabilization is the Government's first priority,
attention has also been given to policies that would tackle the deeper-seated
structural problems of the economy. In a substantial reversal of past policies
the Government decided to sharply reduce its direct involvement in mining and
basic industry, and to embark on a new liberal policy towards private foreign
investments.
14.       A new fishing policy has also been adopted which could in the medium
term considerably increase Mauritania's share of the profits and the contribu-
tion of this sector to the budget and to exports. The Government has started
to renegotiate all existing agreements with its foreign partners. It will now
deliver fishing licenses only to companies that agree to form a joint venture
with the Government or with private Mauritanians and are willing to invest in
Nouadhibou. All the catches should be landed at this port to be processed
locally and exported. Measures to reinforce the surveillance of the terri-
torial waters and to reduce fraud are being taken.
15.       With the exception of two large infrastructure projects (the Nouak-
chott port and the Kiffa-Nema road), most of the proposed public investments
are now concentrated in the productive sectors in order to broaden the economic
base and accelerate structural changes necessary for future growth. Highest
priority is given to the continuation of iron ore exploitation, as this
activity will remain the primary support of the Mauritanian economy in the
foreseeable future. The possible implementation of the OMVS project 1/ could
introduce new development possibilities but its economic benefits would be
small prior to the 1990s. The Guelbs Iron Ore Project (Loan No. 1747-MAU,
FY80) is the main public industrial project to be started over the next few
years; the traditional sectors (agriculture and livestock) and fisheries,
however, will be given increasing priority.
16.       The most formidable obstacle to the above strategy is the scarcity
of well prepared projects. Mauritanian administrative services are inade-
quately staffed for project preparation and analysis. Many projects for the
rural sector selected by the Government need additional preparatory work to
make them acceptable. Equally critical has been the lack of project execu-
tion capability. Two IDA-financed technical assistance projects to the
1/   OMVS (Organisation pour la mise en valeur du Fleuve Senegal) is an
international organization founded to develop the Senegal River Basin
(including the construction of two dams).



-5-
Ministry of Planning and to SONADER, the agency in charge of rural develop-
ment, have begun to help the Government overcome some of these problems by
providing expertise needed for project preparation and execution.
17.       From 1979 to 1985, the overall growth of the economy could average
more than 4 percent per annum, with iron ore mining being the main motor of
expansion. During this period, development of the rural sector will remain
moderate because of the long gestation period of agricultural projects.
After 1985, the increase in real GDP would be around 3 percent per annum, and
should result in a slow improvement in the level of income of the Mauritanian
population. Achievement of such growth rates will be a difficult process,
requiring careful management of available resources, since a substantial
investment effort will be demanded from the country around the mid-1980s in
order to continue the Guelbs project (Phase 2). Savings outside the mining
sector will not be able to increase much without unacceptably reducing
private consumption; during the 1979-85 period, most of the capital needed to
achieve the Government's development program (about US$1.1 billion, including
the Guelbs project) would therefore have to come from abroad. Most of this is
already assured. Indeed, the Government has been very prudent to include in
the Rehabilitation Plan only projects that have already attracted the interest
of external donors. Prospects for mobilizing the remainder are relatively
good, provided the Government manages to improve the balance of payments and
budget situation.
18.       Considering the country-s general poverty, its strong reliance on
a single export product, and the long gestation period of many of its important
projects, Mauritania can only afford the borrowing it needs if the foreign
capital for projects other than the Guelbs is made available on very conces-
sionary terms. In addition, general budgetary constraints will severely limit
Government's ability to put up local funds for its investment program.
Foreign donors should be prepared, therefore, to finance a substantial propor-
tion of the local costs of the few high priority development projects that
will go ahead in the next few years; indeed, some donors have indicated their
willingness to cover 100 percent of the investment costs of such projects in
order to give Government maximum breathing space during this difficult period,
while permitting development activity to continue. In the medium-term at
least, financing of some recurrent costs for projects of a developmental
nature, which do not earn revenues immediately, will also be unavoidable.
19.       Assuming that the Government continues to receives debt relief as
discussed in para. 10, the debt service ratio (including the debt service
cushion representing one semi-annual debt service payment to all Guelbs'
lenders) would increase from about 17 percent in 1979 to a peak of about
20 percent in 1982/83, when a large monetary deposit of about US$24 million
contracted in 1973 by the Central Bank falls due and, at the same time, the
Guelbs' debts start to mature. Thereafter, the debt service ratio would
probably stabilize at around 15-16 percent, a maximum level that Mauritania
must try not to exceed, even in the long-term.



-6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITANIA
20.       The Bank Group has had 15 operations in Mauritania for a total of
US$209.5 million. Of these, two ate Bank loans for mining operations:
US$66 million for MIFERMA in 1960, and US$60 million to SNIM in 1979.
Twelve others are IDA credits totalling US$61.5 million. Of the IDA opera-
tions, four are in the transport sector, five are in the rural sector,
(including the important Gorgol irrigation project, approved by the Board in
September 1980), and the others for education, for technical assistance to
the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and for an urban and rural development
fund. In 1968, IFC made a loan to and an equity investment in SOMIMA, a
copper mining company, which totalled US$20 million; this IFC participation
and the accompanying loan were paid back when the Government nationalized
SOMIMA in 1974. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA
credits, and IFC investments as of June 30, 1981, and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects.
21.       Project implementation has often been retarded by the low effi-
ciency of the administration and the existence of cumbersome procedures.
Moreover, large distances, lack of basic infrastructure, the small number of
contractors operating in the country, and the need to recruit a hiah propor-
tion of expatriates for construction work and to staff projects have,
perhaps more than elsewhere in Africa, contributed to increased project
costs. These factors, aggravated by the exceptional situation prevailing in
Mauritania during the 1970s, high inflation, and unfavorable exchange rates,
have led to cost overruns on many projects. In addition, the country's
diLfficult financial situation has forced the Government to drastically
curtail expenditures, including the provision of local funds for its ongoing
development program. This called for a reduction in the scope of some of
these projects. For example, during execution of the Third Highway
Project (Credit No. 519 MAU), IDA and the Kuwait Fund, the co-financier,
agreed to scale down the project to enable 100 percent coverage of the
remaining foreign and local costs. For similar reasons the proposed project
would finance half the local currency costs (see para. 47).
22.       The Mauritanian authorities are acutely aware of the above-men-
tioned difficulties encountered in project execution, some of which, relatea
to geography or to the early stage of the country's development, will
persist for years to come. IDA's two technical assistance projects to
the Ministry of Economy and Finance (formerly Planning) and to SONADER (see
para. 16) are important elements of the Government's program to tackle the
problem of project execution. By strengthening Government's project prepara-
tion capacity and by providing for more systematic monitoring of project
execution, the first project is helping Government to invest in projects
better adapted to the country's conditions, to introduce administrative
reforms and to eliminate bottlenecks in project execution. The technical
assistance provided to SONADER (responsible for executing the Gorgol Irriga-
tion Project) has helped this organization become a dynamic rural develop-
ment agency. Similarly, the proposed Petroleum Exploration Promotion
Project would reinforce Government s planning and monitoring capacity in the
energy sector.



-7-
23.       In 1970-72, the Bank Group was the third largest donor (providing
about 18 percent of Mauritania-s external capital assistance) behind France
(21 percent) and the European Economic Community (19 percent). With the rapid
growth in external financial assistance extended to Mauritania, the Bank
Group's share decreased to about 6 percent in 1977. Bank Group strategy now
emphasizes: (a) dialogue with the Government on financial and economic matters
in cooperation with the IMF and other financial institutions; (b) technical
assistance to improve economic management and to increase absorptive capacity;
and (c) intervention on a few high-priority development projects to increase
production or to reduce the cost of carrying out economic activities in the
country, and enabling the mobilization and coordination of larger amounts of
external aid from traditional donors and Arab OPEC countries. Thus the Bank
Group is planning to prepare a follow-up technical assistance project to the
Ministry of Economy and Finance and to the Rural Sector including further
assistance to SONADER. The proposed Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project
would equip the Government to intervene in a potentially productive sector.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
24.       Mauritania's energy position is weak because of a narrow energy
resource base with heavy a dependence on imported petroleum products and
rapidly depleting forestry reserves for meeting energy demand, relatively high
consumption due to an energy-intensive industrial sector, a weak sector admin-
istration and an ineffective policy-making process. Because of the 1979-80
pe,troleum price increases the cost of petroleum product imports rose from
US$37 million in 1979 to US$56 million in 1980 (or about 25 percent of export
earnings projected for that year). If present levels of wood and charcoal
consumption continue, forestry reserves would soon be exhausted unless a major
reforestation effort is undertaken. These weaknesses are compounded by
inadequate energy administration, resulting in the lack of an energy develop-
ment strategy or coherent energy policies. An investment plan for the sector
has yet to be prepared and there are deficiencies in energy pricing.
Resource Potential, Production and Demand
25.       The domestic energy resource potential is limited.  Forests covering
1,500 km2 in the south (or 1.3 percent of the national territory) are the most
important known domestic energy source. They are being rapidly depleted
because of over exploitation and damaging drought conditions prevailing in the
sahelian zone. The Government has not yet mobilized the human and financial
resources needed to protect and develop its forestry assets. Other biomass
potential is small because of limited agricultural production. Hydropower
potential exists along the Senegal river, some 500 km away from the major load
center. Mauritania is considering participating in the Manantali dam scheme--
on the Mali-Mauritania frontier--but serious questions need to be resolved
about its timing and economic viability. Solar and wind energy are poten-
tially significant, but have not yet been used beyond demonstration schemes.
Minor hydrocarbon shows have been encountered on- and offshore but more
exploration is needed to assess the country's solar and wind potential.



-8-
26.       Overall energy consumption, estimated at 320,000 tons of oil equiv-
alent in 1979 (207 kg per capita) is high when compared to other West African
countries. This is because of the importance of energy intensive mining and
metallurgical activities in the economy. Imported petroleum products account
for 40 percent of overall energy consumption, wood and charcoal for 60 per-
cent. Electricity use, some 106 GWh in 1979 (62 kWh per capita) is equivalent
to about 16 percent of final energy use. Generation is based entirely on
small diesel units with an installed capacity totalling about 60 MW, of which
about 25 percent is captive. Electricity consumption has increased little
during the last three years since the network has not been expanded beyond
the country's seven major cities and townships.
27.       Petroleum development is an option to be pursued promptly in view of
the interest shown by foreign oil companies in investing risk capital in petro-
leum exploration. The geology of the offshore is promising and even a small
commercial discovery would meet the country's hydrocarbon needs and could
generate significant foreign exchange through exports.
Energy Sector Administration
28.       Responsibility for the administration of the sector lies largely
with the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME). Its Directorate of Mines
and Geology (DMG) is in charge of hydrocarbon exploration and supply. Its
Energy Unit (Cellule de l-Energie, CE) is in charge of renewable energy and
energy planning. The Ministry of Rural Development is in charge of forest
management. The Ministry of Environment and Hydrology supervises the State
Power and Water Utility Company, SONELEC. The Ministry of Economy and Finance
monitors the investment program in the sector and coordinates external finan-
cing for energy projects. Decisions on energy pricing including taxation are
taken by the Council of Ministers acting on recommendations of the MME and
the energy enterprises. The policymaking process has been hampered by a poor
data base, insufficient staffing of the agencies in charge and inadequate
communication among concerned Ministries.
Sectoral Objectives and Issues
29.       The Government has yet to elaborate a strategy for tackling the
sectoral priorities, i.e., the development of domestic energy resources
and the efficient use of energy throughout the economy. Sectoral issues
remain to be adequately analyzed and appropriate investment and pricing
policies remain to be developed.
30.       Investment.  Energy-related investment for the 1981-85 period is
expected to amount to US$75 million (in 1980 prices), mostly financed by
foreign aid. About 80 percent of the investments will be in the power sector,
where projects underway include the installation of 32 MW additional diesel
based generating capacity in Nouakchott (financed by French assistance) and at
the Guelbs iron ore mine (partially financed by the Bank--Loan MAIJ-1747).
These investments will, over the medium term, result in an increase of the
country's petroleum or petroleum product imports. A viable long term sectoral



-9-
investment strategy would have to consider alternatives to the traditional
energy sources (imported petroleum products and forests). A first effort
should include the following steps: (i) investigating the feasibility of
shifting to cheaper sources of commercial energy, e.g., fuel oil or coal
instead of diesel oil; (ii) identifying the elements of a reforestation
program and studying the potential for increasing the efficiency in transfor-
mation and use of wood and charcoal; (iii) inventorying renewable resources
such as agricultural residues, eolean and solar energy; and, (iv) defining
the scope for more efficient energy use by major industrial enterprises.
USAID is in the process of preparing a US$4 million project focusing largely
on solar and wind resources.
31.       Energy Pricing.  Petroleum product prices in recent years have
largely moved in line with international prices and are relatively close to
international levels. Rapid increases in CIF import prices in 1979/80 were
been passed on with little delay to consumers because ex-depot and retail
prices are usually revised every three months. Although during late 1980/81
because of the dollar appreciation, the rate of price increases slackened
somewhat in dollar terms. However, fuel prices still reflect opportunity
cost. Retail prices for regular gasoline and gas oil, in July 1981, were
US$2.63 and US$2.12 per gallon equivalent, respectively. There is, also, a
proliferation of preferential prices. Government entities and the power
companies are exempt from fuel taxes altogether and diesel for fishing vessels
costs less than two thirds of the full retail price. For social and industrial
policy reasons, kerosene and gas oil bear lower taxes than gasoline and their
retail price amounts to 70 percent and 83 percent, respectively, of the
gasoline retail price, even though they are in heavy demand and their CIF
import prices are higher than that of gasoline. Present electricity tariffs,
ranging from US$0.13 to US$0.20 equivalent per kWh, do not cover the operating
costs of the power utility which is operating small systems and is suffering
from weak management. It sustained a UM 71 million (US$1.5 million) loss in
1979 and anticipates losses of UM 115 million (US$2.5 million) for 1980.
The Government is aware that a rational pricing policy is needed to ensure
efficient energy use throughout the economy as well as the financial viability
of the state energy enterprises, and has requested that the proposed project
include a study of energy pricing. The Government would prepare a plan of
action satisfactory to the Association with regard to energy pricing following
a review of the study's recommendations (para. 45).
Petroleum Subsector
32.       Mauritania's petroleum requirements are met entirely through
imports of petroleum products. Domestic consumption was 137,000 tons of oil
equivalent in 1980 (84 kg per capita). Petroleum product demand increased
during the period 1971-77 by about 3.5 percent per annum. In 1978-79,
demand fell by nearly 15 percent per annum because of a combination of
factors, including an economic slowdown, the closure of a copper mine, the
completion of large investment projects, and Mauritania's withdrawal from
the Western Sahara war, but in 1980, demand resumed its growth at 5.6 percent
per annum. Gas oil by far is the most important product, accounting in 1979



- 10 -
for over 70 percent of petroleum product consumption. Among major end-users
of petroleum products transportation accounts for 48 percent; mining and
industry, 31 percent; power generation, 19 percent; and residential-commercial
use, 2 percent.
33.       About a third of petroleum products imports come from the Dakar
refinery. The rest is purchased on West European markets. Imports and
distribution of petroleum products is carried out by the government-owned
Societe Mauritanienne de Commercialisation des Produits Petroliers (SHCPP),
which accounts for 75 percent of imports, and two private companies, BP and
Mobil, which share equally the remaining market. SMCPP was created in
April 1981 to take over SNIM's activities in petroleum. Distribution by road
and rail is satisfactory; some shortages developed in 1979 when purchases on
the open market were difficult. Domestic distribution costs for more distant
destinations amount to the equivalent of up to 10 percent of CIF import costs,
and are reflected in differential retail prices.
34.       A one million tons per year, US$130 million refinery at Nouadhibou
(see also para. 8) has remained idle since its completion in 1978 because of
a technical and legal dispute with the contractor, difficulties in obtaining
the Algerian crude for which it was designed and consequent uncertainties
about its viability. A preliminary review of the refinery situation has been
financed under the IDA Technical Assistance Credit 665-MAU. The Government
has recently agreed to final acceptance of the refinery provided the contractor,
who also arranged construction credit, implements some additional investments
and reschedules the debt. Meanwhile an agreement is being negotiated with
Algeria for the supply of a suitable crude and financial support for the
start-up of the refinery. Although short-term financial support is thus being
provided, the longer-term economics of the refinery operation will depend on,
inter alia: (i) the relative costs of importing and refining crude vs. the
cost of importing petroleum products; (ii) future domestic demand; and,
(iii) the scope for re-exports of petroleum products to regional markets.
The Government would prepare, on the basis of an economic, financial and
managerial study included in the Project (para. 45 (b)), a detailed plan of
operation for the refinery, satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.06 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
35.       The 1979-80 international price increases of crude oil had a severe
impact on Mauritania's balance of payments. While over the 1975-78 period,
the cost of petroleum products imports averaged US$20-25 million (or about
13 percent of earnings from exports of goods and nonfactor services), in
1979 it jumped to US$37 million, or 20 percent of foreign exchange earnings,
despite a 13 percent drop in volume imported. In 1980, petroleum imports
are expected to approach US$56 million (or 25 percent of the expected export
earnings). On the assumption that energy-intensive projects (such as the
Guelbs project) are completed on schedule, and that other increases in energy
consujmption can be held at four percent per annum through appropriate pricing
and demand management policies and that no indigenous petroleum is being
produced by then, petroleum imports by 1985 would reach about US$150 million
at current prices, absorbing a substantially increased share of foreign
exchange earnings.



- 11 -
Institutional and Legal Framework for Petroleum Exploration
36.       Responsibility for hydrocarbon exploration rests with the DMG,
which also supervises all geological mining and quarrying activities in the
country. It has a staff of 12 of which two have experience in hydrocarbons.
With financing from the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) (para 40), MME
retained a consultant to review DMG's organization and prepare a staffing
plan. Following the consultant's recommendation MME established a Hydro-
carbon Service (HS) in charge of hydrocarbon exploration and supply in April
1981 and assigned to it a Mauritanian petroleum geologist with several years'
experience in the industry and two petroleum engineers recently graduated from
universities in the Soviet Union. HS would be further strengthened, along the
staffing plan prepared by the consultants, when Mauritanians in universities
abroad complete their studies.
37.       Past exploration contracts were granted under the concession law
of 1961 which provided for exploration periods of up to 15 years and nego-
tiable working commitments. In the case of production, royalties of up to
12.5 percent on oil and of up to 6.25 percent on gas, as well as income
taxes of 55 percent, were due. The Government concluded that this law was
out of line with both industry practice and the country's hydrocarbon
prospects and undertook a revision with the assistance of consultants also
financed under the PPF. The Association commented on the draft of the law,
whose enactment is expected shortly. The law is in the form of general
enabling legislation which authorizes the State to issue reconnaissance,
exploration, and exploitation permits and to enter into contracts with
national or foreign companies for the purpose of petroleum exploration and
development. Nonexclusive reconnaissance permits for an initial period of
three years allow their holders to carry out only surface exploration.
Exclusive exploration permits for an initial period of three years, with
scope for two subsequent extensions, allow their holders to carry out drilling.
There is an automatic right to a development permit for an initial term of 25
years in the event of commercial discovery. The law provides for application
of the general business income tax to petroleum income at a rate not less than
50 percent and authorizes introduction of an oil surtax and levying of signa-
ture and production bonuses. A contract between the State and each permit
holder would define in detail the rights and obligations of the parties.
Inter alia, the contract would provide for royalties, the nature and extent
of State participation, and undertakings to give priority to local consump-
tion requirements. This law should be attractive to oil companies while
safeguarding the country-s interest.
Status of Exploration
38.       Mauritania has two major sedimentary basins: the coastal basin
covering '200,000 km2 onshore and offshore, and the onshore Taoudeni Basin
which is shared with Mali and extends for about 600,000 km2 in Mauritania.
The offshore portion of the coastal basin has been explored since 1966. No
exploration of the onshore portion of the basin has yet taken place. A total
of 22,000 km of seismic lines have been shot and eight wells drilled, all with



- 12 -
oil and gas shows. The last well was completed in early 1980 in about 1,000 m
of water at a cost of over US$20 million, by the Seagap group 1/ which holds
a 24,300 km2 concession in the northern part of the offshore. The well
brought positive information and Seagap is now considering the drilling of a
further well. 2/ The Taoudeni Basin (onshore) is the largest basin in West
Africa. It consists primarily of old sediments, which although not as
prolific in hydrocarbons as younger sediments, are elsewhere producing
commercial quantities of oil and gas, particularly in Algeria, Australia,
China and the Soviet Union.  The Taoudeni Basin was explored between 1970 and
1975 and two wells were drilled, one with a gas show.
39.       Limited as they are, the past exploration efforts bear out the
potential of the Mauritanian offshore which can be rated as fair. The
potential of the Taoudeni basin, made up of older sediments, is significantly
less attractive, but warrants additional promotional efforts by the Govern-
ment. Mauritania's geology is discussed in more detail in Annex IV.
Government Approach to Hydrocarbon Exploration
40.       In the absence of other readily exploitable energy sources, the
Government attaches high priority to the search for hydrocarbons and wishes
to attract more foreign companies to undertake petroleum exploration. It is
following a systematic approach to promoting its petroleum potential. With
the funds provided under two advances from the PPF amounting to US$800,000,
it employed two consulting firms: (a) BEICIP of France to review existing
geological and geophysical data on Mauritania's basins to improve the data
base and help establish better the petroleum potential of Mauritania; and,
(b) J.C. Ferrand and Associates of Houston to: (i) review and propose
amendments to legal and contractual frameworks for petroleum exploration and
exploitation; (ii) assess DMG's staffing and technical assistance needs in
petroleum; and, (iii) provide assistance in promoting the basins and nego-
tiating exploration contracts with oil companies.
41.       BEICIP's work was completed in the spring of 1980.  It concluded
that the petroleum potential of the coastal basin was clearly superior to that
of the Mauritanian portion of the Taoudeni Basin. However, the compilation,
review, and reinterpretation of existing geological and geophysical data on
the coastal basin did not demonstrate dramatically new elements beyond those
known following the last round of exploration. New seismic acquisition (at a
cost of several million dollars) would be necessary to provide such new
information. The Government, at this stage, did not wish to underwrite the
cost of more seismic data acquisition and, in view of interest by companies,
1/   A consortium including Hispanoil (Spain), Agip (Italy), Phillips
(U.S.), and Exxon (U.S.).
2/   Even if this exploration effort results in a discovery, production
would be delayed until the technology for production in such water
depth is at hand. Present technology is readily available for pro-
duction in water depths only up to 500 m.



- 13 -
it decided to open nine blocks in the coastal basin (six offshore and three
onshore) for exploration by foreign companies on the basis of BEICIP's assess-
ment of the hydrocarbon potential. Several companies have already acquired
the BEICIP report on the coastal basin and three have made firm proposals for
four blocks both offshore and onshore. The Government's primary objective is
to sign exploration contracts with drilling commitments for as much of the
offshore as possible. If exploration of this area is successful, the companies
would intensify these exploration efforts without further incentive from the
Government. If not, the Government may have to consider further steps, such
as a seismic survey, to encourage further interest. Concerning the Taoudeni
Basin, the Government decided to promote the report on the basin to oil
companies jointly with that of the coastal basin and to negotiate exploration
contracts with interested companies. Consistent with its approach of not
undertaking work which could be carried out by companies, it decided against
participating directly at this stage in exploration in the Taoudeni.
IDA's Role
42.       The Government-s approach to hydrocarbon exploration has been
cautious. Its success will depend heavily on DMG's having access to, and
using, professional advice from qualified technicians in its negotiations
with oil companies. IDA's role would be to assist in: (a) providing DMG
with the expertise needed to negotiate equitable contracts with petroleum
companies, to monitor the activities of the operating companies and to
integrate the data they collect with its knowledge of the country's petro-
leum potential; and, (b) strengthening Government-s capability of preparing
energy related projects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
43.       The proposed project was identified during the visit of an IDA
mission to Mauritania in March 1979 and appraised in July 1980. Negotiations
were held in Nouakchatt, Mauritania on June 22 and 23, 1981, the Mauritanian
delegation was led by Director of DMG, Mr. Abdel Kader Ould Saleh. A credit
and project summary appears at the beginning of this Report and a supple-
mentary project data sheet is given in Annex III. No Staff Appraisal Report
has been prepared.
Project Objectives
44.       The project would support the Government's efforts to intensify
hydrocarbon exploration, to strengthen DMG/HS and to establish an efficient
project preparation capability for the energy sector. Its immediate objec-
tives would be:
(a) to strengthen the capacity of DMG/HS to evaluate and interpret
geological and geophysical data;



- 14 -
(b)  to enable the Government to negotiate equitable exploration
contracts with oil companies and to monitor their activities;
and
(c)  to provide the Government with a diagnosis of the sector through
defining the major issues, proposing development options and
preparing a work program to strengthen the project preparation
capability for the energy sector.
Project Description
45.       The project would comprise two components:
(a)  Exploration promotion component
(i) Exploration consultants (60 man months). DMG/HS would
retain the services of exploration consultants including
an explorationist as well as specialists on short-term
assignments to continue the work started under the two
advances from the PPF. The consultants would assist in:
a.   promoting the petroleum potential to oil companies;
b.   negotiating exploration contracts;
c.   monitoring the activities of operating companies; and,
d.   integrating the data submitted by operating companies into
DMG/HS's interpretation of the basin.
(ii) Training. Each consultant would be responsible for on-the-
job training of designated DMG/HS staff. Two geologists and
two geophysicists from DMG/HS would be granted fellowships to
take specialized courses abroad;
(iii)  HS facilities and equipment.  HS would be provided with a small
building comprising office space, a basic laboratory, a library,
storage space for well core samples, geological and geophysical
documents as well as office, laboratory and transportation
equipment; and,
(iv) Basin study (8 man months). Mauritania shares its sedi-
mentary basin with Senegal. To fully understand the geology
of the basin, the relevant geological and geophysical data
from the two countries need to be integrated in a basin study.
The proposed credit would finance Mauritania's share in such
a study. Senegal has requested World Bank Group assistance for
the compilation, review and interpretation of their geological
and geophysical data. The basin study would take place in
1983, when the basic work is expected to be completed in



- 15 -
Senegal. The consultants for the basin study would have to
be acceptable to the two Governments (para. 52). Each
Government would enter into a contract with the consultants
and supply them with the available data. After completion of
the study, each Government would receive a basin report and a
country report.
(b) Energy studies
(i) Consultant services would be provided for:
a.   an energy pricing study including a review of the
present pricing and taxation policies for petroleum
products, electricity, wood and charcoal (8 man-months);
b.   a systematic evaluation of existing information on the
sector and a diagnosis of the energy sector including
the preparation of a program to collect the data required
for sectoral management on a systematic basis; an assess-
ment of the existing work on developing domestic energy
supply and the definition of an investment strategy with
particular emphasis on wood and charcoal; a review of the
scope for energy conservation in the industrial sector (12
man-months);
C.   an evaluation of the MME and the Ministry of Rural
Development to prepare energy related projects, including
an assessment of the needs for technical assistance and
training of Mauritanian staff needed to build up an
adequate project preparation mechanism within two years
(5 man-months);
d.   a study of the economic, financial and managerial
aspects of the operation of the oil refinery at
Nouadhibou in order to provide the Government with the
information necessary to decide on optimal arrangements
for the operation of the refinery (10 man-months).
(ii) training abroad of one economist and two engineers.
Agreement was reached that: (a) before October 31, 1982 the Government
would consult the Association on the conclusions of each of the above studies,
on the measures to be taken in view of these conclusions, and submit to IDA
for approval plans of action to implement these measures; and, (b) thereafter,
would periodically review the implementation of such plans in consultation
with the'Association (Section 3.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 16 -
Status of Project Preparation
46.       The reports prepared by BEICIP and financed under the PPF on the
coastal basin and on the Taoudeni Basin were distributed to the international
oil industry during the spring/summer of 1980. The reports elicited a good
response. Six companies purchased the report on the coastal basin and
nine the one on the Taoudeni basin. The Government has started negotiations
with interested companies. BEICIP has been retained to assist the Government
in these negotiations.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
47.       The total cost of the proposed project, including refinancing of
advances under the PPF and net of duties and taxes is estimated at US$3.2
million, of which US$2.8 million or 88 percent is foreign exchange. The
cost estimates include physical contingencies of 10 percent on all project
components. Price contingencies of 10.5 percent for 1980, nine percent for
1981 and eight percent for 1982 and seven percent for 1983 have been applied
to all costs. Total contingencies amount to about US$655,000, or about 26
percent of base cost estimates. Estimated costs by project component are
given in the project summary. The cost per man month of consulting services
has been estimated at US$15,500, including travel, subsistence and overhead.
This amount is reasonable taking into account the high level of specialized
expertise required and the fees prevailing in the petroleum industry. The
proposed IDA credit of US$3.0 million would finance the foreign exchange
component, including the refinancing of two advances under the PPF (US$800,000
in total), and US$0.2 million or 50 percent of local costs. The remainder
of local costs would be financed by the Government. Government confirmed its
intention to exempt the project from taxes and duties.
Project Implementation
48.       Exploration Promotion.  DMG would implement this component and
expects to keep the services of BEICIP for the duration of the project. This
firm has performed satisfactorily for the work financed by advances from the
PPF and this arrangement would be satisfactory to IDA. Two engineers and one
accountant have been assigned to work in HS. The consultants would be
required to train on the job those specific counterpart staff who would
eventually replace them. Agreement was reached that: (i) HS would continue
to be appropriately staffed; and, (ii) before the end of each calendar year
the Government would report to the Association on the staffing of DMG/HS and
on progress in replacing foreign consultants with Mauritanian staff (Section
4.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
49.       The Government has already sold copies of the reports prepared by
BEICIP and plans to continue selling some of the data collected during project
implementation to interested oil companies. Agreement was reached that the
proceeds of any such sales (expected to amount to about US$300,000) be depos-
ited in a special account and used for financing further petroleum exploration
activities. (Section 4.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 17 -
50.       Energy Studies.  This component would be implemented by CE with
the support of the departments within the Ministry of Economy and Finance in
charge of the Technical Assistance Project (Credit 665-MAU). CE has appointed
an engineer to be in charge of the studies and an economist has been desig-
nated as his counterpart in the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The studies
are being carried out by consultants employed under the PPF.
51.       The DMG and CE would select trainees for overseas training by the
end of 1981 (Section 3.07 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The
project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1984.
Procurement and Disbursement
52.       The construction contract for DMG/HS facilities (estimated at about
US$350,000) would be awarded following international competitive bidding.
Contracts for equipment and furniture (estimated to cost US$275,000) would
be awarded following limited international tendering. All consultants would
be acceptable to the Borrower and the Association and would be employed on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.02 (a) and
(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The proposed IDA Credit would
be disbursed on the following basis:
(a) 85 percent of expenditures for civil works (US$0.35 million);
(b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 50 percent of local
expenditures for furniture and equipment (US$0.25 million);
(c) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 50 percent of local
expenditures for consultants' services ((i) for the basin study,
US$0.12 million, (ii) for other consultants' and advisors' ser-
vices, US$0.98 million);
(d) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for training (US$0.1 million);
and
(e) refunding of Project Preparation Facility Advances (US$0.8 million).
US$0.4 million would remain unallocated. Disbursements for the basin study
would be conditional upon: (a) the availability of geological and geophysi-
cal data for the portion of the coastal basin owned by the Republic of Senegal;
and (b) arrangements satisfactory to the Association having been made between
the Association and respectively, the governments of Mauritania and the
Republic of Senegal for implementing the basin study, including contractual
arrangements with consultants (Schedule 1 paragraph 4(b) to the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and para. 45 (a)(iv)). Disbursements would be fully
documented. The proceeds of the credit are expected to be fully disbursed
within three years of effectiveness, and all disbursements would be fully
documented.



- 18 -
Accounting and Reporting
53.       DMG/HS and CE would each keep separate project accounts.  Audit
would be by normal Government procedures, which are acceptable to the Associa-
tion. DMG and CE would submit quarterly and annual reports on implementation
of the project in a format acceptable to the Association. They would also
submit a project completion report no later than six months after the closing
date. (Sections 3.04 and 4.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Benefits and Risks
54.       The primary benefits of the exploration promotion component would be
to attract private foreign capital that would not otherwise be available to
the country, to undertake intensive hydrocarbon exploration. It is expected
that several companies would be active from 1982 on. Any ensuing hydrocarbon
discovery would have a significant-positive impact on the country s economy.
The short-term risk associated with this component is that the blocks offered
to the companies may not prove attractive enough. Given the companies
interest thus far this risk appears small. The longer-term risk is that, even
if exploration were undertaken, no exploitable reserves were to be found.
This risk is substantial, but is acceptable because of the large benefits that
would accrue if an exploitable find were made.
55.       Even if companies should fail to discover commercial hydrocarbon
deposits, there are benefits to the additional information to be acquired as a
result of this project. Modern seismic data will be acquired and additional
wells drilled on the coastal basin. DMG/HS, with the equipment and assistance
provided under the project, would safekeep the data collected by the companies,
have it readily available if needed for further exploration, and pursue their
own interpretation of the basin. With improved knowledge of the Basin, the
Government will be in a better position to negotiate exploration contracts
providing for working commitments, in line with Mauritania's geological
potential. If the results of the next round of exploration are more positive
than those acquired thus far, the companies would pursue and intensify their
exploration effort and the Government's responsibility would mainly be limited
to monitoring companies activity. If the results do not prove positive, the
Government might decide to undertake a new promotion effort to obtain renewed
company commitments. This effort would include the integration of the newly
collected data into a new interpretation of the basin and would likely have to
be complemented by acquisition of new seismic data.
56.       The energy studies would provide the Government with the basic
data necessary to assess development priorities and to prepare a comprehen-
sive energy planning effort. In view of the increasingly serious foreign
exchange drain from oil imports, the development of effective demand manage-
ment options and the promotion of renewable energy use as an alternative to
oil are important although unquantifiable benefits.



- 19 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of Mauritania and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Assoc'iation, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
58.       Special features of the draft Development Credit Agreement are
referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III. A disburse-
ment condition for the basin study would be that the necessary associated
studies had been carried out in Senegal and that arrangements satisfactory to
the Association made between the two Governments and the Association for the
execution of the studies (para. 52).
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
August 6, 1981



- 20-                                         Annex I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
MAURITANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MAURITANIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVFRAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                        - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)/'L
TOTAL           1030.7                                    MOST RECENT          LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     394.5                 1960  lb   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     90.0       190.0    320.0 bj              238.3                  794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        17.5       162.7    184.6                  70.5                  707.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)     969.5      1244.5   1588.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)    3.4         12.8      23.0                 17.5                   27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          2.9
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            9.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          0.9          1.2       1.5                27.7                    55.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         2.4         3.1       3.9                73.7                   130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            44.0        45.3      45.8                 44.8                   46.0
15-64 YRS.                           53.3        52.0      51.5                 52.4                    51.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.7         2.7       2.7                  2.9                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 2.2         2.5       2.7                  2.6                    2.8
URBAN                                16.2        15.8       9.2                  6.5                    5.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       50.6        49.9      50.2                 46.9                   46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       26.8        23.8      21.6                 19.3                    15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.4         3.4        3.4                  3.1                    3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OP MARRIED WOMEN)       ..         ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           107.0       102.0      78.0                 89.5                   89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     82.0         83.0     86.0                 90.2                    92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            71.0        73.0       72.0                52.7                   52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         45.0         48.0      44.0                 17.8                   16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       41.0         34.7     29.3                 27.3                   20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)      37.2        40.4      43.0                 45.8                   50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             186. 0/c      ..
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         17.0       ..                 23.9                    27.4
URBAN                                 ..        98.0        ..                 55.0                    74.3
RURAL                                 ..         10.0       ..                  18.5                   12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..        ..                 26.2
URBAN                                 ..          ..        ..                 63.5
RURAL                                 ..          ..        ..                 20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           40396.3    18301.5  15161.6                31911.8                13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       7324.0/d_e 4592.2   3426.9                 3674.9                 2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             5473.0/d.f  2963.1/f 2754.1                1238.8                 1028.4
URBAN                              549 Od      714. 77  1386.0                272.8                  423.0
RURAL                              7995.0/d,f  5508.277  3913.6              1745.2                 3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
URBAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
URBAN                                 ..          ..        ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..        ..
URBAN                                 ..          ..        ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..        ..



-21 -                                        AnnexI
Page 2
TABLE 3A
MAURITANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MAURITANIA                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV RAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                  8.0        14.0      26.0                  56.4                   73.7
MALE                 13.0        20.0      34.0                  70.7                   96.8
FEMALE                3.0         8.0      17.0                  50.1                   79.0
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  0.4         2.0       5.0                  10.0                   16.2
MALE                  1.0         3.0       9.0                  13.6                   25.3
FEMALE                0.04        0.4       1.0                   6.6                   14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  7.7         12.5         ..                  8.0                    5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           20.0        24.0      41.0                  46.5                   36.2
SECONDARY                         17.0        23.0         ..                 25.5                   23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        5.0        10.0       17.4                 25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.4         3.3         ..                  2.9                   32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        12.4        44.2       65.1                 32.8                   69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..          ..        ..                   1.9                    S.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..          ..         ..                  2.8                   20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..        0.3                  1.2                    0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      299.3       371.0      459.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   3.8         4.1       4.3                  34.1                   36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             91.2        88.0       85.4                 80.0                    56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 2.9         4.0       4.9                   8.6                   17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               30.9        29.8       28.9                 41.7                   37.2
MALE                                59.8        57.8      56.0                  54.3                   47.1
FEMALE                               2.3         2.4        2.4                 29.2                   27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY IIATIO             1.5          1.6       1.7                  1.2                    1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                 136.0                  381.2
RURAL                               ..           ..    110.0                  84.5                  156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    330.0                   99.1                  334.3
RURAL                               ..          ..      120.0                 61.2                  137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                  39.7
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                  68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979. Revised GNCP per capita 1979:  $300.
/c   1960-65;  /d 1962;  /e Government Personnel only;  /f Government hospital establishments only.
may, 1981



- 22-                                                                        Annex rT
Page 3
~EIfIiTlOtS OP _tOCAL. INtDICATORS
Notes   Although the data are dreo  from            out..generlly judged the mos  -ut-orosti- and rial,It ehuld also be noted that they nay etc be intar-
Ttet-coly cerbobecaus  of the lack of standardised definitions and coe.tept  usd by differentcountries In colis-tiug the date.  Ohs dten  are, noes-
thil-n, uceful ton describeodr  of magnitude, indtoste treede, and thara.e..e  ccrtat  nafo  difter-cr  bIIIe  counries
The ro....rtor groups are (11 nbc Iam   nuteY group of the sub)sot contr   o                counry. rou  nich ....b   bigt barl aerag  incon  than rho country grup
least hl: uf  betouneisaiageoupbaa deS-7fur thnindosne    ten   h   o sg   foioie   no   h  todMidadl r  dcpendh.on  bthence iihiln tof
dItt en  in cot uiform   causto i  aI Id he.o    fisdi  rltn          eaono   o  Indctrt  so the.                        f-heneondirrsg.oIsdrh only usfliocprn   he  tau
oft oeindloecIII _taimenon   tecury                 d reeetJ      rus
l.AO(i holdItbuosand s.km.)   t,            Inrnruha-nin I   o   pe_                                     hcoa-Poutitnvactynmeh0  rnuigpy
oorl  i-tuol - sluaclgb-ia-.rsuedtmosiyo  p~cnl                                          ouato   e   oso  Parson- PopuIsIor d-nide  by oamhmr. of. p.In.n
vuon   y ean   ovrinavc   mArdOahAls(977                           e    Id           viloi..   in pubiic  ndpd nn  general and d    specbyial-is   bepia  sadII.  phs-
1973, und0979 dat.                                                                babillntIunce-erilyfosirad            Idar  etobi  oe--ne pemaenly  tfe
"t  -Ps,   -k-  nd kitth                                         "P"~~~~~~~~b  an len  nI  phsca.laaiemrt   ovdogpirpll   neds
iftilo ChittPOIO  PuCodLl -  0000  oneumpidor  of noamrioisf srgy  lunl           nte  re  onInoud.trlhci                         h     byne   includ  helt  sad-t dne
end tincone  pe  GNPle P- ..ru pitgs.n  iydrt-, -toIoletr   osoerna  ti              ..c-  pt                    d
onoiy    ..cloro   of vos  eniaenynO           (ia   9019 970,9 an  178nine  nidoIfo.ynrch)ioirb offer  inpren                            -r adtof   andi. provde
PTPTLAO3dO icc 11002. Ofufltlifl                                       talc tenlub"  dePbi dofs pin ipl- general sod apecislsed  hospitals, Ind rura
MR11 1111-METION IER CAPITA - And                                      honitae lcalon  ura  bopitais- and .-odica  end ma nreity c tmnfr d
Octal oculoroc. Ol-fear ei.los)-te of, Julyt1 1960, 1970, and  1970                 Adetucconot on  -ortal ld tfoiabyI  phbe  ofI idbssnt   an or dischargest_t
fnbopin- dn.ivid'ed" by the number ofy tede.
lrhuv Popltocon (receon o  tonal)     Ostin o  urba 60t total po aIrn; 98   lhPtI
anor  o-norins; ibiD. 19ff. and 1978 date..Aeae cnn HuOUdSINGo  e   uuccd  -tnl ubn   ndeei
Pofulotion Projections                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A,e..St bos fol  noveints   ..  . of a  r ..y . hniduld ob  chars. living qudreem
Preuarin  in  ear 100 - lrvnt pop,ulattoc projectIons errb home  on 1980           adcor  anmas bAbo,,do  onldiena   c  a  onb  teuddi
nnni ppultin b  ag  en  nn ad teirmotalit  and fErtlt   an.                 teburcdfrcairc                    upss
oel.adfeeniri   I.f0  enpoos.,y tnh ilining at 77.5 year.  Thn paco-              Onollirga. orpcivoy   luelit8I,oelcecnprnoennucuse
Ibt-frfrolr   aealohv   he  level  ossiming decline J,,                            unocuiedpant
fehltp cdinohoInoc-r 1en1 end Post f_nily pla...log p_rf_ra_.                 ucn   nfetiir   ceeto   oiinl-  oa,ubn   e   ua
Iach c"uIely in then ass Ogtd nor nf those nina tonsblntiono  of  -trrlity            AcensorioaE  doeica    in  leniot  in- livIng qorer        ecetg
uuunovnocon.   mt ce  chneed ony. aftry fsIiIhyheets dtiiusty adustedirroineotca.o
thecelocmot lco  nfunt  nt  epodutin rte  obc  edgtntgict   Prmar nbcl -ocal.coe ad  enae-rns  ota, mleendfeal
norlace  norh  hel  of rhs projsosd             ti. I-- rhronrsto    nof gthe t p iuoec   pe-tan  scbd.l-agepntl             RIoa  ou-eolyincludscilrnagd
iv th  peur 2f00  anqh,    uno  dciec   eoilyaar lpee                                    ec o tooduhte  to   d_ffernoPents.fprmay.dc                  .tn   fee
sen  level.        .I.I                II,In    .  t%H
aloe bee Onto reoched.t                                                          lec.oodarn.ltid  h., ccon  t2-    =Moi. usa ned ft-emar-Omn  bn;sodt
ruolotat.                                                                               usuollYof1  nc17pcas  f  gti         crrepo roe       tus fnatgeas
Pee to. km. ooctculrurni isnd - iyerapubeddjas above tcr egricuirurnithladtoncgoded1
only.                                                                                    hucoThnnY-  enroltent (rorceotpnf necondary   i- ctyiden. isttiid ons
kcclono  Gr dnr   - tore  veeren)    P_te  q-I konol grneb rsten of... ut f mid-.rcnti an -ncodor  lel  edividdlb  unher                       d uf  Iacee  in.. the y
loOce  c  190b_16-0   n   907.as crsro  tota  adul,o. popularln  aged 19pasant                                                                              vr
Crcd lint  iod(t tcnn)                  eul iebrtsprnhcadnIodya
puplocun;196, 170  onf 1978dons.                                               cot inPoin
Iroda each lom lee thusnd) --hcldah   n   hnado   i-er                              Paana  ot(e  buadcplool-  tPoosrogr   caieremor
pupulaico;  960,  970,  nd 198 dan.-ptd"'"    I   V-t l1I                              "l car fcolin  lent 7 rIte . eIgh  pero;  occludes  nhutte,hss    n
coic   acs;uual  five'7Y-yeraet geenigi  IId -1970, sod 1977                      iclodonur -hcc  enrl, puI OE~lpertunodo,oplrvecolde   nt
Poco    avioOceve. ncl oousd)     nua   ule   feceice          cnsdeeionincutrlo  ir                .tper2      re  eirato    frai   e
racily Tcoociou-cocs (ve 1cnnt o  ma -e comet) 1-h fercoorug  oft- earnd            PoPunt-h_cabcthe   looton.-.d,,i.,t
loen  ffv   rdcioprCor   16-11)-ldno  potPcp1toaiunl                                         ovto1dail0n6neni toenem              ..np.p..    4rf -Iee    sprndllpb
lu cc calndar Trotlogin.  Coasodin i d 1970crpiar7 od8  (..susta                no -- be ddacly.' if 1t-ppar  at     i.db  .b looct fourhOtaniants
Ccia    fIuoIoif rIdblnn nnanoriet   eg   otfead                                         hyn   eul nrdce  t  aIabalerdoe    nte  ubrr
vurluculh; 160  1970a,prdued pric  onl0htm   1961-6t, 970, ond1908Ydar,                     nodIe..leoitt
PerD uIReI (. su hply uf  -oluri        1 drecc hotpuf r thlve nern) - ophdf
1n9y60iclo,o   oodc   fupicealboi   onr  par rapta                            zucpy r
r19r70ai  cane   Innnch97 . tnt sPy  e   old   nmlfn,tns                         rr   conaduey                 u              ..luin   Ooengivoes,  -toeit,  r.
cutohoclecuned  in food pro br  r to f ad-gutmeg  In d-oribjlon    Reuie          Onf holtc~ytcom   l    tohcucl ht o eutrin  arIo; cprh;16,17   n
o  -.Iono    d dihi -no  "c I p Iflrtn  ond aPlientog 1 Percen  forIII Ie e 00       hrcurr.pecn)- ao   oret                   dartg.orsr, h.nn.ng  Ind
,IcuehidOel   96-Y13.                       nin   .  90 1970, andd977dat1.f RhIo eni ..rnrn   o   nolIan   fre 1A6l  1970. ande i-yg  fnn.t d
oIl 00000 uf60 grao of  otal porein  tt dayaid 1  grantcf soial en      Parciirarib  care e.r.etept.otal, mte.dme tema--- Pat-cipstoc n
fard   r   oe   hnocno   1gaso   odpoenad2   ra  cf                                        pednce-ganofoof ror -l,             ... s ..femal   pultio  ofob ag rseciey
LcMa prci   sooeaoteib   ol,puoe   yyuri   b   ht                                    90   90   od 1971 dna    hseaelL'   atcptonrtsrfitn
en voita ccrnlcnurpl fro   anomal ndcl-Po in                   ffcdi-             age-non. strutur  ofI the...  populatio,  endlnogtie  r           TnARV  naI
oce group 1-0 yrorn. to children                                            ttIn.this ageYgroup;h.for coat.developing ofun-
cocen deco MRTond  fhmlf.tbs;190   91  n_97  ae                                          sce  IycnT
f F ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~eetta   frrvr  noe bt    0 th n in)-Rcie  by richest"
OInd.In-ofP    .pt.I-1                                                                      N `0      pret. irhev2  porcen, ponrent... .. 11  evnot  ad  pont6           ne
at brth  1967,e 1970-an  1978 d ihst         16o.I                                                    l                             Hd..ip.t   t--ni
lof our norraliry luot )onn thcuaod) - annual desthe of Interie undr one yemv    ron ton Ta ano 1000Pmi
--g~eye qth-ounIood  lic obdtb..pl.Estlbimat.Iy  -I.i.                                AORFREd hcunPcorlon   ee  0$pro   ia     ta   e   ua
boncSoedarerdgrett ofIk.N            ppliatce   -  actl, c. and- rural                 I -  Aeol  poer ty  one   leve  it ,    ihadnoelea   emeio       ii
Oubo Ic dnv     In frord,ahn  end  rural)       . it reasonableecctti    af              urttmlyseut  diet I  _.,     y lonsera  on-odrIteeesIsI o
05cc, ouply f~cludntreatad   arfacs maer, or unreated hu  uncontainatd     ffordaLe.n..pI                                           90    9;
caerouh  n  hatfo  protecte botebdelas,y spri-1ts, sad esitc        IInie en         7 fietd Iclarv.    oet.coeLvl(5 rtccn)-mhme   m
rccevvoenof  hei  repeciv  poulaine.    -ecu          bodry  o  nloOrlrltv    ootyion   ee   nnttido  averag  pObP  fa-pts
I'ncocd  anbeo d    c-tbin If  ssl  acced  of thatI house.  InIuaI            es           ee n-i It h adjutmet)  fobf-a.os   f  yn ivuba  cress.g d
I.a.ccoldacoi_ nul  imlythn  hs6ocolf  or70,eIner19cd rho  poithal                      taimhned PncIIuotlEco  el n Atelu lovb te fIncome Lnv0197 Irndc1978 -durba
do no:have c  npsoda dtcpopornienne prt of  hn da in   fetchingfed.   tb--r   anJeta   rrc           of poluion  iubc ei         releo  t   aslte pnec
rua  c.lme  cf 6psnplE    .1 (tonal .or pan   ad tuyl  senve 20 yo 1r ndenat
posol nay Icolude the colletine and dispisel, etch orBIthu  orfstmnor,                                cceR.ic anlysi  and Prnjeoro        cpemn
III. th.!'.Sf'1  th-"   t.1 p .Ind 23&I-.  f  -nI.,e.of t.I1, -1.  nd f.                 Octohperti 0980
cd hun nlti on   n   I nd oer-cir  b7 00c-hoteseyp          or ole iso of hI              1  0,17,Id17   .-    ll.    IIO.pIIpt.   ..   .lI
pItcd FciciceY a1d6imIlr5inn197t0ro..dI



ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA                             Annex T
(anounts in millions of US dollars)                         Page 4
Actual                       Procoted
1973-    1977-    1979-    1985-
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                         1973      1975      1977      1979      1985      1990      1977      1979      1985      1990       1973   ,  1979      1990
3-Year Average at 1977 Prices & Exckange Rates              Average Annual Crowth Rates             As Percent of COY
Gross Demostic Product                                   412.1    447.9    458.0    495.0    633.6    734.5             2.6       4.0       4.2       3.0       96.5    107.7    102.1
Gains from Terms of Trade (+1                              14.8      28.4       2.0    -35.5    -40.2    -15.3            .         -          .         .       3.5       7.7      -2.1
Gross Domestic Income                                    429.9    476.3    460.0    459.5    503.4    719.2             1.9       0.0       4.4        3.9    100.0      100.0    100.0
Imports (inl. NFS)                                       249.3    351.5    374.6    355.0    321.9    379.8            10.7      -2.6      -1.7        3.4      58.4      77.3      52.8
Experts (inl. NPS) (Import Capacity)                     225.2    220.7    182.9    168.6    314.8    351.4            -5.1      -4.0      11.0       2.2       52.8      36.7      48.9
Resource Gap                                              -24.1   -130.8   -191.7   -186.4         -7.1    -28.4           .         .         .         .      -5.6    -40.6       -3.9
Consumption Expenditures                                 353.7    452.8    474.8    470.9    500.0    622.4             7.7      -0.4       1.0       4.5       82.8    102.5       86.5
Investment Expenditures (incl. stocks)                    97.3    154.3    176.9    175.0    100.5    125.2            16.1      -0.6      -8.8       4.5      22.8       38.1      17.4
Domestic Savings                                           73.2      23.5    -14.8    -11.4        93.4      96.8          .     14.0          .       0.7      17.1      -2.5      13.5
National Savings                                           88.1      94.7      59.1      63.6      72.9      76.0      -9.5        3,7       2.3       0.8      20.6      13.8      10.6
MERCHANDISE TRADE                                          Annual Data at Current Prices And Exchange Rates            Average Annual Growth Rates               As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital Goods and Intermediate Goods (excl. fuels) 81.3    144.9    171.9    189.5    258.9    436.3                 21.0       5.0       5.4      11.0       58.2      58.9      52.3
Fuels and Related Materials                              10.0     26.7       30.1      37.6    148.0    238.4        32.0      11.8      25.0      10.0        7.2      11.7      28.6
Consumption Goods                                       48.4      70.2    122.0       94.7    113.1    160.1         26.0      -9.5       4.0       7.2       34.6      29.4      19.2
Total Merch. Iports (cif)                             139.7    241.8    324.0    321.8    520.0    834.8            23.5      -0.3       8.3      10.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Exports
Iron Ore                                               102.9    143.4    127.0    135.0    398.6    497.4             5.4       3.1      19.8       4.5       76.7      89.9      75.3
Copper Concentrate                                       12.8       4.5      10.7         -         --        -      -4.4         -          -         -       9.5         -         -
Fish Products                                           12.3      16.0       20.5      14.1      71.6    158.2       13.6    -17.4       31.0      17.1        9.2       9.4      23.9
Other Products                                            6.2       3.1       1.8       1.0       3.5       5.0    -26.5    -25.4        23.0        7.4       4.6       0.7       0.8
Total Merch, Exports (fob)                             134.2    167.0    160.0    150.1    473.7          660.6       4.5      -3.1      21.0       6.9    100.0    100.0    100.0
Merchandise Trade Indices                                              Average 1977   100                                Average Annual Growth Rates
Export Price Index                                       75.4    107.0    100.0        92.2    176.1    258.0         7.3      -3.9      11.4        7.9
Import Price Index                                      70.5      90.3    100.0    122.0    201.3    269.3            9..      10.5       8.7       6.0
Terms of Trade Index                                   107.0    118.5    100.0         75.6     87.5       95.8      -1.7    -13.0        2.5        1.8
Export Volume Inden                                    111.2      97.5    100.0    110.7    161.2    164.2           -3.3       5.2       6.5       0.3
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                                      Annual Data at 1977 Prices and Exchange Rates                 Average Annual Growth Rates             As Percent of Total
Agriculture (incl. Itvestock)                            90.2    116.0    103.3    109.9    137.0    166.7            3.4       3.2       3.7        4.0      25.0      26.3      28.2
Industry and Mining                                    141.1    111.5    108.9    115.4    173.2    197.9            -6.3       3.0       7.0       2.7       39.2      27.6      33.5
Service                                                129.1    151.6    186.7    193.2    219.3   . 226.6            9.7       1.7       2.2       0.7      35.8       46.1      38.3
Total                                                  360.4    379.1    398.9    418.5    529.5    591.2             2.6       2.4       4.0       3.1    100.0           100.0    100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                                             Annual Data in Current Prices and Ea.hange Rates              Average Annual Growth Rates             As Percent of GDP
(Central Government)
Budgetary Revenue                                        62.6      90.8    101.1    130.6    286.7    461.7          12.7      13.6      14.0       10.0      23.8      21.8      26.2
Budgetary Expenditure                                   66.1    106.2    197.3    248.8    297.1    446.7            32.0      12.3       3.0       8.5    -25.1    -41.5    -25.3
Budget Surplus or Deficit                               -3.5    -15.4    -96.2   -118.2    -10.4           15.0         .          .         .         .     -1.3    -19.7         0.9      am
Extra Budgetary Capital Expenditure                      -4.7    -56.4    -76.9    -58.2           ..        ..          .         .         .         .     -1.8       -9.7
Overall Deficit                                          -8.2    -71.8   -173.1   -176.4           ..        ..          .         .         .         .      -3.1    -29.4
Financing
Foreign Grants and Loans                                12.3       71.3    136.0    170.1          ..        ..         .         .          ,         .      4.7      28.4
Domestic Financing                                       -4.1      0.5       37.1       6.3        ..        ..         .         .          .         .     -1.6        1.0
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                               1973      1975      1977      1978      1979      1989      DETAIL ON PUBLIC                  1977-79
(As X of Total Budgetary Expenliture)                                   Actual             )  (Prelim.) (Budget)   SECTOR INVESTMENTS           $ million  X of Total
Wages and Salaries                                       33.8      34.7      35.6      33.7      34.1      45.2    Agriculture(incl. livesto.k)28.4            9.0
Materials and Supplies                  1,.2                       21.3      24.4      33.3      38.2      24.3    Mining                          64.4       20.3
Subsidies and Transfers                                  8.6      16.6        8.0      6.3        7.8       8.9   m{ nufacturing                   36.0       11.4
Public Debt Service                                       6.3       3.0       4.2      20.2      13.4      12.1    Infrastructure                 129,0      40.7
Other                                                   12.4        7.7       0.9       6.5       6.5       9.5    Public Utilities                21.3        6.7
Special Accounts                                        20.7      16.7      26.9          -         -         -    Other                           37.9       11.9
Total                                                100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    Total                                317.0    100.0
Not applicable
Not available



BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(amounts in millions of US dollars at current prices)
/   Average Annual
Actual                                   Estimsted       Projected '           Growth Rate
1973      1974      1975      1976       1977      1978      1979      1980       1905      1990      1973-79       1979-90
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                             144.8    203.6    185.6    201.9    178.8    165.7    196.9    2'8.0    518.6    725.5                    3.5           12.6
Imports (incl. NFS)                            154.9    246.6    307.0    401.6    386.5    362.2    392.7    487.0    514.7    795.0                    16.8            6.6
Resource Balance                                -10.1    -43.0   -121.4   -199.7   -207.7   -196.5   -195.8   -249.0                3.9    -69.5
Interest on Public Debt                          -2.0      -4.4      -5.5      -7.8      -14.6    -20.2    -20.8    -23.4    -34.3    -40.3              48.0            6.2
Other Factor Income                              -3.4      -6.0      -0.2      -0.5       -0.8       3.2       9.3       10.5      15.0      17.0           *            5.6
Workers'  Remittance                            -14.6    -16.2    -24.4    -28.4    -27.6    -29.4    -34.4    -37.0    -50.0    -65.0                   15.4            6.0
Current Transfers (net)                          31.4      72.7      76.6    139.7    119.6    148.2    126.1    120.0             55.0      80.0       26.0            -4.0
Current Account Balance                           1.3       3.1    -74.9    -96.7   -131.1    -94.7   -115.6   -178.9    -10.4    -77.8
.21        3/
Direct Investmnt                                 10.3      35.5    -12.8-   -49.7-         4.4      -6.9      64.5 4/   5.0         5.0      10.0       36.0
Official Capital Grants                           8.4       9.1      10.9       12.0      13.6      15.2      15.7       16.8      31.0      40.0        11.0            8.9
Public M and LT Loans 5/                         22.5      38.3      22.0    165.2        54.6      83.2      56.0    146.0        31.6      95.0        16.4            4.9
Disbursements                                (28.3)   (46.7)   (45.0)  (184.6)   (77.2)  (112.1)   (89.0)  (177.0)   (79.8)  (170.0)                 (21.0)          (6.0)
Repayments                                   (-5.8)    (-8.4)  (-23.0)  (-19.4)  (-22.6)  (-28.9)  (-33.0)  (-29.0)  (-48.2)  (-75.0)                 (33.5)          (7.7)
Other M and LT Loans (net)                      -15.7      -3.1      -2.2       -3.3      -1.9       0.7       1.4          -         -          -
Capital Transactions, n.e.i.                   -27.5    -38.5         4.3      -9.6        9.8       7.4      -3.4          -         -          -          ,
Change in Net Reserves (-   increase)             0.7    -44.4       52.7    -17.9        43.2      -4.9     -18.6        9.1    -57.2    -67.2
LOAN COMMITMENTS                                1975      1976      1977      1978       1979
Public M and LT Loans
IBRD                                              -         -         -         -      60.0
IDA                                            8.0        2.7       3.5         -       8.0                                                                  Actual
AFESD                                             -      45.9         -          -     38.9           DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE               1975      1976       1977      1978      1979
Other Multilateral                                -       2.4       3.2      18.2       14.2
Governments                                   63.9       98.8      36.7      76.6    256.3            Public Debt Outstanding
Suppliers                                      0.9        3.3      10.9       3.2          -          and Disbursed                       188.1    392.8    459.8    574.7    590.2
Financial Institutions                        13.4       27.9      20.7      19.2      19.1
Bonds                                             -         -         -         -          -             Interest on Public Debt            5.5       7.8       its.6     20.2      15.8 7/
Nationalization Loans                             -         -         -                    -             Repayments 6/                     23.0      29.4       22.6      28.9       18.0 7/
Total Public M and LT Loans                      86.2    181.0       75.0    117.2    396.4                Total Public Debt Service         28.5       37.2      37.2      49.1       33.8 7/
EXTERNAL DEBT                                  Actual Debt Outstanding on December 31, 1979              Burden on Export Earnings (%)
Disbursed Only  Percent  Total Debt  Percent
World Bank                                              -             -       60.0          5.4           Public Debt Service              15.4       18.4      20.8      29.6       17.2
IDA                                                 34.1            5.8       47.4          4.2
Other Multilateral                                  75.5           12.8      144,7         13.0       Averap. Terms of Public Debt
Governments                                        347.4           58.9      715.4         64.1         Int. as % Prior Year DO & D    3.3            4.2        2.3       2.1       2.7
Suppliers                                           64.9           11.0       67.7          6.1         Amort. as % Prior WarDO & D  13.6            15.6        5.8       6.3       5.7                t 
Financial Institutions                              58.3            9.9       70.5          6.3
Nationalization Loans                               10.0            1.7       10.0          0.9       IDA Debt Out. and Disbursed          14.1      18.6       74.3      29.9      34.1          :0
Bonds                                                  -              -           -           -       IDA as 7. Public Debt 0 and D         7.5      4.7         5.3       5.2        5.8
IDA as % Public Debt Service         0.4        0.4       0.9       1.2        0.8
Total                                                590.2          100.0   1_1156,         100.0
1/  The Lalance of payments projections ore based on the following assumption-:   (i) rescheduling or consolidation
of about a third of esisting external debt (US$215 million) as stated by the Government; (ii) normal weather
conditions, permitting a rapid improvement of agricultural production.
2/  Including a payment of about US$20 million for the acquisition of SOMIMA.
3/  Mainly payments to MIFERMA's shareholders.
4/ Mainly sew equity participations in SNIM.
5/ExScluding loans for balance of payments support.
6/ Including repayment us loans for balance of payments support but excluding the US540 million cash payment;- to MIFERMA
shareholders ic 1976, since this was made with the proceeds of a loan contracted by KFTCIC.
7/  Figures exclude US$20 million debt service paid with a grant from Sa-di Arabia.



-25 -                               ANNEX [1
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITANIA (as of June 30, 1981)
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
Loan or                                                Amount Less Cancellation 1/
Credit                                                         (USA million)
Number     Year   Borrower    Purpose                  Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
One Loan and Five Credits fully disbursed              66.0    17.4         -
459-MAU   1974  Mauritania   Education                         3.8        0.8
519-MAU   1975  Mauritania   Third Highway                     3.0        0.4
588-MAU   1975  Mauritania   Nouadhibou Port                   8.0        0.1
665-MAU   1976  Mauritania   Technical Assistance              2.7        0.7
694-MAU   1977  Mauritania   SONADER - Technical
Assistance                  3.5        0.0*
888-MAU   1979  Mauritania   Urban and Rural
Development                 8.0        5.0
1747-MAU  1980  SNIM          Guelbs Iron Ore          60.0               57.0
1068-MAU 2/1981 Mauritania   Gorgol Irrigation                 15.0 3/   15.0
TOTAL                                126.0    61.4       79.0
of which has been repaid            66.0     1.3
Total now outstanding                 60.0    60.1
Amount sold                     63.4
of which has been repaid    63.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA        60.0    60.1       79.0
Total undisbursed                     57.0    22.0       79.0
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/   Not yet effective.
3/   SDR equivalent 11.4 million.
*    US$7,720.69 undisbursed.



-26 -                               ANNEX II
Page 2
C. Projects in Execution I/
Credit No. 459 MAU        Education Project:  US$3.8 million; Credit Agreement:
February 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation was delayed in 1975/76 because of weak project
management and the need to review the cost and content of the project in face
of higher than anticipated price escalation. Since alternative financing was
not available, the scope of the project was reduced with approval of the Execu-
tive Directors. The project now provides for: (a) a vocational training center
in Nouakchott; (b) a mining training program in Nouadhibou; (c) training pro-
grams for farmers on irrigated perimeters; (d) an experimental study of intro-
ducing reading, writing and arithmetic in the Koranic school system; and (e)
technical assistance for the Directorate of Planning. Project management has
improved and project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Construc-
tion of the vocational training center has been completed. Equipment is being
delivered and installed; a local team of instructors is being trained; and
courses are expected to start in early 1981. The farmer training component
has been revised to integrate it with Government irrigation projects, and the
Koranic school experiment is nearly completed, but the results are inconclu-
sive and the Government intends to review some key issues that have been raised
by the experiment. The project is expected to be completed by the end of 1982.
Credit No. 519 MAU        Third Highway Project:  US$3.0 million; Credit Agree-
ment: December 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
The principal aim of the project is to consolidate and expand the
maintenance and betterment work efforts started under the First Road Main-
tenance Project (Second Highway Project, Cr. No. 159 MAU). The project has
consisted of: (a) technical assistance to relieve the shortage of qualified
highway personnel and to allow for continuation of the training program under-
taken under the previous Credit; (b) purchase of highway equipment for main-
tenance and betterment works; (c) a betterment program of about 365 km in-
cluding earthworks and construction of drainage structures; and (d) a feasibi-
lity study and detailed engineering of the Russo-Boghe road (200 km). The
project, which was estimated to cost US$13.7 million, has been financed jointly
by the Kuwait Fund (US$3.8 million) and in parallel by the Government of
Canada (US$4.2 million). Project execution was delayed considerably due to
war and successive droughts, and the resulting economic and financial and man-
power crises, in addition to lack of managerial and technical competence in
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and, particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -                             ANNEX II
Page 3
the Ministry of Equipment. Following agreement between the Association,
the Government and the Fund and the approval by Executive Directors on June
15, 1979, the Credit Agreement was modified essentially to reduce the
betterment program from 365 to 215 km, in order to stay within the financial
envelope provided. The reduced project, which is being financed 100 percent
by the Association and the Kuwait Fund, is now 95% completed, except drainage
structures which would be financed under the Fourth Highway Maintenance
project. The technical assistance to the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and
the feasibility study of the Rosso-Roghe Road, have been satisfactorily
completed.
Credit No. 665 MAU        Technical Assistance Project:  US$2.7 million;
Credit Agreement: December 9, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
The aim of the project is to strengthen the Ministry of Planning
to enable it to exercise its responsibility as a central agency to inte-
grate overall plan and policy formulation with the preparation and financing
of sectoral programs and their related projects. The project provides a
four-year program to finance: (a) five professionals for the Ministry of
Economy and Finance (formerly Planning) to elaborate long-term general and
sectoral strategies, set priorities, identify projects, undertake econo-
mic and financial analysis, and train Mauritanian counterparts to take over
their tasks; and (b) temporary consultants to deal with special subjects
when needed. All experts have been recruited. The team leader and the
industrial economist took up their assignment in January 1978 and the
other experts in May/June 1978 of the same year. The construction of the
offices for the experts has been completed. The team is assisting Govern-
ment in reviewing its investment program, sector policies, and project
priorities. A good working dialogue has been established between the
mission and Mauritanian officials. The Project is progressing satisfac-
torily.
Credit No. 888 MAU        Urban and Rural Development Project:  US$8.0
million; Credit Agreement: April 11, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project includes three separate components to provide finan-
cial and technical assistance to: (i) the industrial sector for develop-
ment of sma'l- and medium-scale enterprises promising substantially lower
investment costs per job than currently; (ii) the artisan sector for reha-
bilitating and expanding the production of knotted carpets by decentralizing
production and improving training of weavers; and (iii) the agricultural
sector for development of 30 new irrigated schemes under village coopera-
tives, including an adequate credit scheme. The project also provides
consulting services to study the feasibility of establishing a gypsum plaster
brick industry to replace expensive imported cement with locally-made bricks,
and of creating a new industrial zone in the capital city of Nouakchott.
The study of the plaster brick industry is completed, and that of the indus-
trial zone is underway. The strengthening of the Industrial Development



- 28 -                              A1INEX II
Page 4
Bank for which technical assistance provided is progressing satisfactorily,
and one project eligible for financing under the IDA line of credit has
been approved. The artisan component had until recently been encountering
considerable difficulty. Payment of fixed salaries to the weavers resulted
in substantial decrease in productivity, while several changes in the
management entailed delays in the recruitment of trainee weavers, construc-
tion of workshops, and processing of accounts. Significant steps have
however been taken to address these problems. The agency has been reorganized
and its activities are now restricted to carpet production and marketing only.
A new competent manager has been appointed, the production-based system of
remuneration has been reinstated, and efforts are underway to update the
accounts. The production, though still at a low level, is picking up. The
agency's financial position remains weak, but a plan for consolidation is
under consideration. The agricultural component is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1747 MAU        Guelbs Iron Ore Mining Project:  US$60 million
Loan Agreement: December 14, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
This project consists of opening new mines and constructing bene-
ficiation facilities in order to replace the declining production of the
iron ore deposits currently being exploited in Mauritania in the Zouerate
area which will be depleted by 1991. The project will be implemented in
two phases. The first phase will produce 6 million tpy starting in 1984,
followed 6 years later by the second phase which will bring into produc-
tion another 6 million tpy. The Bank Loan of US$60 million is to help fi-
nance the first phase, the total cost of which is US$500 million. The
main project components are the supplying of mining equipment and railroad
rolling stock, the construction of beneficiation plant and its ancillary
facilities, the extension of the port facilities, and the required engi-
neering, project management and training. The Bank Loan became effective
on December 31, 1980. Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily.
Credit No. 1068 MAU      Gorgol Irrigation Project: SDR 11.4 million (US$15
million); Credit Agreement: November 21, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
The project consists of: (1) construction of a regulating dam,
conveyance works, irrigation and drainage networks covering a gross area
of about 4,200 ha; (2) construction of roads, of buildings, and of social
infrastructure for 15 new villages; (3) purchase of agricultural transport
equipment and vehicles; (4) provision for initial operation and mainte-
nance of the above facilities and for the settlement of about 4,640 farm
families in the development area; and (5) provision, on credit, of services
and farm inputs to such families. The project is not yet effective.



-29 -                               ANNEX III
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:           Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:         15 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                   consultants
(c)  Identification mission:               March 1979
(d)  Appraisal mission:                     July 1980
(e)  Negotiations:                          June 1981
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:        November 1981
Section II:          Special IDA Implementation Action:  None
Section III:         Special Conditions:
(a) The Government would consult the Association on the
conclusions of each of the energy related studies
and submit to the Association for approval plans of
action to implement the studies' recommendations
and, thereafter, would periodically review the imple-
mentation of such plans in consultation with the
Association (para. 45);
(b) The Government would ensure that HS would continue
to be appropriately staffed and would regularly
report on staffing of DMG/HS and on progress in re-
placing foreign consultants with Mauritanian staff
(para. 48);
(c) The proceeds from sales of data collected under the
project to interested oil companies would be deposited
in a special account and used for financing further
petroleum exploration activities (para. 49);
(d) DMG and CE would select trainees for overseas training
by end-1981 (para. 51); and
(e) Disbursements for the basin study would be conditional
upon: (i) the availability of geological and geophysi-
cal data for the portion of the coastal basin owned
by the Republic of Senegal; and (ii) arrangements satis-
factory to the Association having been made between the
Association and respectively governments of Mauritania and
the Republic of Senegal for implementing the basin study,
including contractual arrangements with consultants
(para. 52).



- 30 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1
HYDROCARBON GEOLOGY AND STATUS OF EXPLORATION
Mauritania has two sedimentary basins: The coastal basin and the
onshore Taoudeni basin which extends into Mali.
I. The Coastal Basin
1.        The basin extends over an approximate area of 200,000 km2, both
onshore and offshore.
2.        Exploration started in 1966 in the western part of the offshore.
Four concessions were given between 1966 and 1977.
(a) Amoco--Planet Oil and Minerals Corp. (1966-1974), over
38,700 km2, both offshore on the shelf and onshore in the
northern part of the country.
(b) Exxon (1968-1973), 17,190 km2 on the shelf, mostly south
of the Amoco concession.
(c) Shell (1971-1975), 31,800 km2 in deep waters (between
200 m and 2,000 m of water).
-(d) Seagap Group--including Phillips, AGIP, Hispanoil and
Exxon (1977 still valid), 24,300 km2 in the northern part
of the basin on the shelf and in deep waters (greater than
2,000 m water).
3.        About 22,000 km of seismic have been shot.  Until 1974, seven wells
were drilled in three areas: one in the north, three approximately 120/130
km NNW of Nouakchott, and three approximately 75 to 90 km southwest of
Nouakchott. One of the these wells (Shell V1) was drilled in deep waters
(600 m of water). Five wells were drilled through Lower Cretaceous and one
reached Upper Jurassic (OCT IB). Two wells (MT03, MTO1) were drilled to the
base of the Tertiary. A general image of the sedimentary section is given in
fig. 1. One well (V1) produced a few cubic meters of oil (270 API) in Upper
Cretaceous. Gas and oil shows appeared in all wells in and underneath Lower
Tertiary. An eighth well was drilled by Seagap in early 1980 on a large
structure in deep waters (around 1,000 m of water) at a cost of around US$20 M.
The well was dry but brought enough positive information to suggest that the
drilling of another well in the same area is warranted.
4.        Generally the wells have been drilled on the largest structures.  In
a number of them, the absence of good reservoirs explains the absence of
production. Also, the presence of undercompacted shales in the Cretaceous,
in some areas, could indicate that no primary migration took place. Where
reservoirs are present, in the northern part of the basin, the poor results
can probably be explained by the absence of hydrocarbon migration or of good
timing for the structural buildup. Generally, the reservoirs are irregularly



- 31 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2
distributed.  The sand ratio seems to increase to the east (nearer to the
source of the material). An area of interbedding between the predominantly
sandy sections onshore and the predominantly shaly sections developing to
the west should be favorable to migration. Also some sandy trends (deltas
or sandbars) should develop in this type of sedimentation. The present
sei5mic data and well density do not permit locating such features. The
geochemical studies show good source rock possibilities in Lower Tertiary and
in several levels of the Cretaceous. The oil window, from the limited
information we have, seems to begin around 3,000 m of depth and lower.
5.        A number of undrilled structures are shown on the existing seismic
maps. On the shelf and on the slope, those structures are linked with ten-
sional faulting. In the south and beyond the slope, salt domes are prevent.
6.        The potential of the coastal basin is still largely unknown.  There
are enough positive indications to warrant further exploratton efforts, using
modern seismic and geological methods to find those area Vwth a favorable
association between source rocks, reservoirs and traps.
II. The Taoudeni Basin (see Map IBRD 15308)
7.        The Taoudeni Basin covers about 1,500,000 km2 (it is the largest
basin in West Africa) and is shared equally between Mauritania and Mali. It
is an intracratonic platform basin, the present limits of which do not
correspond to the deposition limit of sediments which extend to the north
into the Algerian Tindouf Basin. The sediments present in the Taoudeni
Basin are essentially composed of Infracambrian and Paleozoic deposits with
four sedimentation cycles separated by slight unconformities.
8.        The Triasoic period, corresponding to the opening of the Atlantic
Ocean, is characterized in the Taoudeni Basin by intrusions of dolerite dykes
and sills and the formation of grabens. The dolerite intrusions are very
extensive, regionally, and happen in many formations, mostly shales, from
Precambrian to Paleozoic. They did not influence other than locally the
generation or migration of hydrocarbons, which happened earlier. The forma-
tion of graben, which can include brackish or marine deposition during Trias
and Cretaceous, is well known in the Gao and Nara troughs in Mali.
Past Exploration
9.        Societe Africaine des Petroles carried out from 1957 to 1962 geolo-
gical surveys on the borders of the basin. In 1963, a general aeromagnetic
survey with Soviet technical assistance covered the basin and all other
sedimentary basins of Mali. Gravimetric surveys were also carried out. In
1970 active exploration was started in two concessions acquired by Texaco
(later in association with Esso) in Mauritania and Mali and AGIP in Mauritania
(see Map, IBRD 15309). A total of 11,600 km of seismic was surveyed by
Texaco and 1,668 km by AGIP. Two wells were drilled in Mauritania: Abolag
1 by Texaco and Ouasa 1 by AGIP. Both wells drilled a rather thin Paleozoic
sequence (around 1,500/1,700 m), too shallow to show any prospects, and a



- 32 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3
thick sedimentary section of Infracambrian (upper and middle) down to 3,200/
3,500 m. The depth of the basement underneath those formations in the area
of the wells is not known but can be evaluated at least around 4,000 m. Both
Texaco and AGIP relinquished their concession in 1975.
Prospects
10.       BEICIP has reinterpreted and integrated all the geophysical data,
well data and an important amount of geological work carried out on the bor-
ders of the basin during the recent years. In Mauritania, the only possible
prospect is the Infracambrian and possibly the Lower Paleozoic in the
Makteir trough in the northwestern part of the basin.
11.     These very old formations have generally been considered poor
prospects:
(a) In many basins they are very deep and at least partially
metamorphosed.
(b) Where kept as a sediment, the relative poor content in organic
matter was considered not favorable to petroleum generation.
(c) For the above reasons, few wells have been drilled through
this formation and the statistical knowledge is poor compared to
more recent formations.
However, formation of the same age is known to produce oil and gas/condensate
in the area of Irkutsk (USSR), gas in the Amadus basin (Australia) and oil
or gas in the Setchuvan basin (China). The well Abolag 1 showed a small
gas production around 2,700 m. Some bitumen shows have been noted in sur-
face samples. The geochemical analysis carried out on samples from the wells
show a good petroleum potential in some levels of Infracambrian; maturation
of this organic matter is proven at relatively shallow depths and should
improve with increased burial of sediments. 1/
1/   A review of the Precambrian petroleum potential carried out in 1978
by Grover Murray, Michael J. Kaczor and Richard E. McArthur (Texas
Tech. Univ.) concludes:
"Numerous publications in the last decade have documented
an even greater and wider existence of varied forms of life
in strata considered Precambrian ...... As explorationists,
we should deliberately plan and program wells to penetrate
rocks below the Cambrian whenever and wherever it appears
possible that they be unmetamorphosed."



- 33 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4
12.     Exploration should be concentrated in those areas where burial of
sediments increase chances for hydrocarbon generation and where structural
possibilities exist. The Makteir trough and structures already partly known
(El Mrayer and vicinity) respond to those criteria and would be the targets
for future exploration.



- 34 -
ATTAC}I'IENT 1
ANNEX IV
Page 1
Glossary of Geologic Terms
Anticline:                A term indicating a discrete positive (hi6h) closure,
usually an upward arching of sediments caused by
compressional forces within the earth; often used to
denote any type of positive closure which may be the
result of drape over buried topography or residual
structure bounded by areas of negative closure
(syncline); with regional or nondiscrete positive
closures, the term arch is more common.
Diapir, diapiric:         A flowage of plastic sedimentary rocks, usually salt
or undercompacted shales (those which retain a high
fraction of formation water relative to depth of
burial), caused by an inversion in the specific
gravity of rocks with depth (light below heavy);
diapiric relates to structuring developed when
diapirs are present or to the cause of the aiapir,
i.e., diapiric shale.
Dike:                     An intrusive body of crystalline rock whose geometry
is tabular with a vertical or near vertical attitude,
i.e., if the preexisting rock is sedimentary, cuts
across bedding planes.
Facies:                   Descriptive of sedimentary rocks of a common compo-
sition deposited in a particular manner; may apply to
both general and/or specific conditions of deposition.
Graben (trough):          A fault-bounded structurally low block in which move-
ment involved crystalline basement rock as well as
overlying sedimentary rocks; grabens are normally
associated with and adjacent to horsts.
Horst (horst block):      a fault-bounded structurally high block in which
movement involved crystalline basement rock as well
as overlying sedimentary rocks.
Intrusive:                A crystalline igneous rock injected in a fluid
phase into preexisting rocks, either igneous,
metamorphic or sedimentary.
Karroo:                   A thick, generally nonmarine sedimentary rock sequence
found in the sub-Sahara of Africa ranging in age from
the Paleozoic Carboniferous through Mesozoic Triassic
and into the Mesozoic Lower Jurassic; precise age
determination often difficult and thus lumped into
general term "Karroo."



- 35 -
ATTACHMENT 1
ANNEX IV
Page 2
Tertiary:                 The system of sedimentary rocks occupying the
more recent ages of the geologic time scale
(Cenozoic)                comprising the Paleocene, Eocene, Oligocene,
Miocene, and Pliocene. The Cenozoic system is
(-65 to -2                typified by the development of Mammals and Primates
million years)            and a flora which predicts the present one.  It
underlies the Quartenary (recent).
Mesozoic:                 The system of sedimentary rocks occupying the middle
ages of the geologic time scale, comprising the
Triassic, Jurassic and Cretaceous Periods; the
Mesozoic system is typified by a reptilian fauna
and a coniferous flora which overlies the older
Paleozoic system and underlies the Cenozoic system
(Tertiary, Quartenary and Recent).
Paleozoic:                The system of sedimentary rocks occupying the early
ages of the geologic time scale comprising the
(-600 to -230             Cambrian, Ordovician, Devonian, Silurian, Carboni-
million years)            ferous and Permian Periods; the Paleozoic system is
typified by an invertebrate fauna but witnessed the
evolution of fish and, near the shore, primitive
reptiles as well and a flora evolving through algae,
ferns and primative conifers; the pre-Cambrian system,
consisting principally of nonsedimentary rocks and
occasionally sedimentary rocks deficient in fossils,
underlies the Paleozoic.
Play:                     A grouping of petroleum prospects in which the type
of trap as well as age and composition of reservoir
and source rocks (independently) are believed to be
common; synonymous with "trend" if and when prospects
become productive fields.
Progradation:             The deposition of sediments in a seaward direction
and outbuilding of shoreline, ultimately resulting
in nonmarine sediments overlying marine, due to
regression (lowering sea level due to uplift or
worldwide fall in sea level), rapid influx of
sediments into a static sea level, or at a rate
exceeding a rise in sea level.
Reef:                     A build-up of carbonate rocks (limestone or dolomite)
consisting of a particular assemblage of organic
skeletal material formed in warm, nonturbid seas;
following burial forms a unique type of reservoir
and trap.



- 36 -
ATTACHMENT 1
ANNEX IV
Page 3
Reservoir rock:           Those rock formations which have retained after
burial sufficient porosity and permeability (pore
space connections) to contain fluids; either oil,
gas or water.
Structure:                Used to indicate a geometric configuration in the
sedimentary beds which can lead to trapping of the
oil (the anticline is the most usual structure).
Rift:                      Similar to graben except used on a more regional
scale such as rift system when associated grabens
and minor intervening horsts are included in the
overall rift (system).
Show:                     A positive indication of the presence of oil and/or
gas either in the subsurface (wells) or at the sur-
face from seeps, notes from surface samples, drill
cuttings, subsurface cores or fluid recovery; shows
may vary widely both quantitatively and qualitatively.
Sill:                     An intrusive body of crystalline rock whose geometry
is tabular with a horizontal or near horizontal
attitude, i.e., if preexisting rock is sedimentary,
is parallel to bedding planes.
Source rock:              Those sedimentary rock formations which are either
known or thought to have retained the organic debris
which under conditions of burial (heat, pressure and
time) are transformed into either oil or gas; usually
shale (compacted clay) or fine-grained carbonate
(limestone).
Transgression:            The invasion of the sea (introducing a marine
environment of deposition) over an existing sub-
aereal surface caused either by subsidence or a
worldwide rise in sea level; sediments deposited
during transgression are called a transgressive
facies and tend to be widespread in extent.
Regression:               Withdrawal of the sea (introducing a brackish to
continental environment).
Trap:                     A barrier to the migration of fluids through a
reservoir rock; may result from structural movement
or lateral change in reservoir characteristics.



- 37 -
ATTACHMENT 1
ANNEX IV
Page 4
Uniformity:                    A surface of divergence in the attitude between
an underlying and overlying sequence of sedimentary
rocks caused by structural movement and/or a change
in the character of the depositional environment of
the overlying sediments or involving a hiatus in
deposition and a period of erosion of the underlying
sediment.






Figure 1: STRATIGRAPHIC CORRELATIONS
A44
V I     OCT-2 
!__ _ _ _ _ _ _|__ Skm    C IB60           m
.24__    .275
o~~~~~~~~~~~ ._. -g# 
/       A 732
787
- 920 
~~~~~   / ~ ~ ~ ~ /V
--_-__- --      p !l,'/   '. .
-_ i ~~~~~~/ 11 .             I\ i* _
'57~ ~ ~~~/0
41444
209   t t           A\  -   -       -_
.~~~~~~~~a5                    - . r-\:Sr__






IBRD 15309
(Former)
SPANISH SAHARA
7~~~~~~  
A    T  I                     7 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA                                                ~p rTY                                                                    
*,4n-Rev/^L^coFMAuRr4Nla       0                       g                         R ~~~~~I IT'-A    N   I A  
MAURITANIA COASTAL BASIN                                                                                                              < 
JLL~ Quaternary                                                                             /    /
M icene-Plioce,s                                                                                                                                       7('\  
M urwitaonides
rR,lPbeozoic Cover on Platform
Mretimorprhios or Reguisbat Arc 
Off shore Basin
Onshore Bosin                                                                    /      '    ..
*   Strvctures Asihle on Pesenrt Seismic Survey         -                                                                       Vt -V,
Dscapir                                                                                                                                                           "
-~wells
[T~  Proposed Blocks for Concessione8y,,.
..r- 2- OverS-hrusts
Depth Contours in Meters                                        I        lsr.,ese
Rives,
In - ternatiohal BourKdories                           //' 
Note9
The coasthin servs as 6oundary for 
uocks 2-3, 5-6 and 8                                (9i,                                             inguere
'   ,, e fi (y;.,2@a,rYwrt                           5~ E  N\1  E  GJ  A  Ls\ 
D  ; 9 2 2 z   v l D                                             t                                    -D,jourbe
Iv'  "                                     ;                                                                                   0., t~ \A   F R I C  A
BAJL    .     .. .*Mn7
iSLOf^e7eQS 100        200                                                                            S  A  U
ler-twy>¢*tdl ,,.   ar  ;   ,   ,       <         ,          5  ~~~~~~~~~~~~ I  I S S  A  U        74.                            NOVEMEER 19EfNOEMBE f198






IBRD 15308
/  .&r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>  I                                         o                                  0                 O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C-TOBER  000O
IoO  2~O  390      400                                                                                                 WorosVEST  AFRICA
$0  R                2oot                                         INOU  BSI                                                                                                  THE TAOUDENI BASIN
roo,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Concessions,
ftlae-o  re,~ ,~,                                                                                                                                                                                    TFXACO
BGGANBc~~~~~     ~     ~        AGIP
Omr0sro~~~~~~~~~~~~ 50o~~~~~~~r on 00                                                                                                                        j SNEA (of, I oei,d)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7V1 S  N7  r  NA st11-1d
Geology:
20    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k~~~~~~~~~ALOER/A   A                                                                              Quorternory
Tert-ay
Continental Inte-Wlore
/                                                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C-mbrifen
*oo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ne Ifoanra
~~  r~'U-~~'r~~            Lower Inf-aornbr-a
00 PR 51                                                                                                        A0      ~    S~od
EPE5 N    boIag 1I~                                                                                       O                  FoDldse
cl                                                             ~         ~       ~~~~B  A    \  I    NDye
I   ~ ~ ~ ~ C0                                                            A~~~~~~~A            0ltR0in,BOt0R~~~~~~~~~~~~~ C        rooo~~~00-~~  Contour n mreters
0N...rhoe                                                                                                                                                                             Internatioal bo-do r.so
-----~-----
O                                                                      AOUKER                 ~
AG     oItoIPeb~yo                                                                     -                           
10*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V
m~~~~~~~~~VTMDA
s t, Gk L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Daoko



