Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repwt No. 5141-MOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
October 29, 1984
Education and Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This docmat hu a resticted dis ib   d may be used by recii. way m te perform: of
tbdr oEibat dubeL Us contef  may no offiwwe be dodosd wndwM World Bankanthorizafion.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Principal Abbreviations and Acronymns Used
EDI     -    Economic Development Institute
ITA     -    Institute of Applied Technology
(Institut de Technologie Appliqu6e)
MOF     -    Ministry of Finance
MOL     -    Ministry of Labor
MOP     -    Ministry of Planning
MPW     -    Ministry of Public Works, Vocational Training
and Staff Training
Office  -    Office of Vocational Training and Employment Promotion
(Office de la Formation Professionnelle et
de la Promotion du Travail)
TA      -    Technical Assistance
UNDP    -    United Nations Development Program
VTC     -    Vocational Training Center
(Centre de Qualification Professionnelle)
Currency Equivalents
USil.00 = Moroccan Dirhams (DR) 9.06
DH 1.00 = US$o.llo
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Basic Data
Country Data (1982)
Per-Capita GNP:               US$820
Total population:             21.6 million
Population growth rate:       3.0%
Education (1982/83)
Female
Enrollments
Enrollment as %   as % of Total
Level                            Enrollment 1/  of Age Group      Enrollment
('000)
Primary (grades 1-5)                 2,378            78%              38%
Lower secondary (grades 6-9)           625            30%              29%
Upper secondary (grades 10-12)         277            20%               37%
University                              83             5%              N/A
Public Expenditure on Education (1983)
Central government education
budget as a X of total
government budget:             19.8%
Central government education
budget as a % of GDP:           6.7%
Central government capital
budget for education
as a % of government
capital budget:                17.8%
Central government recurrent
budget for education
as a % of government
recurrent budget:              23.4%
Office recurrent budget for
vocational training as a
% of government recurrent
budget                          0.3%
.' Gross enrollments, including over-age students and repeaters.
his document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of|
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
GLOSSARY
BASIC DATA
I.   MANPOWER DEMAND AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING ................   1
Manpower Demand ........................................  1
Vocational Training Issues             .       .         4
Government Education/Training Priorities
and Bank Lending Strategy .............................  7
II.   THE PROJECT   .     .................................... 10
Objectives and Scope ...................................  10
Project Description .   ................................... 11
III.    PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING,
IKPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS....   18
Project Costs .......................................... 18
Recurrent Expenditures .................................  22
Project Implementation ................................. 23
Disbursements ........................................   27
IV.    BENEFITS AND RISKS ............................... .. .... 28
Benefits ....................................... .      28
Risks .......................................           28
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .................. 30
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Morocco in March 1984. The mission comprised Messrs. Michael Mertaugh
(economist, mission leader), Stavros Syrimis (vocational educator,
consultant), Jacques Dube (technical educator, consultant), and Ead Dib
(architect, consultant).



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANMEXES
l -  Office Training Facilities, Enrollments, and Outputs
2 - Project Vocational Training Center (VTC)
Specializations (22 VTCs)
3 - Office Administrative Structure
4 - Summary Account by Project Component
5 - Estimated Unit Area and Unit Capital Costs
of Project Institutions (1984 Prices)
6 - Implementation Schedule
7 - Estimated Schedule of Expenditures and Disbursements
8 - Estimated Benefit/Cost Ratio for Proposed VTC Component
According to Alternative Parameters for Discount Rate
and Skilled Wage Differential
9 - Comparative Education Indicators
10 - Selected Documents
MAP



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. MANPOWER DEMAND AND VOCATIONAL TRAINING
Manpower Demand
1.01     Morocco's labor force is growing at a rate faster than at any time in
Morocco's history. Total labor force increased from 3.8 million in 1971 to
6.0 million in 1982, an annual rate of growth of 4.0%. This increase, which
is considerably above the 3.0% annual rate of population growth, reflects both
the return of Moroccan migrant labor from Europe and higher labor-force parti-
cipation, particularly for females. Rapid labor-force growth is certain to
continue  for  the  foreseeable  future.   The  Government  is  appropriately
concerned with the need to provide relevant training opportunities to ensure
that new entrants to the labor force can make a productive contribution to
Morocco's development.
1.02     Data from the 1982 census record the continuing evolution in labor-
force structure toward activities requiring higher skill levels. The share of
agricultural employment declined markedly-from 53.7Z in .1971 to 39.2% in
1982.  Employment in the industry and construction sectors increased most
rapidly-at 7.3% and 7.9% per year, respectively.  Employment in those sectors
increased, respectively, from 403,000 to 931,000 and from 184,000 to 437,000.
Civil-service employment almost doubled between 1971 and 1982, increasing from
281,000 to over 530,000.   With the exception of civil-service employment,
which is nearing saturation, these observed trends in labor-force growth in
relatively skill-intensive sectors are likely to continue in the medium to
long-term.  This is particularly true of the industrial sector, where short-
ages of skilled manpower have constrained output growth in the past and where
future output growth will create significant additional demands for ski'lled
manpower. The 1981-85 Development Plan clearly states the priority which the
Government attaches to industrial growth, a priority which is likely to be
maintained during the next development plan. Among the incentives for such
growth are the reform measures being adopted under the recently approved
Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan, whose principal aim is to intro-
duce structural changes in the system of incentives in order to eliminate the
bias against export production, to lower manufacturing costs, and hence to
restore dynamism to the process of industrial growth.   One of the likely
consequences of these measures is faster growth of industrial employment.
Prospects for growth of industrial employment would be further improved if
small business managers had better access to management information that would
assist them to expand their businesses efficiently. The Office of Industrial
Development (l'Office pour le D6veloppement Industriel) currently provides



-2-
such assistance to industrial enterprises, but there are very substantial
unmet needs for training small business managers in areas such as inventory
control, plant layout, personnel management, financial planning, and equipment
selection.
1.03     The country's capacity for vocational training is seriously short of
prospective needs. As shown in Table 1.1, the demand for skilled manpower is
projected to grow by over 100,000 per year between 1985 and 1995, with the
largest share of the increase occurring in the industrial sector:
Table 1.1; PROJECTED SUPPLY AND DEMAND
OF SKILLED MANPOWER BY SECTOR
(1985-95)
Projected       Projected
Projected Average    Estimated Annual       Annual Output      Annual
Annual Demand for   Output of Existing      from Proposed     Deficit of
Skilled Manpower  Skill Training Programs    Vocational        Skilled
Sector                (1985-95) 1/     All Sources    Office  Training Project  Workers 2/
Agriculture              4,710                250         -              -         4,460
Industry, Mining,
Utilities              40,490              5,360      5,140          1,540        33,590
Construction            23,080.             9,000      8,000            594        13,486
Services                37,580              9,500        500             66       28,014
Total              105,860            24,110      13,640          2,200       79,550
1/ Staff estimate (project working paper C.3).
2/ Column 1 - Column 2 - Column 4.
The most conspicuous shortage of skilled marLpower is projected to occur in the
industry/mining/utilities sector, where projected annual demand exceeds supply
by over 33,000. As the first stage in a major planned expansion of vocational
training, the proposed project would make an important start in meeting the
projected demand  for skilled manpower.   Beginning  in 1989,  when the new
training centers would produce their first graduates, the proposed project



-3-
would provide 2,200 skilled workers per year, 70% of whom would be trained in
one of 14 industrial specializations, 26% of whom would be trained in one of
four construction specializations, and the balance (4%) trained in commercial
skills.
1.04     Vocational Training Structure.  In the mid 1960's, the Ministry of
Education's (MOE's) colleges of vocational training, until then the major -
source for skilled worker training, were dissolved and each operating ministry
was charged with the task of training skilled labor for its own needs. Apart
from a vestigial program in lower secondary vocational education, the MOE's
involvement in vocational and technical education is now concentrated entirely
upon a technical baccalaureat program at the upper secondary level, and tech-
nical teacher training and engineering studies at the post-secondary level.
Most operating ministries also provide technician training for their own
needs. A number of these also provide vocational training for their skilled-
worker needs, notably the paramedical training provided by the Ministry of
Health, and the training in construction specializations provided by the
Ministry of Public Works.
1.05     Significant programs of pre-service skill training within the private
sector are extremely limited, and are confined largely to commercial speciali-
zations. The single institution which provides vocational training specifi-
cally oriented to the needs of the private sector is the Office of Vocational
Training and Employment Promotion (1'Office de la Formation Professionnelle et
de la Promotion du Travail), hereafter referred to as the Office. The Office
was founded in 1975 as a financially autonomous agency under the Ministry of
Labor (MOL).  It was created principally to train manpower for the private
sector, to adapt vocational training to the needs of the labor market, and to
upgrade worker skills.  In 1981, the Office was transferred to the Ministry of
Planning (MOP).   In July 1984, the Office was  transferred further to the
Ministry of Public Works (MPW) or Ministare de l'Equipement, now designated
the  Ministry  of  Public  Works,  Vocational  Training,  and  Staff  Training
(Ministare de l'Equipment, de la Formation Professionnelle, et de la Formation
des Cadres).  This recent transfer was made in light of the MNPW's extensive
construction experience and regional administrative network in order to
facilitate the significant planned expansion of Office-supervised vocational
training. The structure, programs, and financial autonomy of the Office are
not affected by this recent transfer. Like the other three public enterprises
under the authority (tutelle) of the MNPW, the Office retains full financial
and  administrative  autonomy  over  its  staff,  programs  and  finances.   The
Office's recurrent costs are entirely met through receipts from a 1% salary
tax on all private-sector employers. The Office remains the most important
government institution for skill training, and enjoys the maximum confidence
of the Government to meet the most urgent needs for skilled manpower during
the coming decade.
1.06     The Office offers pre-employment programs for skilled workers and
technicians covering several specializations in the industrial, construction
and commercial sectors.  The Office's training facilities include vocational
training centers (VTCs) for skilled worker training, Institutes of Applied
Technology (ITAs) for post-secondary technician training, and mobile units for



-4-
variable-format training in areas of the country not served by other training
facilities.  The Office's VTCs and institutes of applied technology are used
principally to provide pre-service training.  But these facilities are also
used for the Office's in-service or "work promotion" programs, comprising
apprenticeship training, correspondence courses, functional training, techni-
cal upgrading, and evening courses.  The Office also develops programs and
provides training under contract in response to specific requests from private
firms. This training is provided either in Office training facilities or on
site, depending upon the nature of the training needs.
1.07     The Office's training activities by enrollments and type of training
are presented  in Annex Table  1.  The most  important  of  these  activities
quantitatively are the two-year pre-service skill training in industrial,
construction and commercial specializations offered in the Office's VTCs to
graduates of lower secondary schooling (grade 9). Like other Office training
activities, these programs are of high quality and are vigorously and effi-
ciently managed.  They also are virtually the only source of private-sector
training at this level, and need to be expanded significantly to supply the
estimated demand for this level of skilled manpower (Table 1.1).
1.08     The Office's administrative  structure and  its methods  of  program
preparation contribute to close links with employers.  The Office is admini-
stered by a tripartite Administrative Council presided over by the Minister of
Public Works, Vocational Training and Staff Training, and composed of 28
members;  14 high-ranking officials of several ministries representing the
Government, 7 representing employers, and 7 representing trade union members.
The seven employers on the Council are represented by members of the General
Economic Confederation (Confederation Generale Economigue Marocaine), the
Chamber of Industry and Commerce, and the principal professional associa-
tions. The Management Committee, composed of about one third of the Council
members, is charged with overseeing execution of the policies adopted by the
Office Administrative Council. At the central level, there is also a Techni-
cal Committee which deals with technical questions such as the preparation of
training programs, organization of seminars and evening courses, and hiring of
part-time instructors.  An important element of Office administration which
provides continuous feedback from employers to training programs is the net-
work of Regional Training Councils. For each VTC or for each city (if there
are more than one training center in the same city), there is a Regional
Training Council which deals with specific questions concerning the training
center such as practical tests, labor market requirements, training within
industry, adaptation of training programs, and placement of graduates.  The
chairman of the Council is a local employer; the vice chairman and secretary
is the director of the VTC. Since their creation six years ago, the Regional
Training Councils have progressively assumed a dynamic role in the development
of training programs and related activities for each of the Office's VTCs.
1.09     The Office's training programs are prepared in close consultation
with users. The Office has developed curricula for each training specializa-
tion offered by the VTCs based on a detailed analysis of the task, performed
by skilled workers in a representative sample of major private-sector



-5-
enterprises.   These revised curricula have recently been introducpd in the
Office's existing centers, with very satisfactory results. An important func-
tion of the Regional Training Councils is to provide continuous feedback to
the VTCs in order to ensure that their programs remain relevant and effec-
tive.  They perform this function well.  The programs for training provided
through the Office's mobile training uaits are developed through field surveys
of regional training needs following specific training requests from province-
level officials, trade unions, or firms with particular training needs.
Vocational Training Issues
1.10     The main issues in vocational training are recognized by the Govern-
ment, and are the basis of a constructive dialogue with the Bank.  They are:
(a) how to achieve a rapid expansion in vocational training capacity in speci-
fic areas in the medium term to meet priority manpower needs; (b) how to
improve the coordination of vocational training and related technical training
among the various agencies involved in such training; and (c) how to mobilize
additional resources for and reduce unit costs of vocational training so as to
assure the long-term financial viability of an expanded vocational training
system.
1.11    Expansion of Vocational Training Capacity.  A point which has been
stressed in discussions with the Government on the findings and recommend-1
tions of the 1983 Education and Training Sector Survey is that past government
investments have neglected skill training for the private sector. The Govern-
ment acknowledges that the rapid expansion of higher education which has
occurred since 1973, although appropriate when the expanding administration
was able to absorb most of its graduates, is no longer appropriate when public
sector employment has stabilized and when government efforts instead are
focussed on promoting the growth of private-sector industries. The- Government
has therefore agreed to slow the growth of higher education and to expand
instead the capacity for skill training for early school leavers to meet
private-sector  manpower  needs.   The  Government's  commitment  to  reinforce
vocational training has been recently confirmed at the highest level of the
Government.
1.12     Improved  Coordination  of Vocational  Training.   This  expansion  of
vocational training should be carried out in the context of improved coordina-
tion of training efforts among the various public and private agencies
involved in training.  Improved coordination is necessary to assure coherence
of vocational training, to eliminate possible redundancy, to fill lacunae, and
perhaps most importantly, to implement a trade testing and certification
service in order to help employers judge the competence of job candidates.
The Government in 1978 established a Permanent Commission of Vocational
Training which was to coordinate vocational training efforts. In the absence
of a clear administrative mandate, the Commission has made little tangible
progress  toward  this goal.  The inventory of existing public  and private
training programs which is being carried out in the context of the MOP's
ongoing manpower study, the first phase of which was supported by the Third
Education Project, should supply the basic data necessary to begin the task of



- 6 -
coordination. The Government has agreed to conduct a study on how to imple-
ment an effective program of vocational training coordination (paras. 2.02d,
2.16a(iii),  and 5.02a(iii)).  As the ministry now responsible  for training
coordination, the MPW is to conduct this study. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the Government would by December 31, 1985 provide to the
Bank for its review and comment the findings of the study, and subsequently
would discuss with the Bank the proposed measures for improved coordination of
vocational training and how they should be implemented (para. 5.02a(iii) and
5.02c).
1.13     Financial Viability  of Vocational  Training.   An  important  issue
affecting the long-run financial viability of vocational training is how to
assure adequate investment and recurrent budgetary resources to support the
major planned expansion of vocational training beyond the current project.
The recurrent expenses of the Office's vocational training program are now
entirely met through the 1% salary tax collected from all private-sector
employers by the Social Security Administration (Caisse de Sdcuritd Sociale).
The investment requirements for the Office's training program are met through
transfers  from the government investment budget.  Although  these  financial
resources are expected to meet the investment and recurrent budgetary needs of
the proposed project, they are not likely to be adequate to support the major
expansion of training capacity foreseen beyond the current project. A related
question concerns the efficiency of resource allocation from public and
private sources for Office training programs. The private sector is the main
beneficiary and source of financing (through the vocational training levy) for
Office  training programs.   However,  the public  sector also contributes  to
these programs through budgetary transfers for Office investments, and
benefits from them through training provided by Office training programs to
staff of some public enterprises.   To maximize  the efficiency of resource
allocation for vocational training, contributions to training costs by the
public and private sectors should be commensurate with the benefits which
accrue to each.
1.14     The Government has therefore agreed  to examine  the prospects  for
assuring adequate financing of vocational training in the future through such
measures as: (a) raising the salary tax rate; (b) extending the salary tax to
public enterprises which benefit from Office-provided training; (c) providing
incentives for private-sector employers to participate more fully in training;
(d) introducing of trainee fees, accompanied by a trainee loan scheme; or
(e) reducing the Office's recurrent budgetary requirements by meeting the
annual recurrent costs  (about DH 50 million)  of the Institutes of Applied
Technology (which benefit private-sector enterprises less directly than other
Office training activities) in part through student fees rather than through
receipts from the vocational training levy. As the ministry now responsible
for implementing the Government's plan for expanded vocational training, the
MPW is to conduct this study. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
thac the Government would take appropriate measures to maintain self-financing
of  Office  recurrent  costs  (paras.  2.17d  and  5.02d).   In  particular,  the
Government gave assurances that the recommendations of the study (para.



2.16a(iv)) would be implemented after consultation with the Bank, as and when
necessary to ensure this financial autonomy, and to bring about improved
cost-sharing among the various beneficiaries of Office training programs.
1.15     In the long term,  the  financial viability of vocational  training
commensurate with needs will also require the introduction of new, shorter and
more flexible training programs to complement the conventional, pre-service
programs through which most vocational training is now provided. One promis-
ing format for training is apprenticeship training. Apprenticeship training
could make a much greater contribution to cost-effective skill formation than
it is doing now.  Apprenticeship training is currently limited to the pilot
program being conducted  in the Casablanca area by  the Office.   The main
reasons why apprenticeship training has failed to develop are the lack of
trade certification which would help employers judge the level of skills
acquired under apprenticeship training and, particularly, the lack of a legal
code establishing the mutual rights and obligations of apprentices and
employers. The Government has agreed to carry out a study on a strategy for
the development of apprenticeship training.  The study is to focus on the
appropriate legal context and employer incentives for encouraging the growth
of apprenticeship training and the necessary steps to develop an adequate
national   system  of   trade  certification   (paras.   2.16a(i),   5.02a(i)).
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Government would, by
December 31, 1985, provide to the Bank for its review and comment the findings
of the study (para. 5.02a(i).
Government Education/Training Priorities and Bank Lending Strategy
1.16     Government  Priorities.   The  evolution  of  Bank  education/training
lending and sector work in Morocco has reflected and influenced the develop-
ment of the Government's education/training strategy.  In most of the years
since Independence, government education policy has focussed on the goals of
expanded general primary, secondary and higher education, and replacement of
foreign teaching staff with Moroccan teachers. Recent increases in unemploy-
ment and the conspicuous shortages of skilled manpower which arose during the
Moroccanization program of the 1970's have led the Government to address
manpower and training issues in the current Five-Year Development Plan
(1981-85) more specifically than ever before. The priorities expressed- in the
Plan are to achieve universal enrollment of primary-age children by ,992, to
raise the proportion-now less than 10%--of upper-cycle secondary students
enrolled in technical streams, to continue the very rapid expansion of
university enrollments, and to double vocational training capacity by 1986.
Several recent developments have led the Government to reconsider the desira-
bility and feasibility of continued rapid expansion of university enrollments,
and to assign an even greater priority to expanded vocational training. These
developments include the stabilization of civil-service employment, the
emergence of significant unemployment among university graduates in liberal
arts specializations, evidence of declining quality in university programs, a
new government awareness of the financial untenability of continuing to offer
higher education unselectively to the graduates of secondary schooling in a
rapidly expanding system, and evidence of skilled manpower constraints upon



-8-
the  desired  increase  in  industrial  output.   Accordingly,  the  Government
intends to expand vocational training capacity in existing programs, to
develop new flexible vocational training programs which can be implemented on
a large scale, and to improve the links between formal schooling, vocational
training, and the job market. The Government also intends to improve the
efficiency of public investments in all sectors by providing training for
officials in all ministries in project selection and preparation, the absence
of which has hampered public investment planning and implementation in the
past.
1.17     Bank Lending Strategy.  The Bank has been active in the education/
training sector since 1963, supporting five education/training projects.
Consistent with government priorities, Bank strategy in the sector has evolved
from an initial focus on reinforcement of general education at the primary and
secondary levels to its current emphasis on reinforcing employment-oriented
skill training and on introducing structural reforms to improve the effi-
ciency, financial viability, and employment orientation of education at all
levels. With the exception of direct support through smnll project components
for manpower training in the sectors of forestry (second education project),
and health, tourism, and rural development (third education project), the bulk
of Bank lending has been in support of the formal education system, particu-
larly of technical and engineering specializations, and has attempted to
improve both internal and external efficiency of education through curriculum
reform, upgrading  teacher  skills,  and  improving  teaching  equipment.   The
proposed vocational training project (US$44.0 million) would constitute a
logical evolution of this strategy in an area of training vital to the health
of the Moroccan economy in the 1990's. Consistent with current government
priorities, it would support skill training for school leavers to meet
private-sector manpower needs-particularly  in  the  industrial  sector.   It
would also support the development of a national training program in project
preparation-an area in which current deficiencies have hampered investment
pian-ning and implementation in all sectors. At the same time, the proposed
project would prepare the ground for a more comprehensive future project in
skill training, for implementation within the next Development Plan.
1.18     The  first  three  education  projects  included  vocational  training
components. Although several of these were subsequently deleted from the
projects due to changes in government policy affecting some of the training
institutions and government decisions to implement others using the Govern-
ment's  own  resources,  the  remaining  vocational  training  components were
successfully implemented. The First Education Project (Credit 79-MOR) was to
have included 21 "multilateral" secondary schools with vocational specializa-
tions. Three of these schools were deleted from the project- in 1968 and the
rest were converted to general education facilities as a result of the Govern-
ment's decision to suspend all employment-oriented vocational education in MOE
secondary  schools.   The  OED  project  performance  audit  report  (PPAR-1637;-
June 17, 1977) endorsed these changes, noting that "in view of the rapidly
growing need for high-level manpower, the project was still justified (as a
scurce of inputs for post-secondary education) even after the elimination of
the short,  vocationally oriented terminal  courses."   The Second Education
Project (Credit 266-MOR) was to have provided for the construction and



-9-
equipping of a number of general education MOE institutions, and four
vocational  institutions:   two  MOL  vocational  training  centers,  a  new
Department of Veterinary Medicine for the existing Hassan II Institute of
Agronomy,  and  a  new Royal  School  of  Forestry  in  Sale.   Shortly  after
effectiveness, IDA decided to delete from the project the first three of these
institutions because construction of the vocational training centers had begun
in advance of IDA contract approval, and because the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA) was unwilling to modify designs of the Department of Veterinary Medicine
as IDA requested. The Royal School of Forestry was completed satisfactorily
(PPAR-4545, June 14, 1983).  In addition to a number of general education
institutions to be implemented by the MOE, the Third Education Project (Loan
1220-T-MOR)  included  several vocationally  oriented  components:   a  Rural
Development and Extension Training Center to be implemented by the MOA, a
Hotel Training School and four Hotel Training Centers to be implemented by the
Ministry of Tourism, and a College of Public Health and three paramedical
training centers to be implemented by the Ministry of Health.  The project
closed on September 1, 1983, and a project completion report is being
prepared.   Implementation  of  the  non-MOE  components  of  the  project  was
seriously delayed by inadequate supervision by the Ministries concerned.  As a
result of these delays, three hotel training centers and the three paramedical
training centers were deleted from the project with Bank and Government
approval.  With the exception of one tourism training center, all of the
training facilities deleted from the project are being implemented by the
Government with its own resources.
1.19     The project completion reports and related PPARs for the completed
education projects with vocational components reflect Bank experience which
indicates  the desirability  of:   (a)  ensuring as adequate and complete a
preparation of project components as possible prior to Board presentation;
(b) concentrating project components in a single ministry with good- implemen-
tation capacity; and (c) close and continuous monitoring of technical assis-
tance implementation. The design of the proposed vocational training project
is consistent with these lessons of past project implementation. An important
feature of the proposed project is the streamlined administrative procedures
of the agency which would execute the project (paras. 3.14 and 3.15). These
procedures have led to a record of very efficient implementation of past
investment, and are expected to lead to a similar efficient performance in
implementing the proposed project.



- 10 -
II. THE PROJECT
Obiectives and Scope
2.01     The  proposed  vocational  training  project  would  address  the  key
vocational training issues described above (paras. 1.10-1.15). In addition,
it would address the need to improve project preparation in all sectors (para.
1.17). Accordingly, the project would assist the Government to:
(a) expand vocational training capacity consistent with the country's
future needs for skilled manpower by supporting (i) the expansion of
existing Office skill training programs, (ii) by supporting the
planning of future training activities in the areas of apprenticeship
traini-g/certification and small business management training, and
(iii) by supporting preinvestment design of specific vocational
training components for possible future projects;
(b) improve vocational training coordination by assisting the Government
in developing a strategy for coordination of vocational training
among the various public and private agencies involved in such
training;
Cc)  contribute  to the financial viability of  vocational  training  by
supporting a study on the policy options for assuring the adequate
financing of vocational training in the future; and
Cd) improve project selection and project preparation in all sectors by
supporting the development of a national training program in project
preparation.
2.02     To achieve these objectives, the project would provide:
(a)  construction, furnishing and equipping of  22 new  industrial VTCs
(4,775 training places) throughout the country for the Office skill
training network;
(b) instructional equipment and furniture for the new Office Instructor
Training Center which is nearing completion in Casablanca under
government financing;
(c) five new mobile training units to supplement the three Office mobile
training units now in operation;
(d) technical assistance for conducting studies and developing future
training activities in the areas of apprenticeship training and
certification, training coordination, small business management
training, financing of vocational training, and future project
preparation;



- 11 -
(e)  technical  assistance  in  support  of  the  Office's  new  Instructor
Training Center for Office staff training in the areas of vocational
training organization and management, and audio-visual training
methods; and
(f)  technical assistance for development of a national program in project
selection and preparation, consisting of local training seminars and
instructional materials for the local training seminars.
Project Description
2.03     Twenty-Two Vocational Training Centers (VTCs).  This component would
finance the construction, equipping, and furnishing of 22 additional indus-
trial VTCs for the Office to supplement the 41 such centers now in operation
(Annex 1). The 1981-85 Development Plan had called for the construction of 53
additional VTCs for the Office. Implementation of this plan has been delayed
by the Government's recent weak budgetary situation. The proposed 22 project
VTCs would constitute a partial fulfillment of the original plan to construct
53 centers.  The locations of the 22 VTCs were selected by the Office,  in
consultation with local officials and representatives of the Regional Training
Councils, as the areas of the country with the most conspicuous training
needs. As shown in the map of proposed VTCs (Annex), they are widely distri-
buted regionally.
2.04     The 4,775 training places to be created in the project VTCs would
expand by 68% the number of training places now in operation in existing
Office industrial VTCs (Annex 1); annual intakes of 2,450 would be small in
relation to the projected annual number of grade 9 school leavers (157,000)
when the project VTCs are operational. Projected output of the project VTCs
is 2,200 per year; the training dropout rate for the proposed VTCs is expected
to be less than 10%, consistent with the experience of existing VTCs.
Specializations to be offered in each of the project VTCs have been selected
on  the basis  of existing training needs,  existing training capacity,  and
specific planned industrial developments in each of the regions where the
centers are to be located. Each of the 22 project VTCs is to house an average
of 8 training sections of about 25 student places, each for a different
specialization.   A total of 20 specializations are to be provided in  the
project VTCs (Annex 2). The bulk of the enrollments in the proposed VTCs is
to be in specializations designed to support the planned expansion of indus-
trial output: 70% of enrollments are to be in industrial specializations, 27%
are to be in construction specializations, and 3% are to be in commercial
specializations.
2.05     Training programs for the 22 project VTCs, averaging 18 months in
duration, would be the same modular programs as are now successfully in
operation in the existing Office industrial VTCs (para. 1.09). As is true of
the existing VTCs, entrants to the project VTCs will be required to have
completed the fourth secondary grade (grade 9), and to have passed a test in
general knowledge (mathematics, Arabic, and French) organized at the national
level.- Upon successful completion of the VTC training program, students
receive  a  skilled  worker  certificate  in  their  respective  areas  of



- 12 -
specialization. The popularity of the VTC training programs is evident in the
fact that there are five times as many applicants as new places in existing
Office industrial VTCs, and that 40% of the entrants have completed formal
schooling above the required entry level. The current percentage of females
in Office industrial and construction courses is 6.4% and rising; the expected
percentage of female students in the project VTCs is 15%.
2.06     As in the existing Office VTCs,  the estimated overall utilization
rates for the project VTCs are very high--averaging between 80% and 95%. The
project VTCs would offer training on two shifts. A main, daytime shift would
provide pre-service skilled worker training for 4,775 trainees; an evening
shift would provide in-service, upgrading training for a total of 2,300
workers in the vicinity of the respective training centers.  In conformity
with national practice, each VTC would be provided with simple housing for the
director and a custodian. In addition, student boarding facilities would be
provided for 80% of the students in the eight project VTCs whose locations are
in areas of highly dispersed population with very limited potential either for
commuting by students or boarding by students in nearby private housing. The
other 14 VTCs are in higher density areas where boarding is not essential;
trainees attending these centers would be accommodated at home or with
relatives.
2.07     The  22  project  VTCs would  require  a  total  of 225  professional/
technical staff and 161 service staff. Each center would require 8 vocational
training instructors--a  total of 176 instructors.   The Office will recruit
most of these instructors, as it has done for the existing VTCs, from the
graduates of the post-secondary technician programs in its Institutes for
Applied Technology (ITAs). An ample supply of adequately prepared vocational
instructors  is available  from  this  source.   To  train vocational  training
instructors  for its VTCs, the Office selects  the leading graduates of the
two-year  post-secondary  ITA  courses  in  the  relevant  specializations  and
provides a subsequent year of pedagogical training, including supervised
student  instructor work  in its VTCs.   This pedagogical  training has been
provided in the ITAs in the past, but will be provided in the new Casablanca
Instructor Training Center (para. 2.11) when this facility is completed in
July 1986.
2.08     Like the existing Office VTCs (para. 1.08), each project VTC will be
closely linked with a Regional Training Council which will provide advice and
feedback on training programs, help place graduates, and coordinate local
in-service training.  The director of each Office training institution,  in
close collaboration with the respective Regional Training Council, is actively
engaged in placement activities.   This action includes ad hoc labor market
surveys in the area covered by the institution, letters to potential employers
and contacts with employers by the instructor in charge of the in-service
training. Available information indicates that job placement of graduates of
Office VTC and ITA training programs is satisfactory.



- 13 -
2.09     Based on prevailing wage differentials by skill level, the present
value of benefits of the proposed 22 VTCs in terms of projected earnings of
pre-service training graduates alone is estimated at almost three times the
present value of capital and recurrent costs of the centers. Although this
estimate is sensitive to changes in the parameters of the benefit/cost calcu-
lation (see Annex 8), it does indicate a very significant internal rate of
return for this component (21%) at the prevailing skilled wage differential.
Moreover, this calculation does not take into account two important but not
readily quantifiable categories of benefits: (a) the improvements in produc-
tivity and earnings of workers who receive in-service training; and (b) the
improved returns to capital investment through enhanced worker productivity,
particularly in the industrial sector.
2.10     Equipment for the Instructor Training Center.  This component would
-provide furniture, audio-visual equipment and library books for the Office's
new  Instructor Training  Center.   The Center  is nearing  completion as  an
extension to the Office's Casablanca ITA specialized in building and construc-
tion specializations (Institut de Metiers de Bitiment). The Center, which is
being built with - government budget funds, includes classrooms, boarding
facilities for 50 student instructors, a library, and an audio-visual
section.  Because this is to be the first such center in the country,  the
project includes TA for fellowships and consultant services to assist the
Office in organizing the Center and introducing audio-visual instruction
programs (paras. 2.02e and 2.16b).
2.11     The Center  is to  train new instructors  for the 22 project VTCs
through a one-year program in training methods provided to selected graduates
of the Office's ITAs. The Center will accommodate 60 full-time trainees, with
an equivalent annual output.   Student instructors who are selected for the
program are to receive a reasonable fellowship (DH 350 per month plus board
and lodging), and will be obliged to sign a contract to serve the Office for
eight years upon completion of the program.   (The Office is an attractive
employer; even apart from this contractual obligation, the Office is expected
to continue to retain a high percentage of its training staff.) In addition
to this pre-service program to train new instructors for the VTCs, the Center
is to offer in-service upgrading and refresher courses of varying duration
during weekends, evenings, and vacation periods for instructors in all the
Office  training  facilities.   The Office  currently  provides  both  types  of
programs  (pre-service and  in-service)Fin  existing  ITA  premises.   The  new
Center which is to be equipped under the project will allow the Office to
improve the quality of both types of instructor training programs by providing
purpose-built facilities, by allowing the introduction of audio-visual
instructor training methods, and by providing adequate library facilities for
training.  It will also contribute to improved teaching quality in the ITAs
where such training is currently provided by reducing classroom congestion.
The workshop facilities in the ITA and VTC which are adjacent to the new
Center will, however, continue to be used for training demonstrations in
conjunction with the new Center's instructor training programs.



- 14 -
2.12     Five Mobile Training Units.  The 1981-85 Development Plan called for
the acquisition by the Office of 20 new mobile training units to expand the
very limited training capacity of the Office's existing outreach training
program. Only one of the 20 planned mobile units has been acquired by the
Office and put into operation during the current Plan period, supplementing
the  two mobile  training units  operated by  the Office  since  1977.   This
proposed component would provide five additional mobile units for the Office.
Like the existing three mobile units, three of the new units would be operated
from and stocked from the Office central facilities in Casablanca; two would
be regionally based and operated, respectively, from the VTCs in Fes and
Agadir. The regionally-based feature of the latter two proposed mobile units
is being considered by the Office for possible future expansion. Government
agreement was obtained at negotiations that the Office would conduct an
evaluation of the experiences of the two regionally-based mobile training
units within two years after the units are first put into use and would
communicate the results of this evaluation to the Bank promptly for review and
comment  (paras. 2.17b  and  5.02b).   Existing  Office  staff  resources  are
adequate to conduct this evaluation.
2.13     The main objective of training through mobile units is to provide
needed training in remote areas not otherwise served by training facilities.
To date, the Office mobile units have trained over 1,700 people in agricul-
tural mechanics and auto mechanics in the most remote areas of the country.
This training approach has been very successful; by providing on-site training
in response to specific training requests, it has been able to assure the
relevance and applicability of training to prevailing local conditions.
2.14     The three centrally based mobile units to be provided under the
proposed project will h?ve 20 training places each and will specialize, one
each, in radio and TV repair, electricity, and carpentry/cabinet making. The
regionally based units will have a capacity of 40 places each and will be of a
polyvalent character (offering several specializations each) by changing their
equipment according to evolving training needs. Equipment not in use will be
stored in the base VTCs. The specializations would be: agricultural and auto
mechanics (40 places), welding and sheet metal (20 places), electricity (20
places), carpentry/cabinet making (20 places), and plumbing (20 places). For
specializations other than agricultural and auto mechanics, a single mobile
unit could offer two specializations simultaneously.
2.15     Mobile-unit  training programs  are  tailored by  the Office  to the
particular training needs of each mobile-unit "session." Mobile-unit training
sessions are planned following a training request from local officials. A
team from the Office then visits the training site to survey the nature of
training needs  before  a mobile-unit  training  session  is  scheduled.   The
Office's three existing mobile training units are in virtually continuous use,
and have been fully scheduled for the next two years based upon training
requests from all parts of the country. Like the three mobile units now in
operation, the five new mobile units will offer three types of programs as
follows: (a) an introductory training program of six to ten weeks addressed
to all persons who can read and write. The objective of this program is to



- 15 -
train for simple specific operations and equipment maintenance and repair;
(b) a training program addressed to primary school graduates lasting four to
six months. This program leads to a certificate of skill training and aims at
imparting basic technical knowledge in the disciplines concerned; and
(c) complementary  or  upgrading  training.   This  program  is  addressed  to
employed persons, and aims at improving or complementing their knowledge in a
particular area. The duration of these courses varies with the type and level
of knowledge of the trainees.
2.16     Technical Assistance (TA).  To support the project objectives,  the
proposed project would provide TA to the Office (36 manmonths of consultant
services), to the MPW (36 manmonths of consultant services), and to the
Ministry of Planning (9 manmonths of consultant services), which have adequate
staff resources and experience to implement the TA successfully. The TA is to
be provided to assist these agencies to carry out the following three sets of
activities:
(a)  Development of Future Training Activities.   In order  to  aid  the
development of new types of training programs appropriate to the
Country's long-term training needs and constraints (paras. 1.12
through 1.15), the proposed project would provide consultant services
for the following specific actions:
Ci)   to  assist  the  Office  to  formulate  a  strategy  for  the
development of apprenticeship training (paras. 1.15 and
5.02a(i)),  an expert would be  recruited  for 6 months  to
assist the Office in conducting a study on apprenticeship
training.  The study is to focus on the appropriate legal
context and employer incentives for encouraging the growth of
apprenticeship training and the necessary steps to develop an
adequate national system of trade certification;
vii)  to assist the Office to develop a program on small business
management training (para. 1.02), to be introduced in
existing Office  training  facilities.   The Office  has  had
numerous recent requests for such training, which would aim
to improve the efficiency of small business management. The
TA for this activity would provide an expert for 12 months to
help develop such a program, including training for small
business managers on such topics as inventory control, plant
layout,   personnel  management,   financial   planning,   and
equipment selection;
C(iii) to assist the MN to formulate a strategy for coordinating
training  efforts  among  the  various  public  and  private
agencies  involved  in  training  (paras.  1.12,  2.02d,  and
5.02a(iii)). An expert would be recruited for six months to
assist the MPW to conduct a study on vocational training
coordination. The study, which would incorporate findings of
the ongoing MOP study on manpower supply and demand (para.
1.12), is to recommend actions to improve the coordination of
vocational training among the various public and private
agencies involved in such training;



- 16 -
(iv)   to assist the MPW to conduct a study on policy options for
assuring the adequate financing of future vocational training
activities, including the continued self-financing of Office
recurrent  expenditures   (paras.   1.14,   2.02d,   3.12  and
5.02a(iv)).  An expert would be recruited for 6 months to
assist the Office in conducting this study; and
(v)   to assist  the MPW  to  conduct  pre-investment  studies  for
possible future vocational training project comnonents.
Twenty-four  manmonths  of  consultant  services  would  be
provided to finance short-term services of appropriate
experts as required.
(b)  Support for Instructor Training.  The project would provide TA for
the Office's new Instructor Training Center (paras. 2.02e, 2.10, and
2.11) for two vital activities: (i) to develop an effective organi-
zation and management structure for the new center (an expert for 6
months); and (ii) to introduce audio-visual methods in the training
program of the new Center (an expert for 12 months).
(c). Program in Project Preparation. In the context of the recent invest-
ment program review, the Government has expressed a commitment to
more rational project selection in all sectors, to be based on
economic analysis of investment options.  In support of this objec-
tive (paras. 1.16, 2.02f and 4.03), the proposed project would
provide   financing   for  national   training   seminars   (including
participant  costs  and  consultant  services),   and  instructional
materials to assist the MOP to develop a program for training
middle-level officials in all ministries in project identification,
preparation and appraisal. This activity, which would be carried out
by the MOP with UNDP cofinancing (as part of the UNDP technical
assistance project (para. 3.10)) and with collaboration of the Bank"s
Economic Development Institute (EDI), would comprise two phases.
During the first phase, training resources and needs in all
ministries would be assessed, a training plan would be developed, and
trainers would be trained.   A preliminary phase has recently been
completed, which involved the visit to Washington of a three-person
program team to work with EDI staff and was funded by UNDP.  The
second phase would consist of a series of local training seminars on
methods of project identification, preparation, and appraisal for
selected officials of government ministries. Following the phase-two
seminars, the experience of the training program would be assessed to
determine appropriate future activities to assure the continuation of
the training and to monitor its impact on project selection and
implementation. The entire program is to be carried out under the
responsibility of the Ministry of Planning, and under the guidance of
an Interministerial Steering Coumittee consisting of representatives
of the Ministries of Planning, Finance, and Economic Affairs, as well
as UNDP (para. 3.14). Day-to-day coordination of the program is to
be carried out by the program team.  Because of the importance of



- 17 -
this team to the successful implementation of the program in project
preparation, assurances were sought and obtained at negotiations
that, prior to any disbursements of the loan against this component,
the Government would enter into an agreement with an organization
acceptabla to the Bank to maintain an appropriately constituted
program team (paras. 2.17f, 3.14 and 5.02f). EDI inputs in support
of the program in project preparation would be provided from EDI's
own budget, at no cost to the project.
2.17     Assurances  were  obtained  from  the  Government  and  the  Office  at
negotiations that:
(a)  the following actions would be  implemented according to terms of
reference and a time schedule acceptable to the Bank, and that the
results of these actions would be provided to the Bank for comment by
the respective dates indicated for each:  (i) by December 31, 1985,
formulation of a strategy for the development of apprenticeship
training (paras. 2.16a(i) and 5.02a), (ii) by July 1, 1986, develop-
ment of a. program on small business management training (paras.
2.16a(ii) and 5.02a), (iii) by December 31, 1985, formulation of a
strategy for vocational training coordination (paras. 2.16a(iii) and
5.02a), (iv) by December 31, 1985, carrying out of a study on finan-
cing of vocational training (paras. 2.16a(iv) and 5.02a), (v) by
December 31, 1985, development of an effective organization and
management structure for the new Instructor Training Center (paras.
2.16b(i) and 5.02a), (vi) by December 31, 1986, introduction of
audio-visual training methods in the program of the Instructor
Training Center (paras. 2.16b(ii) and 5.02a), and (vii) by July 1,
1988, carrying out of the program in project preparation (paras.
2.16c and 5.02a);
(b)  the Office would conduct an evaluation of the experiences of the two
regionally-based mobile training units within two years after the
units are first put into use and would communicate the results of
this evaluation to the Bank promptly for review and comment (paras.
2.12 and 5.02b);
(c)  the Government would examine the recommendations of the study on
coordination of vocational training and discuss with the Bank the
proposed measures for improved coordination of vocational training
and how they should be implemented (paras. 2.16a(iii), 5.02a(iii),
and 5.02c);
(d)  the Government would take appropriate measures to maintain the self
financing of Office recurrent costs, and in particular that the
recommendations of the study on financing vocational training (para.
2.16a(iv)) would be implemented, after consultation with the Bank, as
and when necessary to ensure this financial autonomy and to bring
about improved cost-sharing among the various beneficiaries of Office
training programs (para. 5.02d);



- 18 -
(e) project accounts would be audited annually in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles by independent auditors; and the Govern-
ment would furnish to the Bank within six months of the end of each
fiscal year certified copies of the project audit reports (paras.
3.25 and 5.02e); and
(f) that, prior to any disbursements of the loan against the program in
project preparation, the Government would enter into an agreement
with an organization acceptable to the Bank to maintain an appro-
priately constituted program team for the program in project prepara-
tion (para. 5.02f).



- 19 -
III. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSENENTS
Project Costs
3.01     Suimary of Project Costs.  The total cost of the project is estimated
at DH 398.8 million, or US$44.0 million equivalent. A capitalized front-end
fee of US$67,581 would be applied.   The estimated  total cost and foreign
exchange components by main project items are summarized in Table 3.1;
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST BY ITEM
Z Total
(DH Million)               (US$Thousand)         Base
Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total   Costs
Vocational training
centers (22)               105.7   158.3   264.0   11,675    17,470  29,145    91
Instructor training
center                       0.2     0.7      0.9        22        71      93      0
Mobile training units         1.3    11.7    13.0        144     1,295   1,439      4
Technical assistance:
Development of future
training activities         1.1     4.3      5.4      119        475     594      2
Support for Instructor
Training Center             0.4      1.4     1.8       40        158     198      1
Program in project
preparation                 2.4     3.5      5.9      260        389     649      2
TOTAL BASE COST           111.1   179.9   291.0   12,260    19,858  32,118   100
(August 1984 prices)
Physical contingencies       11.1    18.0    29.1    1,226       1,986   3,212    10
Price contingencies          31.3    47.4    78.7    3,459       5,232   8,691    27
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS         153.5   245.3   398.8   16,945    27,076  44,021   137
Front-End Fee                -        0.6      0.6       --         68      68      0
TOTAL FINAINCING
REQUIRED                   153.5   245.9   399.4   16,945    27,144  44,089   137



- 20 -
3.02     A breakdown of estimated project costs into local and foreign cost
elements by category of expenditure is suwmarized in Table 3.2:
Table 3.2: PROJECT COST BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Z Total
(DR Million)               (US$ Thousand)        Base
Category                     Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign   Total   Costs
Construction
Training facilities          52.0    42.5    94.5        5,737    4,694  10,431       32
Student boarding             14.7    12.0    26.7        1,618    1,324   2,942        9
Staff housing                 7.2     5.9    13.1          799      654   1,453        5
Site development              7.4     6.0    13.4          816      667   1,483        5
Subtotal                  81.3    66.4   147.7        8X970    7,339  16,309       51
Architectural services       12.3     2.5    14.8        1,354      277   1,631        5
Furniture and equipment
Furniture                     3.1     5.8      8.9         342      636      978       3
Equipment                    10.6    95.9   106.5        1,176   10,583  11,759      37
Subtotal                   13.7   101.7   115.4       1,518   11,219  12,737       40
Technical assistance
Consultant services           1.6     6.5      8.1         178      713      891       3
Seminars                      2.2     2.3      4.5         240      260      500       1
Instructional materials         -     0.5      0.5           -       50       50      0
Subtotal                    3.8     9.3    13.1         418    1,023  1_441         4
Total Base Cost
(mid 1984 prices)         111.1   179.9   291.0       12,260   19,858  32,118    100
Physical contingencies       11.1    18.0    29.1        1,226    1,986   3,212       10
Price contingencies          31.3    47.4    78.7        3,459    5,232   8.691       27
TOTAL PROJECT COST         153.5   245.3   398.8      16,945   27,076  44,021    137
Front-End Fee                -        0.6      0.6          --       68       68      --
TOTAL FINANCING
REQUIREMENTS            153.5   245.9   399.4       16,945   27,144  44,089    137



- 21 -
A summary presentation of estimated project costs both by component item and
by category of expenditure appears in Annex 4.
3.03     Bases of Cost Estimates.  Construction cost estimates are the prod-
ucts of:  (a) sketch plans for project training facilities, and (b) current
unit building costs based on recent contracts for similar standards of
construction in corresponding facilities, with adjustments for regional cost
differences.  The latter costs per square meter of gross construction area,
which average US$260 equivalent, are reasonable for the functional standards
of construction allowed for, and are below the median cost for comparable
Bank-assisted vocational training center construction (i.e., US$297 equivalent
in mid-1983 prices).   Costs for professional architectural services (design
and supervision) reflect the current scale of fees established by the Govern-
ment for services provided by local firms.
3.04     Estimated equipment costs are products of:  (a) lists reviewed during
appraisal, and (b) current CIF unit prices adjusted to include local transpor-
tation  costs  and,  where  appropriate,  installation  costs.   Furniture  cost
estimates are based on the relationship between furniture costs and construc-
tion costs observed for other Office VTCs.
3.05     Estimated  TA  costs  for  consultant  services  are  based  on  recent
experience in the country and the region and include salary, fees, overhead,
international  travel  and  subsistence.   Estimated  costs  of  local  training
seminars for the program in project preparation comprise 9 manmonths of
consultant services inclusive of hotel, local transportation, and related
seminar expenses costed at prevailing rates. Estimated costs of instructional
materials for the local training seminars are based on lists reviewed at
appraisal.
3.06     Customs Duties and Taxes.  Project cost estimates do not include any
identifiable customs duties or taxes, although local costs of civil works do
include indirect taxes amounting to about 15% of total civil works costs. All
materials and equipment imported for the project are exempt from customs
duties under the provisions of the UNESCO accord, agreed by the Government,
concerning educational imports.
3.07     Unit Areas and Unit Costs.  As indicated by the Table in Annex 5, the
construction areas per training place for training and boarding facilities for
project construction are reasonable and are in line with those for equivalent
facilities in other Bank-assisted education and training projects.
3.08     Contingency Allowances.  Project cost estimates include contingency
allowances for: (a) physical factors, equivalent to 10% of the estimated base
cost of all project components to allow for unforeseen events, and (b) price
escalation covering the period from negotiations to points of forecast
expenditure in accordance with the appraisal implementation schedule (Annex 6)
and the following projected annual rates of price escalation:



- 22 -
Table 3.3:   PROJECTED ANNUAL PRICE ESCAIA ION RATES
1985      1986      1987       1988      1989
Foreign costs            8.0%      9.0Z      9.0%       9.0%      7.5Z
Local costs             10.0%     10.0%      9.0X       9.0Z      7.5Z
At these rates, prices are projected to increase during the project implemen-
tation period by a total of 26Z for civil works, 27% for architectural ser-
vices, 30% for furniture and equipment, and 15Z for technical assistance.
Accordingly, aggregated price increases are estimated at 25Z of base costs
plus physical contingencies. Together, physical plus price contingencies are
equivalent to 37Z of base costs.
3.09     Foreign Exchange Component.  The estimated foreign exchange compo-
nent, including the capitalized front-end fee, is US$27.1 million, or about
62% of total estimated project cost. The estimation of the foreign exchange
component is based in turn on the estimate that the indirect foreign exchange
components of civil works, architectural services, and locally manufactured
furniture are 45%, 17% and 65% respectively, and on the expectations that:
Ca) all labor and material for civil works will be available locally and that
all construction contracts will be awarded to local or locally based contrac-
tors; Cb) architectural services will be provided by local or locally estab-
lished mixed Moroccan/foreign firms; (c) all mobile units and equipment will
be imported; (d) all furniture contracts will be awarded to local manufac-
turers, since manufacturing capabilities are good in the country; (e) 80% of
consultant services will be provided from foreign sources; and (f) all
instructional materials for the program in project preparation will be
imported. The resulting foreign exchange content of each category of base
costs is as follows:  (a) construction, 45Z, (b) architectural services, 17%,
(c) furniture,  65%,  (d)  equipment,  90Z,  (e) consultant  services,  80Z,
(f) local training seminars, 52%, and (g) instructional materials, 100%.
3.10     Financial Plan.   The proposed Bank  loan of US$27.1 million would
finance all the foreign exchange costs of all project components.   It would
finance  62Z of  total  project  costs  including  front-end  fee.   Funds  for
implementation of the Office-implemented components (para. 3.14) would be
provided on a grant basis by the Government. UNDP is expected to provide



- 23 -
US$170,000 of the cost of the program in project preparation. The Government
would finance the remaining US$16.8 million estimated local cost of the
Droject. The proposed financial plan for the project is summarized below:
Table 3.3: PROPOSED FINANCIAL PLAN
(US$ thousand equivalent)
Bank Share
Category                 Government      UNDP     Bank      Total       of Total
Construction               8,970          -       7,339    16,309         45X
Architectural services    1,354           -          277     1,631        17X
Furniture                    342          -          636       978        65%
Equipment                  1,176          -       10,583    11,759        90%
Technical assistance;
Development of Future
Training Activities       118          -         476        594        80%
Support for Instructor
Training Center            40          -          '58       198       80X
Program in project
preparation                90         170        389        649        60%
Total Base Cost           122690         170     19,858    32,118         62%
Physical and Price
Contingencies             4,685          -        7,218    11,903        62%
Total Project Cost        16?775         170     27,076    44,021         62%
Front-End Fee                 -           -           68        68       100%
Total Financing           16775          170     27,144    44,089         62%
Recurrent Expenditures
3.11     When  fully  operational  in  1989,  the  training  facilities  to  be
provided under the project are estimated to generate about DR 30 million
annually in recurrent costs, including staff salaries, maintenance, operation
of boarding facilities, and the cost of expendable materials for the VTC
workshops. This amount would constitute 20% of the projected 1989 recurrent



- 24 -
cost of all Office activities.   In view  of the high  priority which  the
Government attaches to the expansion of vocational training and in view of the
Office's receipt of earmarked revenues from the vocational training levy
(para. 1.13), the availability of funding to meet this incremental recurrent
cost requirement is not expected to be problematic.
3.12     The DE 76.3 million recurrent budget of the Office was fully met by
the DH 80.0 million receipts from the vocational training levy in 1983
(para. 1.13). Moreover, the recent 14% annual growth of revenues from this
source has exceeded the 11% annual growth of Office recurrent expenditures.
Although it may be reasonably expected that the recurrent costs of the
proposed vocational training expansion would be covered by continued growth of
receipts from the vocational training levy, it is not certain that revenues
from the levy, which are related to the level of private-sector output and
employment, will be sufficient to support the recurrent expenditure needs of
the significant longer-term growth of vocational training foreseen by the
Office. The project includes financing to assist the Government in carrying
out a study of measures to assure the adequate financing of future vocational
training activities (paras. 1.13, 2.02d, 2.16a(iv) and 5.02a(iv)). Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the Government would take appropriate
measures to maintain continued self-financing of Office recurrent costs (para.
5.02d).
Project Implementation
3.13     Implementation Period.  Phase I of the project construction, compris-
ing eight vocational training centers (VTCs), started in October 1984 and is
scheduled  to be completed by March  1988.   Phase II of the construction,
comprising the 14 remaining VTCs, is anticipated to commence in July 1986 and
be completed by July 1989. (A list of vocational training centers by imple-
mentation phase is presented in the project map (Annex )). A one-year guaran-
tee is applicable as of the final reception of buildings for both phases. The
construction, furnishing and equipping of all institutions and the TA compon-
ent are scheduled to be completed by December 31, 1989, as shown in the
implementation schedule in Annex 6.  In order to allow sufficient time for
submission of the final withdrawal applications, the Closing Date would be
December 31, 1990.
3.14     Project  Management.   The MOP Directorate  of Planniu:-,  under  the
responsibility of the Director of Planning, is to implement tlie program in
project preparation (para. 2.16c).  The staff and experience of the Direc-
torate of Planning are adequate to successfully implement this TA. Day-to-day
coordination of the program in project preparation is to be provided by a
program  team.  Because of the importance of this team  to  the successful
implementation of the program in project preparation, assurances were obtained
at negotiations that,  prior to any disbursements of the loan against this
component, the Government would enter into an agreement with an organization
acceptable to the Bank to maintain an appropriately constituted program team
for the program in project preparation (paras. 2.16c, 2.17f and 5.02f). The
MOP may authorize UNDP to make payments on its behalf for the program in
project preparation. Implementation of the vocational training coordination,



- 25 -
financing, and preinvestment studies (paras. 2.16a(iii), 2.16a(iv), and
2.16a(v) is to be carried out by the MPW, under the responsibility of the
Director of Vocational Training Planning.  The staff and experience of the
Vocational Training Planning Directorate are adequate to successfully imple-
ment these project components.  Implementation of all other proposed project
components  is  to be  carried out by  the Office's  Implementation  Service
(Service des RMalisations), under the responsibility of the Director of the
Implementation Service. The staff and experience of this Service are adequate
to successfully implement the civil works, furniture and equipment, and TA
components for which it will be responsible.  (See Annex 3 chart of Office
administrative structure.) This Service is responsible for implementation of
all the Office's ongoing projects.  The Service's own technical staff com-
prises a director of administration and finance, an office chief, an archi-
tect, a  technician,  and  two administrative  assistants.   These  staff are
supplemented by technical staff from other services of the Office as appro-
priate. Well staffed and well equipped as an implementation unit, the Imple-
mentation Service has recently successfully overseen the implementation of
four post-secondary Institutes of Applied Technology.  Construction for the
most recent of these. was completed in just over twelve months.
3. 15    The Office's efficient implementation performance reflects not only
its adequate staffing, but also the streamlined administrative procedures
which, as a semi-autonomous agency, it is able to apply. Most significant of
these is its straightforward procedure for approving contracts and making
payments to contractors and suppliers.  The Office regularly receives advance
transfers (delegations de credit) from the Ministry of Finance to cover
anticipated commitments and payment obligations.   On  the basis  of  these
transfers, the Office is able to approve contracts and to make payments to
contractors and suppliers without the delays which have arisen with the
Ministry of Finance approval procedure applicable  to the operating minis-
tries. The Office would also prepare withdrawal applications for Bank reim-
bursement of project expenses. For these reasons, project payments and loan
disbursements are expected to be made in a timely fashion, thereby obviating a
revolving fund account for the Office-implemented project components.
3.16     Adequate maintenance of existing Office facilities is assured by the
Office's maintenance facility in Casablanca.  The Office's maintenance pro-
gram, which will provide for the facilities to be provided under the proposed
project, includes a regular preventive maintenance program for workshop equip-
ment in all Office training facilities. Replacement parts are fabricated and
stocked in the Office's Casablanca training_facility, resulting in minimal
down-time for equipment undergoing repair.
3.17     Civil Works.  For the eight VTCs constituting the first phase of
project construction, sites are acquired, designs and engineering studies are
completed, and bids for major construction work (gros oeuvres) have been
received and evaluated by the Office. Designs for the eight Phase I VTCs were
reviewed by the appraisal mission and found satisfactory, with the stipulation
that minor modifications would be carried out in accordance with the mission's
recommendations. Bidding and bid evaluation documents for the gros oeuvres



- 26 -
bids were also reviewed by the appraisal mission and found satisfactory.
Contracts for this work were signed and construction began in October 1984.
Reimbursement against  these  expenses would  be  provided under retroactive
financing up to US$2.3 million (para. 3.27), although disbursements against
these expenses, as for other project expenses, are not expected to occur until
slightly later (Annex 7), in view of the 6-9 month interval between civil
works expenditures and disbursements observed in other projects. Bids for the
remaining construction work for the Phase I VTCs, covering carpentry and
electrical/mechanical work, were invited in October 1984.
3.18     For  the  14 VTCs  constituting  Phase  II of  the proposed project,
satisfactory sites are acquired and title deeds are in the name of the
Government. Consultant engineers and architects for ten of theqe centers were
appointed in October 1984; consultant engineers and architects for the
remaining four centers are scheduled to be appointed, after Bank review, in
November 1984. Designs and bidding documents are scheduled to be completed
and reviewed by the Bank in time to permit the invitation of consolidated bids
for all construction work (lots uniques) in February 1985.
3.19     Furniture and Equipment.  Detailed furniture and equipment lists for
the Phase I VTCs and preliminary lists of furniture and equipment for the
Instructor Training Center were reviewed by the appraisal mission and found
satisfactory. Equipment and furniture lists for the Phase II VTCs, which will
closely resemble those for the Phase I VTCs, are under preparation together
with bidding documents for all project equipment packages. Together with the
furniture and equipment lists for the Instructor Training Center, these are
scheduled to be finalized for Bank review by the end of December 1984. Bids
for all equipment and furniture to be procured under the project are to be
invited  in January  1985.   Equipment would  be delivered and  installed by
suppliers upon completion of the training facilities for which they are
destined.  Interim storage would be provided, particularly for Phase II VTC
equipment, as appropriate. The Office has adequate secure storage facilities
for this purpose.
3.20     Technical Assistance.  Draft terms of reference for all consultant
services and a schedule for specialists' services have been prepared and were
finalized  during  negotiations  (para.  5.01).   The  proposed  schedule  for
implementation of project TA is presented in Annex 6.



- 27 -
3.21     Procurement.  Procurement procedures proposed for the components of
the proposed project are slummarized in Table 3.4:
Table 3.4: PROPOSED PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
(Total Costs of Proposed Project Components
including Contingencies, Expressed in US$Millions)
Procurement Procedure
Project Component                       ICB     LCB      Other        Total Cost
Construction (22 VTCs)                   -       22.2       -               22.2
(9.2)                      (9.2)
Architects' fees                         -       -           2.2              2.2
(0.4)           (0.4)
Furniture and equipment                  16.3                1.5             17.8
(15.2)             (1.0)           (16.2)
Technical assistance                     -                   1.8              1.8
-(1.3)          (1.3)
Total                               16.3    22.2        5.5            44.0
(15.2)   (9.2)     (2.7)           (27.1)
NOTE: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by
the Bank.
3.22     Contracts for construction of the project institutions to be financed
under the loan would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding
(LCB) open to foreign firms and acceptable to the Bank in view of (a) the wide
geographic dispersion of the institutions; (b) the small contract value of
each center (estimated average total base cost under US$800,000) and subse-
quently (c) the anticipated lack of interest by foreign firms, as experienced
in the ongoing Bank-financed Fourth and Fifth Education Projects.  In these
projects, ICB led to award of construction contracts to Moroccan firms for all
sixty institutions financed under the projects, many of which were substan-
tially larger in size than the VTCs to be constructed under the proposed
vocational training project. Prior Bank review of procurement documentation
and contract award recommendations would be required for all civil works
contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$250,000 or more for
institutions to be financed under the loan.



- 28 -
3.23     Equipment and furniture would be grouped to the extent possible in
large packages  for bulk  procurement.  All  equipment and  furniture  to be
financed under the proposed loan would be procured under the following proce-
dure:  Contracts for bid packages exceeding US$100,000 equivalent estimated
value would be awarded on the basis of ICB. Items which cannot practically be
grouped in bid packages of more than US$100,000 equivalent estimated value
would be procured on the basis of quotations from at least three qualified
manufacturers or suppliers. Such procurement of equipment and furniture items
by means other than ICB would be subject to an aggregate value limit of US$1.5
million equivalent (corresponding to about 10% of the total estimated value of
equipment and furniture requirements, including contingency allowances).  In
the comparison of bids obtained on the basis of ICB, local manufacturers would
be allowed a margin of preference equal to the existing rate of customs duties
applicable to competing imports or 15% of the CIF price, whichever is lower.
Prior Bank review of procurement documentation and contract award recommenda-
tions would be required -for all equipment and furniture  contracts  to be
awarded on the basis of ICB.
3.24     Consultant services to be provided under project TA would be procured
in accordance with the current Bank "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants."
Purchases of instructional materials to be financed under the loan would be
made on the basis of quotations f_om at least three qualified manufacturers or
suppliers.
3.25     Accounts and Audits.  A separate project account would be established
by the Office for the project components to be implemented by that agency
(para. 3.14); the MOP component and the MPW component would be identified by
separate lines in the Goverruent budget. During negotiations, -the Government
provided assurances that:   (a) accounts for the proposed project would be
audited annually in accordance -with appropriate auditing principles by
independent auditors; and (b) that the Government would furnish to the Bank
within six months of the end of each fiscal year certified copies of the
project audit reports (para. 5.02e).
Disbursements
3.26     The proposed loan would be disbursed over a period of six and a half
years, as shown in Annex 7. Disbursements would be made on the basis of:
(a) Civil Works: 45% of total expenditures;
(b) Architectural and Engineering Services: 17Z of total expenditures;
(c)  Furniture and Equipment:  100% of foreign expenditures and 65% of
local expenditures; and
{d) Technical Assistance:



- 29 -
(i) Development of Future Training Activities and Support for
Instructor Training; 80% of total expenditures for consultant
services; and
(ii) Program in Project Preparation:  60% of total expenditures on
goods and services.
3.27     In order to expedite startup of the project, up to US$2.3 million of
retroactive   financing  is  recommended  to  cover  Phase   I  construction
expenditures made after March 31, 1984 (para. 3.17).
3.28     Implementation  Schedule.   As  shown  in  Annex  7,  the  estimated
disbursement period for the project is six and a half years. This is shorter
than the region-wide average for IBRD projects of eight years because the very
advanced state of project preparation (paras. 3.17 and 3.19) would permit
start of project construction before loan signature, and, particularly,
because the Office's streamlined administrative procedures have led to a
record of efficient project implementation in the past (paras. 3.14 and 3.15)
and are expected to expedite implementation of all phases of the proposed
project.



- 30 -
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
4.01     The proposed project is the first of a series of projects foreseen in
the area of vocational training, designed to meet the skilled manpower
requirements of the Moroccan economy in the 1990s. With the exception of the
program in project preparation, all of the proposed project components are for
skill training for the private sector. Training of this type remains very
limited in relation to national needs. The proposed project in vocational
training constitutes the first phase of a large-scale expansion of inter-
mediate level skill training capacity which is planned by the Government to
remedy these deficiences.  The vocational training expansion to be financed
under the proposed project would begin to meet the country's most conspicuous
training needs at this level. It would also constitute a key element of the
Government's new strategy to strengthen the links between the formal education
system and the job market. The proposed training investment would allow the
nation's skill training network to provide practical, job-oriented training to
a larger share of the students who leave the formal school system before
completing secondary studies. Together with other initiatives being taken by
the Government (para. 1.02), it is also expected to support the planned
expansion of industrial-sector output.
4.02     The proposed training investment would provide important benefits to
employers in the form of improved worker productivity. It would also generate
very significant benefits to training graduates.   Based on prevailing wage
differentials by skill level, the present value of benefits of the major
project component (22 VTCs) in terms of graduate earnings alone is estimated
at almost three times the present value of capital and recurrent costs of the
proposed component (para. 2.09).
4.03     Together with other planned Bank initiatives  designed to improve
investment planning, the program in project preparation to be financed under
the proposed project (para. 2.16c) is expected to lead to widespread benefits
in terms of improved project identification, preparation and appraisal.  By
improving information on the socio-economic justification of proposed proj-
ects, it is expected to lead to more rational project selection in the plan-
ning and  financial authorization processes.  By improving the planning of
project inputs, it is expected to lead to more timely implementation of
projects in all sectors.
Risks
4.04     The single risk anticipated with the proposed project is that project
implementation could be slowed by budgetary shortages in the context of the
Government's current fiscal austerity program. During the current Development
Plan (1981-85), the Government has embarked on an investment program whose
total cost significantly exceeds available resources. Project implementation
in all sectors has suffered as a result.  Ongoing Bank-financed education
projects, for example, have experienced implementation delays from this source



- 31 -
averaging about 12 months. With Bank assistance, the Government is currently
revising the budget to bring programmed investments more into line with
available budget resources. Although this exercise will involve the cancel-
lation or deferment of non-essential investments, it is expected to lead to
more timely implementation of the highest priority investments. The proposed
project, which constitutes a partial fulfillment of the Government's initial
plan for vocational training investment, is among the Government's core
program  of highest priority investments for immediate implementation.   The
investment costs of the proposed project during its first two years of
implementation represent one half of one percent of projected government
investment expenditures  in 1985 and 1986.  The project is expected  to be
self-financing with respect to recurrent costs (paras. 1.13 and 5.02d).
4.05     The question of timely availability of counterpart funds to execute
the proposed project was discussed during appraisal with high-level officials
of the Ministries of Finance, Planning and Economic Affairs.  The necessary
funds to implement the project are programmed in the latest version of the Loi
de Finances for 1984, 1985, and subsequent years. Moreover, officals of all
three ministries have recently confirmed the priority commitment of the
Government to the proposed vocational training project. This commitment has
recently been confirmed at the highest level of Government. In view of this
commitn-nt, it is foreseen that the project will be funded adequately to
ensure timely implementation.



- 32 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01     During  negotiations,  the  Government  and  the  Bank  reviewed  and
finalized terms of reference for project TA (para. 3.20).
5.02     During  negotiations,   the  Government  and  the  Office   provided
assurances that:
(a)  the following actions would be  implemented according to  terms  of
reference and a time schedule acceptable to the Bank, and that the
results of these actions would be provided to the Bank for comment by
the respective dates indicated for each:  (i) by December 31, 1985,
formulation of a strategy for the development of apprenticeship
training (paras. 2.16a(i) and 2.17a), (ii) by July 1, 1986, develop-
ment of a program on small business management training (paras.
2.16a(ii) and 2.17a), (iii) by December 31, 1985, formulation of a
strategy for vocational training coordination (paras. 2.16a(iii) and
2.17a), (iv) by December 31, 1985, carrying out of a study on
financing of vocational training (paras. 2.16a(iv) and 2.17a), (v) by
December 31, 1985, development of an effective organization and
management structure for the new Instructor Training Center (paras.
2.16b(i) and 2.17a), (vi) by December 31, 1986, introduction of
audio-visual training methods in the program of the Instructor
Training Center (paras. 2.16b(ii) and 2.17a), and (vii) by July 1,
1988, carrying out of the program in project preparation (paras.
2.16c and 2.17a);
(b) the Office would conduct an evaluation of the experiences of the two
regionally-based mobile training units within two years- after the
units are first put into use and would communicate the results of
this evaluation to the Bank promptly for review and comment (paras.
2.12 and 2.17b);
(c) the Government would examine the recommendations of the study on
coordination of vocational training (paras. 2.16a(iii), 2.17c and
5.02a(iii))  and discuss  with  the Bank  the  proposed measures  for
improved coordination of vocational training and how they should be
implemented;
(d) the Government would take appropriate measures to maintain the
self-financing of Office recurrent costs, and in particular that the
recommendations of the study on financing vocational training (para.
2.16aCiv)) would be implemented after consultation with the Bank, as
and when necessary to ensure this financial autonomy and to bring
about improved cost-sharing among the various beneficiaries of Office
training programs (paras. 1.14 and 2.17d);
(e) project accounts would be audited annually in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles by independent auditors; and the Governr-
ment would furnish to the Bank within six months of the end of each
fiscal year certified copies of the project audit reports (paras.
2.17e and 3.25); and



- 33 -
(f) prior to any disbursements of the loan against the program in project
preparation, the Government would enter into an agreement with an
organization acceptable to the Bank to maintain an appropriately
constituted program team for the program in project preparation
(paras. 2.16c, 2.17f and 3.14).
5.03     Subject to the above conditions, the project would provide a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of US$27.1 million equivalent to the Kingdom of Morocco.



- 34 -                          Annex 1
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Office Training Facilities, Enrollments and Outputs
(1983/84)
Annual
Facilities     Enrollments      Outputs
Institutes of Applied
Technology 1/                         14              3,886          1,850
Vocational Training
Centers:
Industrial 2/                        41             7,057          4,275
Commercial 2/                         6              1,098           500
Tailoring 2/                          9              1,429            865
Construction 3/                     48              5,130          8,000
Subtotal                         104             14,714         13,640
Mobile Training
Units 4/                               3                 80           200
SWRCE: Office.
1/ Two-year post-secondary program
2/ Variable program duration averaging 18 months for entrants having
completed 9 years of formal schooling.
3/ Six-month program for entrants having completed primary schooling (grade
5).
4/ Variable programs from 2 to 6 months in duration.



Annex 2
- 35 -
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Project Vocational Training Center (VTC) Specializations
(22 VTCs)
Specialization                          Section              Places
Maintenance mechanics                       5                    125
Auto mechanics                              21                  525
Auto body repair                             3                    75
Agricultural mechanics                      4                    100
Sheet metal                                 4                   100
Welding                                     15                  375
Industrial drawing                          4                    80
Architectural drawing                        2                   45
Electronics                                18                   450
Electricity                                22                   470
Automation                                   2                   50
Refrigeration/air-conditioning              4                   100
Finish carpentry                            2                    50
Carpentry                                  18                   565
Plumbing                                   18                   565
Masonry                                     4                   120
Typing                                      4                   100
Secretarial                                 1                    25
Garment Manufacturing                      13                   805
Carpet-making                               2                    50
Total                                   166                 4,775



Annex 3
- 36 -
KTNGDOM OF MOROCCO
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Office Administrative Structure
Governing Board
Director General
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
International       .I        .                Assistant to   |      Building
Cooperation          Inspection  |            the Director          Project
I   Technical   j          ~                Administration
I   Division                                 and Finance
Division             .                        Division
School Manage|-- --    Applied                  Personnel     --  Implementation|
ment Service           Technology |              Service             Service
I Enterprises |      |  Programs   |    .        Accounting          Data Process-
Service             Service                   Service             ing Service
I Research and|         Printing                 Equipment             Social
Development 1         Service    |              Service              Service
Maintenance  _
and Repairs



Unnu OrF MRS=C                    - 37 -                                   Anex 4
CATIONAL TRAMNS PR9E:'
=a'  Azcat. bs P...ec't Capuowt
CD!PF* 000)
OATIUAL                           DE iEJ!EN  fCF  PR90GM  TIX   SUPPORT FOR               "s.ical
TRAININS   IS61   ECM   NBILE       FUTIPJE        PREM        INSRCTR                Contingmits
CENRS :22   TRAIENI     TRAIN         TMIDE          LECT.IN  AND   TRINDE
CENTER      IlTS     ACMTI'JTTES    PREPARATION    CENTER       Total      Z    owwt
TRPLS. FAIITIES                           941              -         -                                          -   94512   10.0   9
S'UI EC: ROLI                             2,               -         -               -              -            -   26651   10.0  2,665
CT.Fr WUCI!AS                             4,               -         -               -              -            -   'Z:1'5    10.0   1Z317
S_TEO."E S                                13'Z43Z          -         -               -              -            -    13r433   10.0  lr343
S-r-T     CI'.IL UOS                        147.7             -         -               _              _            -  117.72   1'0.0  140,7-6
h~s:rs1   .:tzurz.es   .14,77                             -         -               -              -            -    14,776    0.0      0
FX.Etr.- .Ze                              D.1e            -         -               -              -            -   39,19      P
D-.. r...D4;    -4D                                          -7   4r'l.                                                                 47
S-:-Totall           i'7 -1E  E.            2'022                                                                   -              P.       n
i. E.'SeX.eSZ                                             -         -               -              _           -  2072        9.1  1924
Fc:tr Lt- '*-a 9lw*                          2,31            -         -              -              -            -   39.319    9.1   30742
3.AMR!=ET  FEES                             1476-                     ----   14I776"  10. 0   1i4.70
Ptssl-aI Co~~~~~tinsrries ~~1,P472              -                                        --                 1479    0.0!      0
P-:e C-1-ser 3i9 9                                        -         -               _              _           _    30    9.1    36C
Sth C -L'"!IE CNTINGENCIES              20,244           -         ---- 20,244    9.1  1.940
F:te.r. Et=                                 335                      ---                                              35       9.1     M5
C. FMrsaF- AN! EtIPIEN
FtIMIMItE                                  941           450         -                              --                  ,96!  '10.0    936
FLwL-.n  I!D LV ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ fltl    tf 
e.a...Tha~ pflf.    AND EX MsrjI 101,23                 944   1306--- 115-403   10-.0  14
Flmss:cal rZItttsr:ies                    1091,52         94    1,30,4               -                                1540    0.0        0
P.-ks =ti.-mies                          32i72           E?    1,77?2                                               3 --    ..,64    9.1  3,119
Sub-Tetal INCLL'1L'I CONINEOCIES            1.44.447      1,01!   161,111--- 1176                                                 914,9
Fcrets  Erhans                           !26474          777  '14,46                 -                                41.P714    9.   2,9
EXPERTS                                                    -         -           5Sp9             9or        1,??1   9SIM    10.0    90
S' NAS                                                                                          4               -     4.525    0.0     453
r"sm'ne. MIERI' -AS                                                          452                                -       453 1_0.0       4`5
St-Totaal T E......    ASSISSTANCE                -                     -5392                      5,97        1,79     13.051        1 .0 1,305
-           -        -             539            591                  1,30_    0.0 C     0
P;i.                                                                               69:          1 045          204     1,930.   9      175
Ma-l"'Me =IMMMIES                                   it -l"!       '1~~~~~754.  2.3177     P  -- 91!42
Fo-:o:r. E=,tzte                               -                     -5257                      4,432       1.,731    11,422    9  .1 1039
;-Z._. -.' ... P..  ie .A...   z2-r.2  _,D  ss,772                ~     ~    _    3^'    4    ..'   Zz'...
fw26,406                                                     84    1,30Lt4            52             we          179   29,099    0.0 0-
:l-r iwr: nM.5qrtro                      7t,I          10! 1,11660                               .2         2,1.77   392,34   9.  3L25
* -.cz . Et.se                            w219,47        777   14463 4                          44          -.431   245,3:!4   '.' M2y.3l
-C  .  -                                               _1.. .-                                                  ..*...7b* _ o2 .^e on,
L"6 42 9L-      34    13,304            s3o                         1. 0m
Pns  ts.c:n.~e                            74t,9S?2        9      1772             !-a1         1,045          204   751,74!   94   7.ZS
p_ _s~~~~~~~~~~~~BrF!                        !11' .i::                .1__  -62      71=           2047   !oor. E    c.ll Z.
Or5-  % EO STE                                 742 iL4 46-              -           a e"          -4cnn        ls77        rn    Y.'  -w4 '
F_.eusr. 'txse                             -:.4            77     141-            5,257'            __        1,734  215,Te    0e *
Stat&:t 25.Xww :99   :::u4                                            swZ               trqse                      ?.4 2otn    ee2



-38-                                             Annex 5
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Estimated Unit Area and Unit Capital Costs of Project Institutions
(1984 Prices in US$)
Area Per Student (m2) Estimated $ Cost Per Student Place/Housing Unit 2/
This                    Building
Type of Facility          Project    Bankwide 1/   and Site    Furniture    Equipment   Total
Academic and Communal 3/
Vocational training
center                    12.2        12.0          3,278        183        1,812      5,273
Boarding 41
Vocational training
center                     9.1        11.6          2,992        240           --      3,232
Staff Housing
Vocational training
center                   166.0       100.0         47,752         --           -      47,752
1/ Bank median (1981-83) for comarable facilities (boys' secondary vocational training centers).
2/ Unit costs exclude contingency allowances and professional fees.
3/ Includes kitchen, dining and covered areas.
4/ Excludes kitchen, dining and covered areas.



- 39 -
Annex 6
KINGDOM OF MMOCCO                                                      Page 1 of 2
VOUITIOlAL 7RAINING FROICT
STAFF APHRTSAL REPORT
Iwlementation Schedule
1984           1985             1986            1987            1968            1989      |     1990
Activity                        213    4   1  2  3   C411 2   3141 23   4112   3141112  3 4   121314
Phase I
Site Acquisition
Topographical Plans
Soil Tests
Preliminary Designs                  AMl
Final Drawings                       Rlt    2Z1
Bidding Documents                    RR( B21
Bidding b1u                                      52_
Bid Evaluation L                                      2
ContraLt Award                                   2|
Construction
Guarantee                                                                                                - - - - - - - -
Phase I!
Site Acqisition
Topographical Plans
Soil1 Tests
Selection of Consultants
Preliminary Designs
Final DrariAngs
Bidding Documnts
Bidding
Bid Evaluation
Contract Award
Construction
GuaranteeI
FURNrTURE AND EWUIPENMT
22 VTCs. Instructor Training Center
Preliminary Lists                    RN
Final Lists and Bid Documents
Bidding
Bid Evaluation
Contract Award
Manufacturing. Deliver-y and
Installation
MOBILE 7RAINING t;N1lS
Preliminary Lists
Final Lists and Bid Documents
Bidding
Bid Evaluation
Contract Award
M4anufacturing and Delivery
Guarantee
negatiatiorts                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Closing Date af 12/311901
RN - Reviewed bY mission.
- Bank review and approval.
(1) - Construction excluding electrical and mchanical.
(2) - Electrical, mechanical, carpentry.
Doc 1732!. p45



- 40 -
Anex 6
Page 2 of 2
xllmn (F mnam
SEF AP         RRAL  I
Pnr mtatio  Sdmkile
1    1984  1    1985       1 M            1987            1 I9                             1990
Acti-ity                     1  2  3  411  2           3   4  1    2   3   4  1   2  4      1           1        2     1        2  4.
7ECUCAL ASSITANCEZ
IL-wcpment of Fanci Truinir
Activities:
lx  6 ups.   lrt  seaeEces
11l Phm   t:                        .                _ _
Ilx 12 mm. conult= aexvices
vwoatll TmiCigim C=rd_atia
I x 6 mm. coamultmt ser__
Fi aizg Vwcatimial 7taiuirg
l x 6 mo. camzmjt inezvice
Preinveset Studies
24 mos. coasult s__v__e_
3Sport for Inwtar Trmmnrg
Center;
I x 6                                                    .. c.mdt  sexvices
Audio-Visua      l Metids
lx 12  2s. cm___tm  serices
ProBranin Project Primepm t1m
local TrainingSidu
9x I M. c_mjlt: serlies
Clo    Dt of 1V3119
3R -viewd by aDsi=SS
- Bank zeviwanisd approval.
(1) - Cnastructin excluing electria and  bsnical.
(2) - Electrical, yecdiial, carpaty.
Do: D3ZV, p46



Annex 7
- 41 -
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures and Disbursements
(in US$ million)
Accumulated     Undisbursed
Calendar                   Expenditures    Disbursements    Disbursements       Balance
Year       Semester          Amount          Amount           Amount           Amount
85           1                2.9             1.3               1.3            25.8
2                4.0             1.0              2.3            24.8
86           1                5.0             2.0              4.3             22.8
2                5.3             3.3              7.6            19.5
87           1                6.2             3.5              11.1            16.0
2                8.0             4.2             15.3            11.8
88           1                3.2             5.0              20.3             6.8
2                3.0             2.4             Z2.7             4.4
89           1                2.0             1.2             23.9              3.2
2                2.0             1.2             25.1             2.0
90           1                1.2             1.0             26.1              1.0
2                1.2             1.0             27.1              --
Total                        44.0            27.1



Annex 8
-42 -
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Estimated Benefit/Cost Ratio for Proposed VTC Component
According to Alternative Parameters for Discount Rate and
Skilled Wage Differential
Skilled Wage Differential
Discount Rate        $l,000         $1,718        $2,500
10%                 1.7           2.9 1/         4.2
13%                 1.1            1.9           2.8
15%                 0.7            1.2           1.7
21%                 0.6            1.0           1.5
I/ The basic case is represented by the prevailing skilled wage differential
of $1,718 (assumed constant in real terms) and a discount rate of 10%.
SOURCE: "Note on Calculation of Benefit/Cost Ratio for 22 Vocational
Training Centers (VTCs)," (Project Working Paper No. C.2).



- 43  -                                ~~~Annex I
CmeArnw.  EumcTno  tIerAT wosage   1  of  2
GYPPER ~   ~EZSMZT   EUUCATICONICrfl
ON ZW"TIONRCCUR       SU LY              SATE MOR              UNITr COST  PROCRESSIOU
GM PER  ASPZRCZNT        XMMDtTUM LITRACY PRI-VARY PRIMARY    PRIM"ARY  PEIZMARY    RATE PORO    SEQNUDARYEt            UhY S   WaDO     IGR
Busg  POIP.  CAPITA  PECENT CUP TOTAL CETRPAL ALLOCATED TO: RATr           ExNOLL. SCHOOL      STUDENT  EDUICATION  PRIMAR  TO  ENROLL.   S'TUIEIT  ENROLL.
YEAR HILLS. (055    BoaT=  To  CONER4HEIT    PR!  sec  5i    CZ)    RATIO   CYCLE              PER       AS PERCENT SEC0WTIR    RATIO       PER        RATIO
(1979) (1679)   EDWATION  EXPEHITURE              (1)        (1976)   (2)        (1)      TEAGUER  CNfPfCAPITA      CZ)        (2)      TZAflIE      CX)
SMEIDEN  AFRICA    t       (2)        (32           CA)           CS)          (6) 1  (7)1   (8)    I192                 (3n0   I     (1) 133     (22)       (33)1 (:4
AUSTRALIL          so    1t6   5.670        6.3'        14.4         -                          1032     1oo         2319                                73        33       2O.90
CANADAi    2na71  945341a'                                5*7       3le? 34'? 23m?   994        30'      300         23        39.9'?       IU            2 l                20
CCELNAN  r.A.      79    41.2  12.200       4.6          6.46       -    -    -        994       "a'    300'         -         -             onO'         "a       -        :3.t0'
KEnLIAMz.io        79    16.0  10.490       7.9          1.1        20   35   25       9 by    94         95         1o        15.3          99           2        13       12.40
NED neAAoD         go      3.2b  s,0ab    5.5"         13.4        37 31   28          qb     t00       100         24        33.6         10"          82        i5       21.50"m
suene       79      5.3  1z2,20      9.0         13.2        3      010         994     9I'M    Ion            16'      19.9         3011         I'm       :oW    34.50'?
EASIESAFIC
DWISWANA           so      0.b    72gb    6.3M          19.3        4    25   j5       3gb      9&        74         32        22.0          33"-        20        I5        .3.0
3ttIIDX           ml      4.2     235      3*51W       19.0        43   23   27      25        25         5         37        20.2          32           5'        7        1.00
cUICEIs            it      0.41    240      4.5"        25.4        40   20b  34      -         9'        65         45        14i.0         so          230       30        3.40
onuounz            RI      0.3     440      5.4         10.5        60  40...    30             32        -          A1        -             40           a        19        0.54)
ETHIOPIA           a,   '12,gb    140k    2.9'          31.7        45   25   20       53       42        30         43        19.5          435         4        &&        0.41
KVWA               79   3153        390     59"         JSo         73   Is   6      45        92        74         40        5.5          43          19        28        3.00
LLEROS             52      1.4b    435b    5.5          16.9        38   32   26       34     1342       A3         48         9.6          44          21        21        3.10
MnACASCAt          77    61.5       330     4.0"        24.0        53   28   19       50       9440      33         sgb        6.0          38          34        21        1.10b.
M14LASEI           SI       .l      230b    3.          1.4        36   6   25       25b       62       23         45         5.5          32           4        23       r).40
nADRITIUS   60      o,~~~ au .OR     6.0         31.5        39   60    7      so        67        78         22b       37.1          79          45'       23        0.40
54RTI0             s 60    g"          b    2.61.                    2   17   IL       23b      37'       42         10        :4.0p          &           &'       35        0.40
SEYOIELLES         79      0.4   3.770      5.9         22.4'       34' 33' I0          -                            25         -
SOMALIA             ml     .5       20      35          30.5        So4  444           So 5b     flI      90         2b         qrqb                                         3,00b  z  .
so   7k               1.0        -           44 39    ...    32b         "I'M      65         34        31.4          44            b       IA         :i
sUAZIAND           an      0.4      760     7.9         35.8        43   34   15                 79       50         34        .2           95          37b       la.s
TANIZM1A           60    [5.5      260      5.9         17.1       '47   10   14      76b       9gb       87         43        1.0          394          1        20        031
IICAMA             so    1_2.b    331b    -             16.1"       2314374 20b    48            54       43         34        -             17           5        23        0.40
LAIRS              75    27.       210      6.0"        22.         69   26   25      15        547       44         42'       -             Al          11'       27        3.job.
26534              so      534b             4.&50       11.1        45   21   22      &&b       95        no         45        12.9          19          It        22        3 .90
ztrnsow            SI      .7yb    7oo11   5.3          39.5        62   32.   6      44b      9g         is         39        20.0          as          II        2i       4.so
MASTERS AFRICA
BErTh              79      3.4b    3z0b    6.?'         35.0        43   21    5    111         42        Y3         44        34.0          30          33        43        I 007
CAWRMW        73      5.2      590     z.07       [3.0w        334  43'  20'e              747         s        so'       11.03'        20'         t47       26        3.159
C.A.R.        79   2.2  250   3.0"7   20.6'?                    -  -   -    -                   -               45SI7   -               -           -         -         0.70"
cIAsK              71      4.4      320     2. 4by      21.th                        35 - i     257                  77        -             -            3"       23        0.20'
CONGO              78      3.5     470      9@''        27.i'y            - -        -      -                        SObv                   -                      431I w   6.OOM"
GAWN77                0.6   3.420      3.7          q1.7       -     - -                    -         -           .4~ -                             -          9b.      Z.50w
GASSIA             77      0.4     220      3."          16 5b      44   25'  4'   0ip          407       90'        27k'    447             40          12"ur    17         -
GHANA              74    31.1      400      4.3          5:S  g4                     -           73437    -                     -       y-               31427    2         -
CUINEA             79      5:3      29     04.'         -           25'  23' 25'  20             34       36         38        2042'P        335         4        29        7.00'
IVORY WDAS?        83      52k  I.O7       . 0.0        45.0        3     6     3    34      -  60        56         43        24.5)         47          35a'7    24          .9'
LIRERI             60      1.91    520      4A          19.6        4   32324        32         %2        32        'IS        20.0          74          Uz        20        2.90
,MLI               SI      7.qb    190      4.2'        21.7'       38   21   31    0          20        642        44         5.7          I4                     3      0.90'
MAURITAN3IA        78      1.6b    32Ob    5.5          14.9        33   63   25    17b         32        60         44         2.0          30           4        25        0.37
NICER              78      32      30 ~ j?              14.4?       52    3      '    5          7        5'         4'        35.7'         40           2        24 ~   0.259
NIGERIA            77    82.6      910      4.37         9.4        -    -      -                -         -          -                        .          0        25       0,17'
SENEGAL            77      5.5     450      5.0         23.0        44 34  20         10        344b7    -           tj,3b     -             20          30        2       2.2047r
SIERR  LIrmi       77      3.4     250      444b        16.0b       -    -    -      15b        37'                  35        2501          54          15'       22       fl.40Iy
TCOW               78      2.4     400      46"~'       24.5'       30'  2' 23'  IN             74        40         54127     38.0          52          32bzy      sb       z.Gol,
UPERVOLTA          76      5.6     too      3.0'"       19.3'?      3   14   32      1- jbV              23         5347      52.5?         19          3ifl      25       41.0ff
LATrIN AHeRIZCA AMK THE CARIB8EAJ
JIM   27.3   2.210      2.7         10.9        43'  31'  le'   94           49       52         17        -             87          3         8       23.00
BAJ*AWS            79      0.2   2,770      5.7         19.1        34   34 11    93            9         97         24        -             97          75        39      -
SmAMa              75      0.2   2.610      a.5'"Y      22.1'a       3   31"  16"   9b         jo"7       *9'        277       19.9'         99'         757       2039
nOLviA             au      5.4     550      4:.1'       30.5'            --  --    43l          14T7       -         2         -             -           IS,       -       12.64W
URALIL        ~~~79   116.5   1.770    3.8          62         5     - 1         6         717        -         2'                      630         157       1U       2z.'z
CHzLE              74    1.I.90            32             0         -b  -     -     -         jJQb4y      -         3b2       -             -           ggb%r    2047      I  :.9ob'
CIILONSLA          80    2467   ,60         .3         25.0        35   20)  20    Sib         73        34         32         4.6          -           47        20       10.02'?
COSTA RtICA        80       2.t  35l04    6.4           31.1        40   27   33    90          93        77         33         5.5          77          40        27       54.00
colA               78      9.8              8 .0        11.0           -    -                  12- 96 lt"              byS4    -             95          73437    15       194.021b7
DOPINICAS RiP.    60       5.3   3.020      2.9         13.0        39   21   22    bob         50        31         59         3.2          94          30        33       16.00
ECWADO             80      8.4b  1.310    *60           34.7        45   31   16    61         [05        -          36        12.6          56          47        36      29.00
EL SALvADOX        77      4.4     640      3*447b      23.L b      1 4    N   27    42         52bMr    32          59         -41                      24kb'y    217b      7.9004
GWATEHEALA         73      1.8   1.010      1.7'?       12.fib      -    - -         -          4027y    -           35by       -69                      15bn      3947      SSo
CINYAJI            74      0.      6 30     8:lb        13.R7       -    -    --    -           994217    -          32b        -            -           5943      -         30W
HATIl              50      5.ob    230      3.4",        7.97k      45    9    6    23t         s0        20         Al        19.0         162'          4'       27       0.30
SOIIDURA           75      3.6      520     3.5wb       &4.3by      62' 15' Ito   60            59127    30'         alI4      12.5'4        68'         2'?      3t        5.00,
Jp6541C4           s0      2.1   1.10D    4.5           13.7        37  43  20    90            98        96         40         2.2          95          a3        22       3.00
15100s  60  5.5   1.6                       .7         17.0'       46   39   15    92          96        53         4          9.1          66          54        1 7      10.20
NICARAGUA          76      Z.6b   610o      3.0k"       14.0b       -     -     -    90         as'       24Z         3tb      -             -           244w      304 
PAAMA              78      1.a  1.550b    5             21.81W      42'  IS' 13    atb          954       -          isby      11.6          85'         5d'5      271W    20.40by
PAXAUATf           79      3.0   1.140      3.4"        34.2        42   17   20    34          52        32         23         3.1r         76          22        2       0.70
PewU               so    16.4   1.000       3.6         14.3        53   [5   19    80          63        56         39         9.5          *9          39        22       14.407
7313106  & TOD.   77       3.3   3.910      A.47         8.b        48   32   20    95          93        91         30        10.57        49           42        24      -
URUGUAY            76      2.9   2.500      2.5          9.4b       -         - -s'.           105kz      -          2',b             -                  6ab'      -        17.30'?
VEIDElUEIA         78    14.4   3.440       5.17        j3.91b      -     -     -    82        1oi6b                 28                                  IS-M8     I?       21.1WF



Annex 9
_ 44 _                                        Page 2 of 2
-^ 44  Z
COW_  _TIVE _u c   IMICAT _
Ns. It. 296,
ollJMI            EDornWATIC                  CWoeLr          r    R lr r ecti l
~.  ~:~;r pimccny cup             R 013 IC    KiltWI  ADULT        CWLapTKOU                                   SINITSTCOSTSE? fKOE
COP PTA             AS ECT         EXENITURES  LMRr   XVV Pt IP                P"rIRT  PRIKR        ItATnM        SS=0AT SWM             R1"R
BASE  POP. CAPITA  PERCENT GP mTOTAL C.NTRAL ALLOCATE  Tot RATE              n. S L         ET CAI1z   P30T  TO Mu.   s                     s      LL.
T    MAt HILLS. 0USS)   DOTE   TO  CGO QRET    Par  seC  NI    (Z)    RATtO   CTCLN        PEE      AS IROUNY SEGOIARE   RATIO    PFE            RAIto
(1979) (It79)   ElICATION  EXIINDITURE        (C)         (:976)   (2)        (2)    incus  cr/cFA             cv         (I) Xgasia          cv)
(1)     (2)       (3)           (a)         (C3           (6)      (7)      (4)        (9)       (10)         (11)       (12)       (33)    (14)
EASt AStIA 16l TT PACI"FC
CEMT      A     "       yg*,hb   32ob    3.4          4.3        34   3    27       pb      no       63         23        7.0 e2                  38        17       3.70
INMSUA            at   ISO.5b    520      2.1         9.3        70   24    6      32       9        61         37       11.0          74         27       20        3.70
3OV h             *2    293b  1:63b    7 .-          20.3        34   34   31      9        9        la 8       43        9.0          9          8         33      21.10
N41ATSIA S               14.2b  I ,73b    3.2        22.0        32a  37' jSg    6o         961"     97         22       12.2'         67          5        19       3.700
PARue M..         63      3.0A    320     5.4         19.0       *0   17   22      -        60       73g.       31         3.0         33         2311     21i       2.00
PNLIPTP S        79    4s.3b    6,b    2.Su          144        64   36ao-    73b          S4        0         31        7.1          3          33        36      21.00
szpCuOsz          n0      2.4   4,420     2.7         0.7         9   40   16      63       92       62         32        642          90         55       22        5.00
SOLOMM ISL.       80     0.2      460     4.2W        10.0'      41   34  20      -         60       60         26       -             I3         La       -        -
THAILAUD          so   4,,3b    723b    3.4           20.9        9   1S   13      gb       96       -          17        9.3          )9          9                 4.00
60OUTH ASIA
AMLADESN           S    9242b      90n    ,1          10.1W      51   17   20     22b       o        -          33        3.6                     1 _4     23        1.43
IU LIA            77   359.0      210     2.97        *O.9V        -          -_   30       7X       -          I L                    _          22t      -         many
NIPAL             42    13.Ob    asob   12.         -            - - -             19       70       -          38       -                        21       23        3.741
PAISTAN          71    79.7       2M      2.O`7        S.        39   26   21      24       34K      up         48        0.3          S1        2lx       17        00
EUROPE. ICODLE EST AMD NOCTl AFRICA
AinAKISTAN        77    13.3              1.7         3.7        47   19   13      12       33b0     s9         37 7     -              2          a *       by      *.w
ALGCRIA           79    18.3   1.770      1.6'        12.3       34-  26' 2ia    33         637      43a        37        7.07         334        29r      21        3.70?
RYPT       r      a I   43.o01b   36A0    3.1n        4.3        31  338  26.              S"        as        34        9.6 1. 33               3       19        MA.5
GREECE            76      9.3   4.14n     2."         10.0b      37   26   21      -        97b      -          29b       0.27         -          79k'    27T       I7T600
IRN               79    26.9      -       5.7`7   7 4.187        -    -      _     0        M0N                329       -                        " 445    24_      .a0 
1W                79    12.1   2.710      4.3* 7      4.9        -    -    -      -        100       -         28        -            -           4Y37     2Y       9.300
tCL71Da a  81    *80                      6J3v       ti .'       - -       -      93        93         *       29        -                        S1       14       II3.
JOSDbN            3I     2.2b  12nb    4.9w           10.        2 19       L a    7nb     100       6s         32        7.2          91         t2Z      23       19.0
L3JREO            79  2.3   -    -                    18.6"r  -    --   -                   94x   -             19    -               -             8   -    27T_Oe'
OOCCM             in    19.3      7U      6.3"        17.        36    4   20    2a         S&'y    13          39       19.7          e          23       21        A."
now               Az      0.b  39230      2.3"        12.7'      -    -     -      3b?      72'      65         25       -                        I6  1     14
PORTUrAL          79     9.8b  2,060      3.6         22.2       50   2    ILI    7e        97       20        129       12.8         mn          45X                3.30
ROAleA            76    22.1   2.100      3.9by      *6.2        -     -    -      96      106bo                23b                   96          $41b   I32       .
sPAIN             10    37.0 4o920        2.1        I24.87      -    ---          - _       by       _ 07b --                        -           *b        _  2-.10
STYIA             iN      6.4   1.170     *.4P       12.3 31            23   26    'J       370by    No         33b      -             6          41       21b      12ELM
TUNISIA           79      6 4   1.130     7.00        19.0       A2   39   L6      *t2      0e       60         39b      12J           30         30'      30        *a 0
TaXLcTySI 01               .7-  1.s0b    3.1          2 6.2      -     -           7- b    I1IB 9M     0        23        7.9          31         38       20       .A.70
TTIOA.R.          go     4.8      420     3.0,       12.0        90    7    7      2zb      31      1i         3)o       07.0         a3           3       20        1.10
tMMEN  P.0.3.     82      2.0   4,0b    7.6          9.7        63t  14a   9      13       01       34         23       2mo          46          17       20        2.30
239MMR PRt RETELOPINC COUNTRIESt
Nuaber of Councries:                   84             94       70   69   07     76        a        64        94        62           72          92      8U       Is
Ranipt                               C(.4-            3.7-  (19-  (7-  (s-    (a-      (15-    (C2-         (17-     (1.1-         (6         !2-       (.      (o.01-
10.0)         5.0)  94)   46)  36)    99)       2)9)                77)      07.0)          9)         4)       AN)     29.0)
ouurtluloper:                           3.0          20.8      52   35   2:      D        91       79         42       20           6s          23       23       10.0
Media.s                      4.0          13.5      43    713        52        65       60        35        12           61          25      .21       5.7
Lor:                         3.0          LO.3      37   IS   13     24.      53        35        27         7           40          23       18       2.0
Quartile De-lstlon:                     1.1            3.1    7.5  9.0  4.0   23.A      20.3     22.3        7.3      4.4          22.3       13.3      8.3        4.6
xnt                                     * 5          LGIn16 1 *6        1     53        75       40         36       16           60          31       21       4.9
Sansdaed Deflaton:                      1.9           7.4      13   1     7      30       26       25         11       13           27          23        7        7.4
4adian:                                 4.0          15.5         32    19       53       63       *1         35       12           61          25       22        3.7
SYMMOLS:                                                             s
-          D1III UOAVAILABE                                   A - DAMNI PtIOR T0 EaS  TEA                         S - %ETI OF UUCAnIO  (S1E)  yLT
HASIZTDE NIL OR IICLIGISLZ                               I - DAMN ID OR  RECENT TRA  EASE TEO                T - MME A   SAn lTSTUU   OLT
7  DAT*WI OUCSTIALcZ                                        U - CURRENT PUCE                                    I - PUILIC    UNOIRU ONLr
INCDS pATIc STUDE                                          P - CDP                                                -    1ICUS O93R.601 Sm ENTS
I - MGM SOORCE
SOdImS:                                                                                                                      Z - L1O    SiOSSE? OKI*
Cols_o I nd 2:  World RD_  Ail_  or INt  missions.
Colns 3 to 14:  IS  xlssnxs. Coveraet sources &"der Iusco Statisticsl Tearbek.
Coesrtrl  Eduestles Date ar  useful In the ev*luatte  of 'arIa  edecatixon crt_ sad a_alyl  of relative senge  of edaexttaal deneispuast bare  varo
te_es.  Roustr. - the beat  oa the pratest date, cre-uaalonl cnpsrinon sbeaI be appreocbsd with gre t c_tls.  Oeta prDxaate* Is the abswa tab!. hawa
bees collected largly by Book mnsis s ire  gowermest soures_; the r_eSier are staff satiate, or data from U_sco  EYfefrs bwt Isan  xAds to st_.imlds
defsitlos  a_4. within ldcsise to disck th         s art f ltbs dat-.  Sev_rebtesa. sch data an still isparfact Is saun! r               -  drh  Ss.  Is vetking to
leprous Cbh  prograeel y an tth  orccasin  f its oper atlai  ork.  In Om oat of chow data, tha folaing 4ual1ficactl  sh_ald be hept In sAed:
(I)  -EdAcano   a. dutSad Is the tlabia Inclds *i1 educatIon asd training, both forml sa  nass-fome!.
(2)  '7rlneq  edoc is  retai  to sadion  at lbs firit lc        l and  'g   enry' adectlen  mienr to alt ldurcato  at the sucondsy Ivsi regarldss of tCyp
(.-g., Sesr al. technical. agricultural).
(3)  ttency raese  (co:  0) ae of te  obtained ise country cenas.  Isn may couetrt_  thery are only approctlat , and It la doubtful that  s   ufewr
deflsitceo  oi -Ilter-..  has bhe  followe  cosensteetly.
(4)   Public aespuodcure ia educatlo  (cola.  sd  3) ratere to all cepital  nd recrrnent expemdterue devoted to educeine by public ad qus.i-pubidc
un1'ties.
(3)  "TnroTlsunt rstter (cole. 7. 12 sd 14) mier to schoel ypr ad are the perncstse oi eligible children enrellad fll-tisi  In the appropnLata school,
public ed priste by levl.  Tbhy are often subject to a  Ide *Argin of error In the deslosing cusrlee owing to varieties  In the accuncy orf basc
date (i.e.. y_agV-ecific posulseis. aod esrollumescs).  Enorellt fire- frequently sre hlher than thc  number of students actuslly In * chool. oar-egx          d
Cudents thse Inclusasn Le lodlceted by footnotes alo can Inflate  he rcatlon.



Annex 10
- 45                       Page I of 2
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Reports and Studies on Vocational Training
1. "M1aroc, Rdsultats du projet et recommendations en decoulant," Rapport
etabli pour le gouvernement du Maroc par l'Organisation Internationale du
Travail en tant qu'Organisation chargee de l'exdcution du projet pour le
compte du Programme des Nations Unies pour le developpement," (1982 ILO
Report on Office programs).
2.  "kingdom of Morocco, Education and Training Sector Survey: Volume V,
Technical and Vocational Training," (IBRD Education and Training Sector
Survey Report No. 4105-MOR; June 10, 1983).
3. "Morocco, Review of the Engineering Industries," (IBRD Industry Sector
Report No. 3233-MOR; November 16, 1981).
B. Documents Relating to the Project
1.  Decree from Bulletin Officiel, May 29, 1974 on creation of Office.
2. Decree from Bulletin Officiel, May 29, 1974 on adoption of vocational
training tax.
3.  "Note de Presentation du projet d'organisation administrative de1'OFPPT,"
(Note on structure and functions of the Office, no date).
4. "Presentation et Fonctionnement du Service Entretien et Reparation," (Note
on operation of Office maintenance unit, 1981).
5. "Note sur les Sessions de Perfectionnement," (Description of the upgrading
training program of the Office Departement des Entreprises, September 1,
1984).
6.  "Circulaire Relative a I'Apprentissage," (Circular on Office pilot program
of apprenticeship, no date).
7.  "Note sur les Unites Mobiles," (Note on operation of Office mobile
training units, December 1981).
8. "Structures des Professions du Secteur Industriel," (Chart on Office
modular training program for industrial specializations and attached
training profiles, no date).



Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
- 46 -
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
9. "Coat du Stagiaire Forme, Etude de Cas: CQP Ma&rif," (Case study on unit
cost of training in Office VTC at Maarif, January 1981).
10. "Evaluation du Cout du Stagiare Forme a l'OFPPT," (Study on unit cost of
training in all Office training institutions; December 1982).
11. "Organisation et Procedure d'Evaluation de la Formation Dispensee dans les
CQP," (Description of admission procedures and operation of Office VTCs,
no date).
12. Proposed Training Programs and Preliminary Estimate of Costs for 18 VTCs.
13. Equipment lists for 8 VTCs (Phase I).
14. Preinvestment Study: Workshop Layouts and Electrical Installation
Requirements for Proposed VTCs, Office Service Entretien et Reparatiou
(no date).
15. "Note sur la Formation des Formateurs," (Equipment lists and technical
assistance request for Instructor Training Center; March 1984).
16. Sample Description of Occupational Profiles and Training Programs for
Three Office VTC Specializations: Auto Mechanics, Building Construction,
and Electronics.
17. Bid Review Report and Related Documents for Construction of Eight Phase I
VTCs.
C. Selected Working Papers
1. Accommodation Schedules for 22 proposed project VTCs.
2.  Note on Calculation of Benefit/Cost Ratio for 22 Vocational Training
Centers (VTCs).
3. Projected Labor Demand by Sector and Skill Level, 1985-1995.
4. Note on Status of Preparation and Calculation of Foreign Exchange
Component.
5. Detailed Project Cost Estimates.



14'                               12                                1
MO ROCCO
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Proposed Vocotional Training Centers:
-34                    *      Phase I
o     Phase HI
Main roads
Secondary roads                                                                                                    RAB
Trac ks 
*   Airports                                                                                       CA5ABLANCA
Ports                                                                                                             si...t
Rivers                                                                               L-JA re
300 Millimetef isahYet                                                             ion
Elevations above 1000 meters
s National capitol.Provincial copitols                                                                                    A . -
Other towns and villages
-32                  --- International boundaries                                                                 rvu,to            f                 -
Internationol boundary (oproximate)                                        SAF
Indicates the territory of the
former Spanish Sahara (Western Sahara)
120  IB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
2 0        EC SC e  c   ItO            I                          E     55 A         O     UIRA To.
'0.~~~~~~~~~~~o
zc ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AOuDANNY
TIEN.             .,-C
TIZN: E-                      '
SAAR 7DS
(SPonjy
1L ~ ~        ~        ~       ~        t*-.I          



___D  18273R
'.  *         GIBRALTAR               4'                                                  SEPTEMBER 1984
S                            6~~~~~~~~~~ 
SAL
lemorA                                 ,R.b Al , io
MO.A MU-            -          I
CASABLAC. /                            ''_
/.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n
MA211Ar._:r  , - *1{ 2 / vn,'rr;rrn J " _:i}>' qMA'4E 
~~~~~~ ~~~~~to toron
a.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Mh
<   - t    ' ~~l *  - -              Zn - .-             -.
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
D; - - ---- - ;'                                                                                   .      |            |               -)
;f-d-.      . ;      .    
, /                           / ;, 1;; /    ~ Area of Map
~~~~~~--  .-. .- ..o    :w  
<                                  ;    ,   .;  ,,.,   .....   ,    I   ,.   _                       -         I~~.; ~ - ...
.I                                       -______ -                                        i          _-                                 - 






