Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
*eUM N. P-3893-MR
REPORT AMD RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$27._ -ILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
November 2, 1984
lrbk daemmtd bw a mftgcZj 4Ijs&gntk  gj NW be ued by hepj.b  mly in &e pezf,m  ofd
Xdr  O.ehI duke Its e_m.  am  mO etdmie be ikemd wto Wedi ain_ mhihmV.



KINGDOWK OF MOROCCO
CURPENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit - Dirham  (DH)
US$1.0O   DR  9.06
DR 1.00   USO.llO
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ITA        -      Institute of Applied Technology
(Institut de Technologie Appliqude)
LCB        -      Local comperit1ve bidding
MOA        -      Ministry :f Agriculture
MOE        -      Ministry o.,f National Education
*MOF       -      Ministry of Finance
MOP        -      Ministry of Planning
*YPW       -      Ministry  of  Public  Works,  Vocational  ',raining  and
Staff Trainin&
ODI        -      Office for Industrial Development
(Office pour le Developpement Industriel)
Office     -      Office of Vocational Training and Employment Promotion
(Office de la Formation Professionnelle et
de la Promotion du Travail)
TA         -      Technical assistance
UNDP       -      United Nations Development Prograume
VTC        -      Vocational Training Center
(Centre de Qaalification Professionqelle)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
VOCArIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Loan and Project Suumasy
Borrower:      The Kingdom of Morocco
Beneficiary:   The Office de la Formation Professionnelle et de la Promotion
du Travail (the Office).
Amount:        US$27.1 million equivalent, including the capitalized front-end
fee.
Terms;         17 years including 4 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.  $26.7 million of the Bank loan would be made
available to the Office on a grant basis. The Government would
bear the foreign exchange and interest rate risks on the Bank
loan.
Project
Description:   The project's objectives are to address key sector issues by
contributing   to  expanding   vocational   training   capacity
consistent with future needs for skilled manpower, improving
coordination of vocational training, assessing policy options
to assure the financial viability of such training, and helping
to  develop   appropriate   future   training   strategies   and
programs.   The  project  would  also  help  improve  project
selection and preparation in the public sector.   To achieve
these objectives, the project would comprise: a) construction,
furnishing, and equipping of 22 new industrial vocational
training  centers  throughout  the  country;  b)  equipping,
furnishing and providing technical assistance for a new
vocational Instructor Training Center; c) providing five new
mobile training units; d) studies on sector policy issues and
to develop new training programs; and e) technical assistance
for development of a national training program in project
-                     selection and preparation.  The main benefits of the project
would be the expansion of lower and middle level skill training
for the private sector, until now very limited in relation to
;                     national demand, and development of strategies for sound and
planned expansion in the future. The project would address the
training needs of secondary school leavers and support
expansion  of  industrial  sector  output.   Important  benefits
would accrue both to employers, in the form of improved worker
productivity, and trainees. The project is also expected to
lead   to  widespread   benefits   through   improved   pro,ect
preparation, selection, and appraisal in the public sector, and
to more timely project implementation in all sectors.
This document hs a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties- Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Cost
Estimates:
(us$ million)
Local  Foreign   Tota'
Vocational Training
Centers (22)                    11.68    17.47   29.15
Instructor Training
Center equipment                  .02      .07     .09
Mobile training units              .14     1.30    1.44
Technical assistance;
Studies for development oi
future training activities       .11      .47     .59
Support for Instructor
Training Center                  .04      .15     .19
Program in project
preparation                      .26      .39     .65
TOTAL BASE COST                12.26    19.85   32.11
Physical contingencies            1.22     1.99    3.21
Price contingencies               3.46     5.23    8.69
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS              16.941/  27.07   44.01 Il
Front-End Fee                               .07     .07
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED         16.94    27.14   44.08
Financing Plan;
Local  Foreign   Total
(iJSs million)
Bank                        -        27.1    27.1
UNDP                        0.2       -       0.2
Government                  16.7      -      16.7
Total                16.9      27.1    44.1
1/ Including US$ 3.31 million of indirect taxes.
Details may not add due to rounding.



- iii -
US $ Million
Estimated
Disbursements;          FY85    FY86    FY87      FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91
Annual               1.3     3.0     6.8       9.2     3.6     2.2     1.0
Cumulative           1.3     4.3    11.1    20.3    23.9    26.1    27.1
Staff Appraisal
Report:                   Report No. 5141-MOR, dated October 29, 1984.



INIERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECUMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO UST27.1 UMION
TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Loan
to the Kingdom of Morocco, for the equivalent of US$27.1 million, including
the capitalized front-end fee, to help finance a Vocational Training Project.
Tne Loan would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate. UNDP would provide $170,000 in cofinancing.
PART I - THE ECONOKY
2.       An economic report, entitled "Morocco; Priorities for Public Sector
Investment (1981-85)" (No. 4156-MOR), was issued on June 15, 1983.  Another
economic report entitled tMorocco; Industrial Incentives and Export Promotion"
was distributed to the Board on January 11, 1984.  An economic mission on
financial intermediation was in Morocco in September 1983 and its report is
expected to be issued shortly. The following section reflects the findings of
an economic updating mission that was in Morocco in July 1984. Country data
are given in Annex I.
Introduction
3.       Compared with many developing countries, Morocco is well endowed with
natural  resources.   Morocco  has  the  world's  largest  and  most  easily
recoverable phosphate reserves, which makes the phosphate sector a key export
sector. Other minerals such as iron ore, manganese, lead and zinc are also
exported, but in much smaller amounts.   Coal and hydropower plants satisfy
only a small part of the country's energy requirements, but Morocco has some
uranium and oil shale resources which could become significant energy sources
in the long term. There are moreover preliminary indications of natural gas
reserves.   Morocco also has a relatively good agricultural  potential.   In
addition, Morocco's proximity to Europe has favored trade, tourism and labor
migration with the EEC countries.
4.       During the first 15 years after independence (1956), a conservative
approach to economic policy predominated in Morocco, and GDP increased at an
average rate of 4% a year in the 1960s. A relatively weak savings effort and
conservative external borrowing policies permitted only a slow rise in the
share of resources allocated to investment.  Mokocco thus entered the 1970s
with no major financial imbalances, but a relatively limited growth capacity.



- 2-
Economic Performance in the 1970s
5.       During the mid-1970s, economic policy became more ambitious.  In
1974, with the sudden jump in phosphate prices, phosphate export earnings more
than quadrupled, and although the petroleum import bill also quadrupled, the
current  account  of  the  balance-of-payments  remained  in  surplus.   The
Government launched a massive public investment program which brought about a
significant acceleration in the rate of growth to 6.7% per year between
1973-1977.  There was  also  a  major  expansion  of expenditure  on  social
services, which have however until now been relatively inefficient in reaching
the lower income groups, particularly in the rural areas.
6.       The phosphate boom, however, was shortlived and phosphate exports
started falling ia both volume and value as early as mid-1975. Markets for
other exports as well as for tourism and labor migration were also negatively
affected  by  the world  recession.   Accelerated  investment,  rising  social
expenditures and increased defense spending in response to growing tensions in
che Western Sahara, soon created strong pressures on both the balance-of-
payments and the Government budget.  The Treasury deficit reached 17.6% of
GDP, and the current account deficit of the balance-of-payments, 16.5% of GDP
in  1977.   To  help  finance  the  gap,  Morocco  borrowed  heavily  from  the
international capital market, which led to rapid increases in external debt
and the debt service burden.
7.       In order to redress the rapidly deteriorating financial situation,
the Moroccan Government in 1978 adopted a stabilization program, with the aim
of reducing internal and external deficits to sustainable levels. The program
centered on reductions in investment outlays and stricter import controls but
was not sustained long enough and did not address the fundamental structural
weaknesses of the economy. By 1980, both fiscal and external imbalances were
again substantial: the Treasury deficit remained at about 11% of GDP and the
current account deficit of the balance-of-payments at 8% of GDP. By then, the
external debt had risen to $7 billion and the debt service ratio was 27Z of
exports of goods and services.
Recent Economic Developments
8.       GDP growth has slowed down since 1978 to 2.8% a year on average,
barely enough to keep per capita income  from falling.  Agricultural value
added, which rose rapidly in the sixties, has stagnated since the seventies.
Despite substantial public investment, value added in manufacturing also
stagnated  in  recent  years.   Construction, which  had  experienced  intense
activity during the mid-seventies, started declining steadily with the slow
down in public investment after 1977. Government services have been the main
source of growth since 1978.
9.       In 1980-82,  renewed efforts  were made  to stabilize  the Moroccan
economy witn  the help of the  IMF.  In October  1980,  the IMF approved a
three-year Extended Fund Facility (EFF) in the amount of SDR 810 million. The
EFF was suspended in 1981, however, and replaced in April 1982 by a one-year



Stand-by, which was implemented as planned, but had relatively little impact
on  Morocco's  financial  performance.   Throughout  this  period,  Morocco"s
attempts at stabilization were severely hampered by a series of external
shocks: a) the 1979 increase in oil prices which aggravated an already
substantial petroleum import bill ($1.2 billion in 1982); b) a severe drought,
which reduced agricultural output by about 20% in 1981 and led to substantial
imports of cereals; c) the rise in international interest rates which
contributed to a steep increase in debt service; and d) the international
economic recession which contributed to a 30Z decline in 1982-83 in the dollar
price of rock phosphates, as well as to a fall in workers' remittances,
Morocco's two principal sources of foreign exchange in the early 1980s.
10.      At the same  time, however expansionary  public  spending  policies
continued to be a major source of both fiscal and external imbalance.
Adoption of the 1981-85 Development Plan, which aimed at an ambitious GDP
growth  rate of 6.5% p.a.,  led  to a sharp increase.' in  public  investment
expenditures and the Treasury deficit rose from 10.7% of GDP in 1980 to 12.3%
in 1982. .1/
11.      The combined impact on the balance-of-payments of external shocks and
expansionary fiscal policies was an overall increase in the current account
deficit from t1.4 billion in 1980 to $l.9 billion in 1982 (or from 8% to 13%
of GDP). While there were some positive factors on the export side, such as
the  continued  growth  of  manufactured  exports,  the  emergence  of  some
non-traditional exports and renewed growth in the tourism sector after the
adoption of a flexible exchange rate policy in late 1980, these were more than
offset by the fall in phosphate earnings and workers' remittances and the
continued growth of petroleum and capital goods imports.
i2.      To finance its current account deficit and meet its debt amortization
payments,  Morocco  continued  to  rely  heavily  on  external  borrowing.   By
December  1983,  total  external  debt,  including  military  and  short-term
commercial  debt  but  excluding  LF  obligations,   reached  an  estimated
$12 billion.   As a result of growing debt and  the rise  in  international
interest rates, Morocco's debt service (excluding ID4F debt service) averaged
31.2 to 1.3 billion in 1980-82. The debt service ratio in 1982 rose to 35% of
exports  of  goods  and  services.   Loan  commitments  in  1980-82  averaged
$2 billion a year of which $0.9 billion from multilateral and bilateral
sources (not including grants).
The 1983 Adjustment Program
13.      In early 1983, the financial situation deteriorated rapidly and net
foreign assets declined sharply, prompting the Government to tighten import
restrictions in March.  With freely usable reserves virtually depleted, and
the high level of external debt entailing an unsustainable debt service burden
for the next few years, the Government became aware of the need to put
together a package of policies, including stabilization and structural
adjustment measures, which could warrant support from both the IMF and the
Bank, and form the basis for a debt rescheduling operation.
1/ Excluding changes in floating debt to suppliers ("Fonds rdserves").



- 4 -
14.      A program prepared in mid-1983 was supported by an IMF stand-by
arrangement covering the second half of 1983 and calendar 1984 in an amount
equivalent to SDR 300 million.   Its principal  objective was to reduce  the
current account balance-of-payments deficit from *1.9 billion in 1982 to
*1.3 billion in 1983 and $1 billion in 1984 through limits on monetary
expansion, reduction in the Treasury deficit and continued use of a flexible
exchange rate policy. Subsidized food prices were increased by 17% to 60Z and
increases were made in the prices of fertilizers, electricity, water and
petroleum products, with the result that budgetary outlays on subsidies would
be cut in half in 1983-84.  Budgetary investment appropriations were also
revised downward, substantially in line with the recommendations of the Bank
report on Priorities for Public Sector Investment, so as to limit actual
Treasury investmeat expenditures to DR 8 billion in 1983 (compared with
DR 12.5 billion in 1982). The objective of the 1983 adjustment program was to
reduce the overall Treasury deficit from DH 11.1 billion in 1982  to about
DH 8.8 billion in 1983. 1/
15.      To  reinforce  the adjustment process,   the  flexible  exchange  rate
policy initiated in 1980 was continued in 1983 with the dirham depreciated by
17% in the 12 months since August 1983.   In addition, a process  of debt
rescheduling was started in order to improve the debt profile and restructure
it in the light of the estimated resources available for debt servicing. The
Government asked for, and was granted by the Paris Club and the banks, a
rescheduling of its external public debt maturing in September 1983 - December
1984. In addition, at a meeting of donors in Paris in November 1983
additional balance-of-payments assistance of about $500 million was pledged
for 1983-84 and it was agreed that a Consultative Group for aid coordination
would be convened a year hence.
16.      Finally, along with its stabilization effort, Morocco  is making a
significant start on the structural reforms needed to restore a viable
balance-of-payments position in tFe medium term, with a package of measures to
restructure incentives in order to eliminate the bias in favor of import
substitution which has in recent years handicapped the growth of the export
sector and hampered efficient use of resources.   In January 1984, the Bank
approved a *150 million Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan (ITPA) to
support the first phase of this program, which included actions to reduce
import protection and promote exports, in particular: a continuation of the
exchange rate adjustment initiated under the LMF Stand-by, coupled with a
reduction of the special import tax; reductions in import tariffs and an
easing of quantitative import restrictions; broader access t6 duty-free inputs
for exports and the rationalization of border-tax adjustments on external
trade under the domestic sales tax; improved administrative procedures; the
elimination of export licensing in agriculture and manufacturing; improvement
of the export credit and export credit insurance systems; and a significant
reduction in the scope of price controls on manufactured goods.  Most of the
1/ Excluding changes in floating debt to suppliers ("Fonds reserves").



-5-
measures under this program have now been impLemented. The first tranche of
the Bank loan (g75 million) was drawn in June 1984, and the second tranche in
October 1984. A follow-up loan is under preparation. The second phase of the
adjustment program, expected to be implemented in 1985, would coatinue the
industrial and trade policy -reforms initiated in 1984 and would extend the
reform  program  to  the  financial sector.   Future  phases of  the adjustment
process could address further fiscal reform and initiate reforms in public
enterprises, education and in agricultural policy.
17.      The information available for 1983 and early 1984 confirms that the
Government's adjustment program has led to a considerable improvement in both
the external and fiscal accounts. The current account deficit of the balance-
of-payments was halved in 1983 to $872 million and the Treasury deficit was
reduced by about one third, from DH 11 billion to DH 8 billion or 8.5% of
GDPY.   While  the  initial  tightening  of  import  restrictions  and  public
investment cutbacks were the main factors behind the improvement in financial
performance in 1983, the depreciation of the exchange rate and measures to
encourage exports also appear to have had a positive impact on exports of both
goods  and  services,  and   import  restrictions  have  subsequently  been
substantially relaxed. Current estimates for 1984 anticipate strong growth of
earnings from manufactured exports, tourism and workers' remittances, along
with a good performance of agricultural exports and a recovery of phosphate
exports.  In the fiscal area, further progress is expected in reducing the
deficit, to about 7% of GDP, mainly as a result of economy measures in the
recurrent budget.   Imports are also rebounding, as a result of the recent
trade liberalization measures  and  the need  to replenish stocks.   However,
their growth is expected to slow down in the latter part of the year, and the
current account deficit for 1984 is expected to remain below t800 million,
after allowing for the impact of the debt rescheduling on interest payments.
As was to be expected, GDi growth slowed down to an estimated 2.2% in 1983, as
a new drought hurt agriculture and the growth of the Government sector was
constrained by lack of budgetary resources.
Medium-Term Policies and Prospects
18.      A Consultative Group meeting has been scheduled in Paris in January
1985. The Consultative Group will focus on Morocco's medium-term adjustment
policies and prospects. A joint Bank-IMF economic updating mission visited
Morocco in July to prepare a background paper which will present to the Group
a unified assessment of Morocco's current adjustment program and medium-term
outlook by the two institutions.  The mission's preliminary conclusions are
that  taedium-term  prospects  remain  precarious.   Both  the  current  account
deficit of the balance-of-payments and the fiscal deficit, at 6-7% of GDP, are
still too large to be sustainable. A fundamental stabilization effort needs
to be sustained over several years and combined with a strong program of
structural adjustment. Such a program would have as its basic aims:
1/ Relief on interest payments on external debt is estimated a. $230 million
m  1983.  The current account deficit of the balance of payments would
have been $1,100 million without debt rescheduling and the Treasury
deficit DR 8.6 billion or 9.1% of GDP.



-6-
(i) to reduce the deficit of the balance-of-payments over the short- and
medium-term through continued trade policy reforms and appropriate
development strategies in the productive sectors, particularly
agriculture and industry, that would increase production and promote
exports and efficient import substitution;
(ii)  to  improve  the  allocation  of  capital  and  the  efficiency  of
investment, both in the public sector (through appropriate changes in
investment policies) and in the private sector (through reform of the              &
protection system and of interest rate policies);
(iii) to increase the level of public sector savings through reductions in
the Treasury deficit and improvements in the efficiency of public
enterprises;
(iv) to improve the mobilization of private savings through a reform of
the financial sector involving interest rate increases, diversifi-
cation of financial instruments and greater competition in the
banking sector; and
(v) to accelerate the rate of employment creation through better manpower
planning and a revision of the protection and incentives system so as
to encourage investment in labor intensive activities.
19.   Medium-term  projections  for  Morocco  are  currently  being  revised.
Preliminary projections based on the policies outlined above bring out the
dampening effect of stabilization on growth in the short-term and the
importance of improving the efficiency of investment, domestic savings and
export incentives for higher long-term growth.  As efforts to promote exports
and increase domestic savings can be expected to bear fruit only gradually in
Morocco's circumstances, this will severely limit the level of investment that
can be financed for the next several years, under the conditions of a
constrained net amount of external financing available to Morocco, with a
resulting deflationary  impact  on  domestic  demand.   Implementation  of  the
adjustment measures, including improved export incentives would, however,
induce an expansion of exports and a gradual increase in output.
20.   In  the  medium-term,  structural  improvements  in  the  efficiency  of
resource use should induce an acceleration of economic growth, and GDP is
projected to increase at 3.6% p.a. in 1985-90.  This result would reflect a
change in the sources of growth, with the manufacturing and phosphate sectors
playing ad important role in improving the balance-of-payments.  As a result
of improved export incentives and the revival of foreign markets, exports of
manufactured products (including phosphate derivatives) would grow at 12%
p.a. Exports of rock phosphates and phosphate derivatives would recover from
their present low level and grow at about 9% p.a. in 1985-90.  The overall
growth rate of Morocco's exports of goods and nonfactor services in this
scenario would accelerate to about 7% p.a. in constant prices in 1985-90.
With respect to imports, the change in the structure of incentives in
conjunction with the depreciation of the dirham would improve the efficiency



-7-
of import substitution and reduce the reliance on imported inputs.  Overall,
import growth of goods and nonfactor services in this scenario would be
limited to 5% p.a. during 1985-90.
21.   Given  the  strong  constraints  on  the  resources  available,  gross
investment is projected to decline in the short-term from 23% of GDP in 1980
to about 16% of GDP in 1986-90. It is assumed that the Government would srart
fewer  large  capital-intensive  projects  and  restrict  the  allocation  of
investments to priority subsectors so as to improve the sectoral allocation
and the efficiency of investment.  Priority is to be given to projects that
are export oriented, less capital intensive and which use a greater proportion
of domestic resources.   In addition,  particular attention would have  to be
paid by the Government to manpower planning and to the employment effect of
investments in order to prevent unemployment from rising to excessive levels.
22.   An essential aim of the adjustment process would also be an increase in
domestic savings. As a consequence of policies aiming at a reduction in the
Treasury deficit and at an improvement in public enterprises efficiency,
public  savings  are  projected  to  increase  significantly.    In  addition,
improvements in the mobilization of private savings would also take place
through interest rate increases and reform of the financial sector, so that
the overall domestic savings rate in this scenario would rise from about 8% in
1981-82 to about 13% in 1990.
23.     The  acceleration  of  export  growth  relative  to  import  growth  in
conjunction with an increase in the savings ratio relative to the investment
ratio would be compatible with a stabilization of the current account deficit
at a level of $700 to 800 million a year in 1985-90.  In relation to GDP, the
current account deficit in this scenario drops to about 3% by 1990.  This
would  be  consistent,  under  the  above  assumptions,  with  a  GDP  growth
accelerating from 2.6% in 1985  to 3.9% in  1990.   However,  gross  external
borrowings in this scenario are projected to increase from 92.2 billion in
1985 to g2.8 billion in 1990 as repayments of debts rescheduled in 1983 or
contracted  in the early 1980's  fall due.   The debt service ratio  in these
projections would remain high  (40-45%)  in the next  few years,  starting to
decline below 35% in 1990.
PART II - OTHER BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO_/
24.   Bank and IDA lending to Morocco has supported 65 projects, financing a
total of ¢2,453 million. (net of cancellations), of which $1,630 million has
been lent since the beginning of FY78.  IDA credits, totalling $51 million,
have been made available for five projects and a Third Window loan for
t25 million has been made for an education project. IFC investments have
amounted to g99.3 million (t54.6 million after cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales).   Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans
and IDA credits, and of IFC investments, as of June 30, 1984.
1/ Part II is essentially the same as Part IV in the Industrial and Trade
Policy Adjustment Loan (Report No. P-3707-MHOR of January 6, 1984).



- 8 -
25.      Until  recently,  performance   in   project  execution  has   been
satisfactory overall, although in some cases management problems have caused
delays  in  project  implementation,  and  in  others  insufficient  tariff
adjustments have affected project entities' financial performance. However,
during 1983, as budgetary coastraints became more severe, projects relying on
the Government budget for a substantial part of financing have been seriously
delayed because of inadequate budgetary allocations. The appreciation of the
dollar vis-A-vis the dirham in recent years has reduced considerably
reimbursable expenses in dollar terms, thus lowering disbursements vis-a-vis
appraisal  estimates.   The  ratio  of  disbursements  to  appraisal  estimates
averaged 422 over the year preceding March 31, 1984, low in comparison to
other countries in the region.
26.      The objectives of Bank Group activities in Morocco are to support (a)
investments  ane   policy  reforms  aimed   at   structural  adjustment   and
strengthening the balance of payments; (b) measures to reduce the Treasury
deficit; and Cc) efforts to redress poverty and improve income distribution,
particularly  through  lowering  the unit  costs  for  the delivery  of basic
services,  in order  to  increase access  by  lower-income  groups.   Important
structural reforms must be undertaken in the coming years, in order to return
to a pa.. of reasonable economic growth compatible with a sustainable external
payments position. A major objective of Bank economic and sector work is to
provide tne analytical basis for the development of specific proposals for
structural reform, which in several cases may later be supported by Bank
lending. The Government has requested that, in addition to ongoing work on
the public investment program, the Bank assist in developing reform proposals
relating to the financial sector (for which a mission visited Morocco in
September 1983), public enterprises (for which a first economic mission was
undertaken in spring 1984), and the education and agricultural sectors.
Because severe budgetary constraints are likely to persist over the
medium-tern, projects now under preparation are being designed to minimize
their reliance on budgetary funds.
27.      Agriculture continues to represent the most important sector in Bank
lending  for  Morocco.   Past  Bank  lending  has  primarily  supported  rural
development or irrigation projects focusing on particular geographical
regions, as well as a highly successful agricultural credit program.  In the
future, increased attention will be given to agricultural support services at
the national level, which are essential for backstopping regional development
projects and would be more appropriate vehicles for addressing sectoral policy
issues.  Projects are under preparation in agricultural inputs distribution,
research and extension services, cereals storage and marketing and irrigation
management.  In view of limited budgetary resources, special attention would
be paid to maximizing non-budgetary financing and improving cost recovery.
Sector work on agricultural incentives - fiscal, financial, pricing and
institutional policies - is expected to provide recommendations on structural
reforms which could lay the basis for an agriculture sector policy loan.
28.      Energy  and  mining.   The  Government  has  given  high  priority  to
reducing the oil import bill, a major factor in the current account deficit,
through development of doaestic energy supplies. The Bank has supported this



- 9 -
effort through loans for the exploration and appraisal of petroleum (primarily
natural gas) and oil shale resources as well as for power generation and
transmission.   Future projects would assist in the development of domestic
energy supplies, including gas, coal and hydropower. Through these projects
as well as in our sectoral policy dialogue, efficiency in energy development
b      and use would be promoted through attention to pricing, cost recovery and
management issues.  A pilot project to support small-scale, export-oriented
mining activities in a remote, low-income region will be monitored with a view
to its possible extension.
29.      Bank Lending for infrastructure and utilities has helped to build a
number of tecnnically competent agencies in the fields of road transportation,
electricity, water supply, housing finance, and community infrastructure
finance, as vell as to expand the provision of essential services.  Future
projects will place greater emphasis on improving the productivity and
efficiency  of  existing  infrastructure  through  improved  financial  and
management performance. Mobilization of private and non-budgetary financing
as well as improved cost recovery in these subsectors through tariffs should
help reduce the Treasury deficit. In addition to continuing support for the
above-mentioned subsectors, projects are under preparation for ports, sewerage
and telecomiunications.
30.      Industrial  development  in  Morocco  has  been  supported  primarily
througn strengthening the financial and institutional resources of the Banque
Nationale de Developpement Economique (BNDE), the major source of industrial
medium-term credit.   In addition,  policy changes were introduced  to widen
access to credit by small-scale labor-intensive industries.  Other projects
focused on phosphate processing and cement production. The Bank's efforts are
now focused  on  the development  and  implementation of mediumrterm  policy
reforms aimed at encouraging exports and improving incentives to domestic
production.  The first phase of such reforms is supported by the recently
approved Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment (ITPA) loan, and further
sectoral adjustment lending is likely in industry to support subsequent phases
of the medium-term ITPA program adopted by the Government.
31.      Education, health and urban development projects will increasingly
concentrate on lowering unit costs in order to widen the access by low-income
groups. Policy dialogue in these sectors continues to encourage the shift
away from capital-intensive investments benefitting limited clientele and the
development of more cost-effective delivery systems for basic services. While
previous Bank-financed projects have supported technical education, rural
primary education and improved teacher training, these should be complemented
by efforts to expand basic education and skill training, as well as
restructuring of the formal education system, which has represented a major
drain on the  recurrent budget.   The  proposed  Vocational Training project
represents the first step in this direction.  A project to test new health
care delivery systems in order to improve basic health services in rural areas
is under preparation. Finally, the experience of projects in urban upgradi_ag
will be continued and expanded, with increased efforts to mobilize private
financing in order to reduce budgetary costs.



- 10 -
PART III - SECTORAL BACKGROUND
Manpower Demand
32.      Morocco's labor force is growing more rapidly than in any previous
pe-iod.   The  total  labor  force  increased  from  3.8 million  in  1971  to
6.0 million in 1982 (at 4% annually); this increase reflects both the return
of Moroccan migrant labor from Eurove and higher labor-force participation,
particularly for females, as vell as continuing high population growth (3.0%
p.a.). The labor-force structure has continued to evolve towards activities
requiring higher skill levels. Data from the 1982 census record a marked
decline i: agricultural employment, from 53.7Z in 1971 to 39.2Z in 1982.
Employment ia the industry and construction sectors increased most rapidly, at
7.3% p.a. and 7.9Z p.a. These sectors now represent 14.5% and 8.3Z of total
employment, respectively.   Civil service employment almost doubled  in  this
period  and  currently  accounts  for  9.9%  of  total  employment.   With  the
exception of civil service employment, which is nearing saturation, the growth
trend  in relatively skill-intensive sectors  is likely  to continue  in  the
medium- to long-term.  This is particularly true of the industrial sector,
where shortages of skilled manpower have constrained output growth  in the
past.  The Government assigns a high priority to industrial growth, and is
undertaking a series of reform measures, with Bank support, to introduce
structural changes in the system of incentives, so as to encourage
manufactared exports, lower manufacturing costs, and restore dynamism to
industrial growth. One likely consequence of these measures is faster growth
of industrial employment; such growth will generate significant additional
demands for skilled manpower.
33.      Morocco's  vocational  training  capacity  is  seriously  short  of
prospective needs. The demand for skilled manpower is projected to grow by
about 105,000 per year between 1985 and 1995, with the largest share of the
increase occuring  in  the  industrial  -zetor.   The  total annual  output  of
existing training programs during that period would be less than 25,000. The
most conspicuous shortage of skilled manpower is projected in industry/mining/
utilities, where projected annual demand is expected to exceed supply by close
to 34,000.
Structure of Vocational Training
34.      Until  the  mid-1960s  the  Ministry  of  National  Education's  (MOE)
colleges of vocational training were the major source of skilled worker
training. These colleges were dissolved in 1968, giving way to the present
structure, in which various operdting ministries are responsible for training
technicians and skilled labor for their own needs.   Several ministries have
gradually expanded their training activities to cover needs in their sectors,
particularly at the technician level. In the private sector, apprenticeship
programs are few, and pre-service skill training is extremely limited and
largely confined to commercial specializations.
35.      The  sole  public  institution  which  provides  vocational  training
specifically to meet the needs of the private sector is the Office of
Vocational Training and Employment Promotion (l'Office de la Formation



- 11 -
Professionnelle et de la Promotion du Travail).  The Office was created in
1975, as a financially autonomous agency under the Ministry of Labor, in order
to train manpower for the private sector, adapt such training to the needs of
tne labor market, and promote the upgrading of workers.  In 1981, the Office
was placed under the administrative aegis of the Ministry of Planning (MOP) as
part of efforts to improve manpower planning. Hovever, the Government has now
decided to strengthen the outreach of the Office.  In mid-1984, the Office was
transferred to the Ministry of Public Works, now designated Ministry of Public
Works,  Vocational  Training and Staff Training  (ME-i).  As such,  it has  a
stronger physical implementation capability aad field presence.
36.      Tne Office's administrative structure and  its methods  of  program
preparation  contribute  to  close  links  with  the  labor  marLcet.   It  is
administered by a tripartite Administrative Council, presided over by the
Minister of Public Works, Vocational Training and Staff Training, with members
drawn from different ministries, representatives of employers, and trade
unions. An important li-k to employers is provided by the Office's network of
Regional Training Councils. For each vocational training center or for each
city (where there is more than one center in the same city), a Regional
Training Council chaired by a local employer participates in decisions
concerning labor market assessments, on-the-job training, student selection,
adaptation of training  programs,  and  placement  of graduates.   The  Office
itself is organized around two divisions - Technical, and Administration and
Finance.  Of its approximately 1,500 employees, about two-thirds are teachers
or instructors.
37.      Tne  Office  offers  pre-employment  programs  for  semi-skilled  and
skilled workers,  and  technicians,  covering  several  specializations  in  the
industrial,  construction,  and  commercial  sectors,  as  well  as  in-service
training  programs  covering  correspondence  courses,  functional  training,
seminars and courses to upgrade technical skills.   In addition,  the Office
develops programs and provides training under contract in response to specific
requests  from private  enterprises.   Its  facilities  include  41  Vocational
Training Centers (VTCs - Centres de Qualification Professionnelle) for skilled
worker training, 14 Institutes of Applied Technology (ITAs) for post-secondary
technician and instructor training, and three mobile units for variable-format
training in areas of the country not served by other tr.;ning facilities. Of
the   Office's   activities,   the   pre-employment   tiaining   programs   are
quantitatively the most important, and in particular the 18-month skill
training offered in the VTCs to graduates of lower secondary schooling.  In
1983-84, the VTCs accoucted for about 14,700 enrollments, of which over 90% in
industrial and construction specializations, and the ITAs for about 3,900.
The Office's programs are generally of high quality, and are efficiently
managed.  The number of applicants to skilled worker courses is far higher
(five times) than the number of available places. The drop-out rate of VTC
trainees is low, at below 10%.  Females account for 6-7% of enrollments in
industrial and construction specializations, and female enrollment is rising.
Available information indicates that job placement of Office graduates is
satisfactory.



- 12 -
Issues in Vocational Training
38.      The  main  issues  in  vocational  training  are  recognized  by  the
Government, and are the basis of a constructive dialogue with the Bank. They
are: a) tow to achieve a rapid expansion of vocational training capacity, in
the medium-term, to meet identified needs for skilled manpower; b) how to
improve the coordination of vocational training and related technical training
among tne various ministries and agencies involved; and c) how to assure the
long-term financial viabi'lity of an expanded vocational training system
through mobilizing additional resources, improving efficiency in distribution
of the financial burden between the private and public sectors and reducing
unit costs of vocational training, while providing incentives to the private
sector to undertake more such training.
39.      Expansion  of  Vocational  Training   Capacity.    Past  Government
investments have concentrated on rapidly expanding formal education and on.
producing higher-level technicians and engineers, while neglecting middle-
Level  skill training relevant to the private sector.  Following the Bank's
Survey of the Education and Training Sector in 1981, the Government has
acknowledged the need for a reorientation of emphasis, through slowing growth
of higher education and expanding capacity for skill training to meet private
sector manpower needs. The Government has stressed at the highest level the
priority it attaches to vocational training, and plans a major increase of
capacity in the medium- to long-term. As a first step in this expansion, the
proposed project would contribute to meeting the expected demand for skilled
manpower.
40.      Improved Coordination of Vocational Training.  The planned expansion
of vocational training needs to be carried out in the context of improved
coordination of training efforts among the various public and private agencies
currently  involved.   Effective  coordination  and  clear delineation  of  the
training responsibilities of each agency are necessary to assure coherence of
vocational   training,   eliminate  duplication  of  effort,   fill   lacunae,
standardize the content of training programs and trade standards, and, most
importantly, to develop a trade testing and certification service to help
employers judge the competence of job candidates.  In 1978, the Government
established a Permanent Commission for Vocational Training, responsible for
coordination. Although the Commission has done useful work on standardizing
entrance requirements and training duration and in collecting information on
available training facilities, it has had little impact on actual coordination
and rationalization of training.  The Government has agreed to formulate a
strategy, in the context of the proposed project, to develop and implement
effective coordination of vocational training (para. 57).
41.      Assuring Financial Viability of Vocational Training.   The Office's
capital costs are covered by budgetary transfers, but so far its recurrent
expenses have been entirely met from the proceeds of a UZ salary tax,
collected  from  all  private  sector  employers  by  the  Social  Security
Administration (Caisse de Securite  Sociale).  In recent years (1981-83) the
Office's recurrent costs grew by 11% annually, while tax revenues increased by
14%. As a result, the Office has been able to contribute to investment from
surplus tax funds.  However, although the Office's financial resources are



- 13 -
sufficient to meet the recurrent budgetary needs of the proposed project, they
are aL. likely to be adequate to support the major expansion of training
capacity  foreseen  in  the  longer  term.   A  related  issue  concerns  the
distribution of the financial burden between the public and private sectors.
The private sector is the main beneficiary and source of financing (through
the vocational  training levy)  for Office  training programs.   However,  the
public sector also contributes to financing through budgetary transfers for
Office investments, and some public enterprises benefit from the training of
their  staff  in Office  programs.   To maximize  the  efficiency  of  resource
allocation for vocational training, contributions to training costs by the
public and private sectors should be commensurate with the benefits which
accrue  to each.  At the same time, the system of financing should provide
incentives to the private sector to undertake more vocational training. Under
the proposed project, the Government will examine policy options to address
the various issues related to financing vocational training (para. 58).
42.      In the long-term,  the financial viability  of vocational  training
commensurate with needs will require the introduction of shorter, more
flexible  training  programs  with  lower  unit  costs  to  complement  the
conventional, pre-service programs through which most vocational training is
now provided.   One option is the greater use of mobile units  to provide
shorter, variable format training in response to specific needs in areas where
construction of a VTC is not justified (paras. 54 and 55). Another promising
format is apprenticeship training. Apprenticeship training could make a much
greater contribution to cost-effective skill formation than it is doing now,
but it is currently limited to a pilot program being conducted in the
Casablanca area by the Office and a few private sector programs.   The main
reasons why apprenticeship training has failed to develop are the lack of
trade certification which would help employers judge the level of skills
acquired through such training, and particularly, the lack of a legal code
establishing the mutual rights and obligations of apprentices and employers.
Under the project, the Office will formulate a strategy for the development of
apprenticeship training (para. 59).
Government Policies and Priorities in Vocational Training
43.      Government manpower development policy has until recently focused on
expanding formal education and replacing foreign teaching and technical staff
with nationals.   Evidence of increasing unemployment and skill shortages in
the 1970s led the Government to address manpower issues related to training
more specifically in the 1981-85 Development Plan.  Despite recent budgetary
constraints, expansion of vocational training capacity remains a high
Government priority. This commitment has been reinforced by a new Government
awareness of the financial unsustainability of continuing to offer higher
education indiscriminately to students leaving an expanding school system, by
evidence of skill constraints in manufacturing, and by increasing unemployment
caused by stabilization of employment in the administration and by the
irrelevance  of   liberal   arts   specializations   to  skill-specific   jobs.
Accordingly, the Government intends to expand existing middle and lower level
programs to meet private sector demand, to develop new, flexible, training
approaches which can be implemented on a large scale at low unit costs and to
improve the links between formal schooling, vocational training, and the job
market.



- 14 -
Bank Role in the Sector and Training Components in Previous Projects
44.      The Bank has been active in the education/training sector since 1963,
supporting five projects. The bulk of Bank lending has been ia support of the
formal   education   system,   particularly   of   technical   and   engineering
specializations, and has attempted to improve efficiency of education through
curriculum  reform,   upgrading   teacher   skills,   ano  improving   teaching
materials. Vocational training was not given much attention by the Government
until recently.  The focus of the dialogue with the Government is now on
expanding access to basic education and skill training, while supporting
efforts to restructure the education system, in order to improve its
effectiveness  through  appropriate  policy  reform.   The  proposed  project
reflects this strategy by supporting middle and lower level skill training and
helping  the  Government  address  the  key  issues  of  assuring  effective
coordination of vocational training and long-term financial viabili.y of the
training effort.
45.      The first three Bank-supported education projects included training
components.  Although several of these were subsequently deleted  from the
projects due to changes in Government policy affecting some of the training
institutions  and  to  Government  decisions  to  implement  others  using  the
Government's   own   resources,   the   remaining   training   components   were
successfully implemented.  The First Education Project  (Cr. 79-MOR) was to
have included 21 secondary schools with vocational specializations. Three of
these schools were deleted from the project in 1968, and the rest were
converted to general education facilities as a result of the Government's
decision to suspend all employment-oriented vocational education in Ministry
of  Education  (MOE)  secondary schools.   The OED audit report  (PPAR 1637;
June 17, 1977) noted that "in view of the rapidly growing need for high-level
manpower, the project was still justified (as a source of inputs for
post-secondary  education)  even  after  the  elimination  of  the  short,
vocationally  oriented  terminal  courses".   The  Second  Education  Project
(Cr. 266-MOR) was to have provided for the construction and equipping of a
number of general education MOE institutions, and four training institutions:
two Ministry of Labor vocational training centers, a new Department of
Veterinary Medicine for the existing Hassan II Institute of Agronomy, and a
new School of Forestry.  Shortly after effectiveness,  IDA deleted from the
project the first three of these institutions because construction of the
vocational training centers had begun in advance of IDA contract approval, and
because the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) was unwilling to modify designs of
the Department of Veterinary Medicine as IDA requested.  The Royal School of
Fcrestry was satisfactorily completed (PPAR-4545, June 14, 1983).  The Third
Ecucat:ion Project (Ln. 1220-T-MOR) included, apart from general education
in tit.utions to be implemented by the MOE, several training components;  a
Rural Development and Extension Training Center to be implemented by the MOA,
? Hecel Training School and four Hotel Training Centers to be implemented by
the Xinistry of Tourism, a College of Public Health and three paramedical
training centers to be implemented by the Ministry of Health.  Implementation
of these training components was seriously delayed by inadequate supervision
by the ministries concerned. As a result of the delays, three hotel training



- 15 -
centers and the paramedical training centers were deleted from the project by
mutual agreement between the Government and the Bank.  All but one of the
facilities deleted from the proiect are being implemented by the Government
with its own resources.   Implementation of ongoing education projects has
suffered from Government budgetary constraints, as have projects in all
sectors, and disbursement levels have also been affected by the appreciation
of the dollar vis-a-vis the dirham (para. 25).
46.      The experience with past Bank projects indicates the importance of;
a)   ensuring  complete  preparation  of  project  components  before  Board
Presentation; b)  concentrating project components  in a single agency with
good implementation capability; and c) close and continuous monitoring of
technical assistance implementation.  The design of the proposed project is
consistent with these conclusions.
Project Preparation, Appraisal and Selection
47.      Training of staff in the technical ministries and the Ministries of
Finance and Planning in project preparation and appraisal techniques is of the
highest priority in Morocco at this time.  In view of financial constraints,
it is critical to improve the Government's capability for planning, budgeting
and economic analysis so that investments can be systematically compared and
ranked, and scarce budgetary resources can be carefully directed to priority
activities. While the technical quality of project design is generally good,
investment  planning  and  economic  analysis  are  relatively  weak.   Initial
preparation of investment projects is often not sufficient to permit
quantification of costs and benefits. The choice of technique is frequently
not examined or compared to alternatives so that the most cost-effective
approach is selected.  Even where technical feasibility studies are of good
quality, projects are not evaluated and ranked according to economic
criteria. The Government is aware of this issue, and intends to improve the
efficiency  of  public  investments  by  requiring  more  rigorous  project
preparation and appraisal, including economic analysis of project costs and
benefits.   An important element  in this effort would be  the provision of
training for officials in project preparation and selection techniques.  The
project would support the development of a national training program in this
regard (para. 62).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
48.      The proposed project was  prepared by the Office  and  the MOP  in
consultation with Bank missions, and appraised in March 1984.  Negotiations
were held in Washington in August 1984.  Ms. El Aoufi of the Ministry of
Economic Affairs  led the Moroccan delegation.   The Staff Appraisal  Report
(No. 5141-MOR, of October 29, 1984) is being distributed separately.  Special
conditions of the loan are summarized in Annex 1II, and map no. 18273
(attached) shows the location of project activities.



- 16 -
Project Objectives and Description
49.      The project would focus on the key sector issues by (i) assisting the
Government in expanding and improving vocational training capacity to meet the
country's needs for skilled manpower; (ii) improving vocational training
coordination; (iii) assessing policy options to assure the financial viability
of vocational training; and (iv) helping ta develop a strategy and programs
for the future expansion of middle and lower-level training. In addition, the
project would also help improve project selection and preparation in the
public sector. To achieve these objectives, the project would comprise; a)
construction, furnishing, and equipping of 22 new VTCs throughout the country
as part of the Office skill training network;   b) equipment and technical
assistance for the new Instructor Training Center for the Office in
Casablanca, which is nearing completion; c) five new mobile training units for
the Office; d) studies to; (i) improve training coordination; (ii) formulate
policy recommendations to ensure long-term financial viability of training;
(iii) evolve a strategy for encouraging apprenticeship training; (iv) develop
small business management training; and (v) prepare future vocational training
project components; and e) support for the development of a national training
program in project preparation and selection for Government officials.
Expansion of the VTC Network of the Office
50.      This  component  would  finance  the  construction,  equipping  and
furnishing of 22 new VTCs to supplement the 41 now in operation. The new VTCs
would create 4,775 new training places, expanding existing VTC capacity by
68%. They would offer a total of 20 skills, selected on the basis of existing
training needs, capacity, and planned indastrial development in each region.
The locations of the new VTCs were selected by the Office in consultation with
local officials and the Regional Training Councils (para. 36), on the basis of
the most conspicuous training needs, and would ensure a wide- regional
distribution of middle level skill training.
51.      Pre-service skill training in the new VTCs would be through the same
modular programs ranging from 6 months to 2 years, now successfully in
operation in existing industrial VTCs. Entrants to these programs would have
completed the ninth grade, and passed a general proficiency test.  Successful
completion of training would lead to skilled worker certification in the area
of specialization. The expected percentage of female students in the project
VTCs is 15%, double current rates. Projected output of the new VTCs is 2,200
per year; the dropout rate, as in existing VTCs is expected to be less than
10%.   Of  the  total enrollments  in the new VTCs,  70Z are expected  to be
industrial specializations, 27% in construction skill programs, and 3% in
commercial specializations.
52.      As in the existing VTCs, the overall utilization of the project VTCs
is expected  to be very high, between 802 and 95%.  They would offer  two
shifts;   a main day shift for pre-service skills training, and an evening
shift for in-service up-grading training for workers in the vicinity of the
respective  centers.   In conformity with national  practice,  simple  housing
would be provided for the director and custodian of each VTC.  In addition,



- 17 -
boarding faciLities would be provided for 802 of the students in eight of the
new VTCs, whose locations are in areas of highly dispersed population, with
very limited potential either for commuting or boarding by students in nearby
private housing.  A total of 225 professional/technical staff including 176
instructors (an average of eight for each VTC), and 161 service staff would be
required for the project VTCs.  These instructors will be recruited, as for
the existing VTCs, from the graduates of post-secondary technician programs in
its ITAs. An ample supply of adequately trained instructors is available from
this source.
New Instructor Training Center of the Office.
53.      To train vocational training instructors for its VTCs,  the Office
selects the leading graduates of the two-year post-secondary technician
courses in the relevant specializations in the ITAs, and provides them a
subsequent year of pedagogical training, which includes student instructor
work in the VTCs. This pedagogical training has so far been provided in the
ITAs, but to improve the quality of such training through the use of specially
designed facilities, audio-visual methods, and adequate library facilities, a
new Instructor Training Center is being constructed as an extension to the
Office's ITA at Casablanca, which offers training in building and construction
specializations.  The new Center is also expected to contribute to improved
teaching quality in the ITAs where such training is currently provided by
reducing classroom congestion.  The Center (whose construction is financed by
the Government) includes classrooms, boarding facilities for 50 student
instructors, a library, and an audio-visual section.  The Center's capacity
will be 60 student insLructors per year, who would be obliged to serve the
Office  for eight years upon completion of the program.   In addition,  the
Center will offer in-service up-grading and refresher courses of varying
duration during weekends,  evenings,  and vacation  periods.   The  Center  is
expected to be completed by July 1985 and will be the first such specialized
institution  in Morocco.   The project will  provide  furniture,  audio-visual
equipment, and books for the Center and in addition, technical assistance in
two vital areas;  i) organization and management of instructor training (the
services of an expert for six months); and ii) introduction of audio-visual
methods in the training program (12 man-months of consultant services). The
Office will exchange views with the Bank on the new organization and
management structure for the Center by December 31, 1985 (Project Agreement,
Section 2.03 (c)), and on the introduction of the new audio-visual methods
into the Center's training program, by December 31, 1986 (Project Agreement,
Section 2.03 Cd)).
Mobile Training Units
54.      The Office currently has three mobile training units.  The project
would provide  five additional  units - three of  them to be based  in and
operated from the Office central facilities in Casablanca, like the existing
units; the two others would be regionally based and operated from the VTCs in
Fes and Agadir.   The main utility of mobile units is in providing needed
training in remote areas not otherwise served and for which the construction
of a VTC would not be justified; to date the three available mobile units have



- 18 -
trained over 1,700 people in agricultural and automobile mechanics in rural
areas. The mobile units provide on-site variable-format training in response
to specific requests from local officials, after a survey of training needs.
The flexibility of the mobile units may make them a useful tool for expanding
the delivery of vocational training throughout the country, and two different
approaches will  be  tested under  the project.   The existing  units  are  in
virtually continuous use and have been fully scheduled for the next two years.
55.      The  three new centrally based units will have 20 training places
each, and will specialize, one each, in radio and television repair,
electricity,  and carpentry/cabinet making.   The two regionally based units
will  have  a  capacity  of  40  places  each,   and  will  offer  several
specializations, such as agricultural and automobile mechanics, welding and
sheet metal work, electrical trades, carpentry and cabinet making, and
plumbing. Like the three units now in operation, the five new ones will offer
three types of programs:  a) an introductory course of 6 - 10 weeks, aiming at
literate candidates, and providing training for specific, simple operations,
equipment maintenance and repair; b) a four to six month program addressed to
primary school graduates, imparting basic technical knowledge, and leading to
a certificate of skill training; and c) complementary and up-grading training
for employed candidates, of variable duration.  The Office would conduct an
evaluation of the two regionally based units within two years after they are
first put into use, with a view to drawing conclusions useful for future
expansion and would promptly communicate the results to the Bank for review
and comment (Project Agreement, Section 2.03 (e)).
Studies and New Training Programs
56.      The project will  support  studies  which  would address  key  policy
issues in vocational training and lay the basis for the possible major
expansion of vocational training in Morocco in the future.
57.      Coordination  of  Vocational  Training.   In  order  to  rationali-,
training  expansion,  and  improve  linkages  to  identified  manpower  necas
(para. 40), the MPW would develop a strategy and propose mechanisms fcr
coordinating training efforts among the various agencies currently involved,
with the assistance of a consultant for 6 months. An on-going manpower study
carried out by the MOP is expected to provide basic data useful for this
task. Following this analysis, the Government would formulate recommendations
to improve coordination of vocational training.  These recommendations would
be provided to the Bank for review and comment by December 31,  1985.  The
Government would discuss with the Bank the proposed measures and how they
would be implemented (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03 (a)).
58.      Financial Policy.   The Government will  examine appropriate  policy
measures to ensure adequate financing of vocational training in the future, in
particular the continued self-financing of Office recurrent costs, as well as
to promote the most efficient and equitable distribution of the financial
burden for training between the private and public sectors (para. 41). Under
the project, the services of an expert would be provided for 6 months to
assist the MPW in this analysis.  Possible measures to be examined include:



- 19 -
a) raising the salary tax rate; b) extending the salary tax to public
enterprises  which  benefit  from  Office  training;  c) reducing  the  Office's
recurrent budgetary requirements by meeting part of the recurrent costs of the
ITAs through student fees or loans as well as through receipts from the
vocational training levy.  The conclusions and recommendations of this study
would be provided to the Bank for review and comment by December 31, 1985.
Following the analysis of measures, the Government would consult with the Bank
on the recommendations and implement the necessary measures to ensure the
financial autonomy of the Office through continued self-financing of recurrent
costs, and the improved cost sharing among the different beneficiaries of the
Office's training programs (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03 (b)).
59.      Apprenticeship  Training.    The   strengthening  and  expansion   of
apprenticeship training is related to the important objective of ensuring
lower unit costs for training.  In view of deficiencies in the legal context
and in trade certification which constrain development of apprenticeship
training, the Office would develop a strategy to promote apprenticeship
training. The strategy would focus on the appropriate legal framework and the
steps to develop an adequate national system of trade certification with the
assistance of six man-months of consultant services. The Office would provide
this strategy to the Bank for review and comment by December 31, 1985 (Project
Agreement, Section 2.03 (a)).
60.      Small Business Management Training.  The Office has received several
requests from small business managers for training in areas relevant to their
operations, such as personnel, financial management, accounting, inventory
control,  plant  layout,  and  equipment  selection.   While  the  technical
assistance unit of the Office pour le Developpement Industriel (CDI, operating
under the authority of the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Tourism) helps
small scale enterprises improve various aspects of their operations in these
areas, there are no training programs to upgrade the relatively limited
knowledge and expertise of small business managers. The project would provide
the services of an expert for 12 months to help the Office develop a suitable
in-service training program to meet this need. The program would be provided
to the Bank for review and comment by July 1, 1986 (Project Agreement,
Section 2.03 (b)).
61.      Pre-investment Studies.  Since the project is seen by the Government
as a first step in a major effort to expand and strengthen vocational
training, it would also include pre-investment studies for possible components
of future vocational training projects.  These studies would be conducted by
the Office,  and  the  project  would  provide  24 man-months  of  consultants'
services,  through  short-term  assignments  of  experts  as  appropriate.   The
studies would be provided to the Bank for review and comment (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.03 (c}).
Training in Project Preparation, Appraisal and Selection
62.      As  part  of  Government  efforts  to  improve  project  preparation,
appraisal and selection in the public sector (para. 47), the MOP will develop
a training program for middle-level officials of operating ministries.  In a



- 20 -
preliminary stage, a three-person team of Moroccans worked with EDI to design
the  training  program,  under  UNDP  funding.   In  the next  phase,  training
resources and needs in the operating ministries would be assessed and Moroccan
trainers would be trained at EDI. A series of in-country seminars would then
be offered by the national trainers on methods of project preparation and
appraisal for selected officials of the operating ministries. Following these
seminars, the experience of the program would be assessed to determine
appropriate future activities and to monitor the impact on project selection.
The Government will discuss the results of the program with the Bank by
July 1, 1988 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03 {d)).
Cost Estimates and Financing
63.      The total cost of the project is estimated at about DH 399 million or
$44.1 million,   of  which  the  foreign  exchange  cost  is  $27.1 million.
Construction  cost  estimates  are  based  on  plans  for  project  training
facilities,  and  current  unit  building  costs  on  contracts  for  similar
construction standards in corresponding facilities, adjusted for regional cost
differences.  The costs per square meter are below the median for comparable
Bank-assisted vocational training center construction. The construction areas
per training place for projec: construction are reasonable and in line with
other Bank-assisted projects.   Cost estimates for professional architectural
services reflect the current scale of fees established by the Government for
services provided by local firms. Equipment cost estimates are based on lists
reviewed during appraisal and current CIF unit prices, adjusted to include
local transport, and, where appropriate,  installation costs.   Estimates  for
furniture are based on the relationship between furniture and construction
costs  in Morocco.   Since  all  materials  and equipment  imported under  the
project are exempt from customs duties, under the UNESCO agreement signed by
the Government concern ig educational equipment, project cost estimates
include only indirect taxes on civil works, amounting to about 13% of total
civil works costs or $3.31 million. Physical contingency estimates are set at
10% of the base cost of all project components; cumulative price contingencies
are estimated at 22% of base costs and physical contingencies.  The estimated
rates of price escalation are respectively: a) for foreign costs, 8% in 1985,
9% in 1986, 1987, and 1988, and 7.5% in 1989; b) for local costs, 10% in
1985-86, 9% in 1987-88, and 7.5% in 1989.
64.      The proposed Bank loan of $27.1 million would finance 100% of the
foreign exchange costs, including the capitalized front-end fee of $67,581.
This is equivalent to 66% of the total cost of the project net of taxes.
$26.7 million of the Bank loan would be made available to the Office on a
grant basis (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01 (c)). The Government would bear the
foreign exchange and interest rate risks on the Bank loan.  UNDP is expected
to finance $170,000 of the cost of the program in project preparation,
corresponding to 26% of the estimated total cost of this component, net of
contingencies.   EDI staff inputs  to this component would be provided from
EDI's own budget, at no cost to the project. The Government would finance the
remaining $16.7 million of the estimated local costs of the project.  When
fully operational in 1989, the training facilities under the project are



- 21 -
expected to require about DH 30 million ($3.3 million) annually in recurrent
costs, covering staff salaries, maintenance, operation of boarding facilities,
and the cost of expendable materials for the VTC workshops. This amount would
represent 20% of the projected total recurrent costs of the Office in 1989.
Project Implementation
65.      Implementation of the majority of project components would be managed
by the Implementation Service (Service des Realisations) of the Office.  This
service is resporsible for implementation of all the Office's on-going
projects and is well staffed and equipped.  Its performance record is good, as
demonstrated most recently in its role in overseeing the timely implementation
of four ITAs. The staff of the Service would be supplemented by other staff
of the Office,  as appropriate.   The Dffice's administrative procedures  are
efficient, and because of its autonomy, the Office is able to approve
contracts,  and  make  payments  on  these  rapidly.   Maintenance  of  Office
facilities is satisfactory, and includes regular preventive maintenance.
66.      The studies on coordination and financing of vocational training and
the pre-investment studies would be carried out by the Vocational Training
Planning Directorate of the MPW.  This Directorate is being strengthened to
play a greater role in the planning and coordination of vocational training at
all levels.  The training program in project preparation and selection would
be carried out by the MOP, with the assistance of EDI and UNDP and under the
guidance   of   an   Interministerial   Steering   Committee   consisting   of
representatives of the Ministries of Economic Affairs, Planning and Finance.
The program would be carried out as part of a UNDP technical assistance
project. Signature of an agreement with UNDP ensuring the maintenance of the
Moroccan program team would be a condition of disbursement for this component
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.04 and Schedule 1, para. 4 (b)). EDI would provide
20 staff-weeks in FY85-86 to assist in program start-up.
67.      The project is scheduled to be completed by December 31, 1989.  Eight
of the project VTCs would be constructed in a first phase, October 1984 to
March 1987. The preparation for this construction is advanced, and bids for
major construction work have been received and evaluated by the Office. Civil
work contracts for these VTCs have been signed and construction began in
October, 1984.
Procurement
68.      Construction contracts to be financed under the loan would be awarded
on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB), open to foreign firms, which
would be acceptable to the Bank in view of: a) the wide geographic dispersion
of the project institutions; b) the small contract value of each center
(estimated average base cost under $800,000); and c) the anticipated lack of
interest on the part of foreign contractors, as experienced in the on-going
Bank-financed Fourth and Fifth Education Projects.   Equipment and furniture
would be grouped to the extent possible in large packages for bulk
procurement, and contracts for packages exceeding $100,000 would be awarded on
the basis of ICE.  :tems which cannot be grouped in packages of this value



- 22 -
would be procured, subject to an aggregate value limit of $1.5 million,
through calling for quotations from at least three manufacturers or
suppliers.   Under  ICB  procurement,  local  manufacturers  would  be  allowed
staadard domestic preference. Prior Bank review of bid documents and award
recommendations would be required for all civil works contracts exceeding
S250,000,  and  for  all  equipment  and  furniture  contracts  under  ICB.
Consultants for the studies and technical assistance proposed under the
project would be re-zruited according to Bank guidelines for use of consultants.
Procurement Procedure    Percentage
Project Component              ICB      LCB     Other   financed y  Total Cost
(Ust millions)        Bank loan J
Construction (22 VICs)        -        22.2       -          41.0%       22.2
Architects' fees              -        -         2.2         -             2.2
Furniture and equipment       16.3               1.5         91.0%       17.8
Technical assistance           _       -         1.8         72.2Z         1.8
Total                    16.3    22.2       5.5         61.6%       44.0
Accounting and Auditing
69.      The  accounting  systems  of  the  Office,  the  MPW   and  YJP  are
satisfactory for the purposes of the project. The Office would establish a
separate project account, covering the components for which it would be
responsible, as would the MPW. The MOP componeat would be funded through a
special UNDP account. This would facilitate disbursements and monitoring of
ccunterpart funds.  Audits  will be  carried  out annually,  by  independent
auditors, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles. The auditors'
certification and report will be received within six months of the end of each
fiscal year.
Disbursement
70.      The proposed loan would be disbursed over six and a half years, and
disbursements are expected to be completed by December 31, 1990. This would
be shorter than the regional average of eight years, because of the advanced
state of project preparation, and because of the rapid implementation which
appears likely, given the Office's efficient procedures and previous
1/ Percentage calculated on the basis of total cost including taxes and
contingencies, but not including the front-end fee.



- 23 -
implementation record. Up to t2.3 million of financing retroactive to loan
signature would be permitted to cover expenses incurred after March 31, 1984
(Loan Agreement, Schedule  1, para. 4  (a)).   Disbursement percentages  for
different categories under the proposed loan would be:
-    civil works;  45% of total expenditures;
-    architectural and engineering services:  17% of total expenditures;
-    furniture  and  equipment:   1002  of  foreign  and  652  of  local
expendituxes;
-    consultant services;  80% of total expenditures; and
-    program in project preparation;  60% of total expenditures.
Project Benefits and Risks
71.      The project focuses on lower and middle level skill training for the
private sector. It would constitute a first phase in the expansion of such
training, which has remained very limited in relation to national demand; the
project would also help evolve approaches to address major sector issues in
vocational training, to lay the base for sound and planned expansion in the
future.  Tne project is fully in keeping with  the Government's policy of
strengthening the links between education and training and the job market, and
;rould support the planned expa.nsion of industrial output. The project would
provide important benefits to employers in the form of improved worker
productivity; it would also generate significant benefits to trainees. Based
on prevailing skill-related wage differentials, the present value of benefits
of the major project component (22 VTCs), in terms of incremental graduate
earnings, is estimated at almost three times the present value of capital and
recurrent costs of the component.
72.      The program in project preparation and selection is expected to lead
to widespread benefits through improved project identification, preparation,
and appraisal, more rational project selection in the planning and financial
authorizatioa  process,  and  through  better  planning  and  more   timely
implementation in all sectors.
73.      There is a risk that budgetary constraints, in the context of current
and continuing fiscal austerity vwhich has led to cut-backs in investments
programmed in the current Development  Plan,  and  implementation  delays  in
on-going projects) could prevent timely funding of counterpart funds for the
project. This risk is rcinimized by: i) the current Bank-assisted Government
effort to bring programmed investments more in line with available budget
resources, and hence ensure  timely implementation of the highest priority
investments; ii) the Government's explicit commitment at the highest level to
the project. which is reflected also in assurances that adequate funding will
be made  available.   The project  represents  a scaled-down version of the
Government's initial plan for vocational training investment in the project
period.   The reduced  investments  are  considered  feasible,  even under  the
present constraints, and the funds necessary to implement the project are
programmed in the latest Budget Law.  Office activities under the project
would be self-financing with respect to recurrent costs.



- 24 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
74.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Kingdom of Morocco and the Bank,
the draft Project Agreement between the Office and the Bank, and the Report of
tie Committee pro,ided for in Article III, Section H (iii), of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
75.      In addition to the features of the Loan Agreement, which are referred
to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III, the following features
are of special interestz  Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement provides that the
Government would enter into an agreement with an organization acceptable to
the Bank (UNDP), to maintain an appropriately constituted Moroccan team for
the component for project preparation, as a condition of disbursement for that
component.
76.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
77.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
November 2, 1984
Washington, D.C.



-25 -                                              AhMNE I
TANLE  31i                                        PAE
-w O                   -SOCIAL DICATU   DAT   C
IONOCCO                             GROUPSESE 0001  (EIMUDZC AVERAGES In
%OST                C       C    ITAZI) /b
3EhNr         NIinZ IoE               NU       Ec
16l0b     19W0f      b            K. Acu   a Km gam        U. IsrC  a ca
&]M (zmoor. 50.6 no
loTAL                              46.6 Ic    66.6 Ic    446.6 Ic
f  A  QNI~.IU3                     192.t 7-   20o.1 7E    208.9 7
*                     SW  Zm ai     cussF                     10).0     30l.o        3O0.0            1169_6                 216.6
m  loum vm aim
- .                           CK.ILO01AS(K   OF OIL EWIVAIT)      118.0      176.0       236.0              62L2.                  995.5
MloiiLn    aAm .ML S- ZM=
POPULATIOE.!1D-IAR (imaN08)o   1162.0    14938.          2023.0
-as  _OrLlI  (2W e TOTA             29.3        34.6        4a9                42                     66.5
POPULATIOSeN ilAt 2000 CmL                                31.2
STATTOWAST OmWU1%lO  OC )                                 70.4
POFUMATIOS ENSInDAT
S            Eri   . En.                       2,0o        33.L        4.2               3L3                    35.7
FM S  ML *ERL UX                  60.3        74.8        9.s              466.7                    9L6
POPiXIou ACrSS STACTUE (2)
0-14 YRS                         48   -   47.6           454                43.G                   39.9
15-46 IRS                         52.6        48.3        51.4              53.1                    56.0
65 A3SA                            2.6         4.2         3.1                3.3                    4.1
FPO?UATIW G-U  &AZE CZ)-
-OTAL                              2.6         2.s         L.S               2                      2.4
03343                              3.7         4.2         4.1                5s                     3.6
CROw   DNTIN RATE (PM  1W)          50.3        47.5        40.3               40.                    31.3
-C   DOEAM RATE tPE To=)            21.2        16.9         14.6              11.5                    3.1
GROW       T      RATE               3.5         3.5         3.0                2.5                    2.0
FAuLT PLANNIIM
ACCEPIDAS. A*MLL  mWs)               -        25.1        780 l
USERS CZ or 3n31  UWams                                   19. 0              22.2                   40.3
FoM AiM MRInM
1m3EX or FOOo PROW. PM CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       99.0         M0         3.0                97.3                  kl43
Pul CAPITA SUFP!X or
C*        (C or  m _RSIPJlI)     101.0       106oI.0      115.              110.                   110.6
91O1111  (Q1N5 PE VAT)            64.0        67.0        73.0               7.1                    67.3
OF WUCL ANDDJL AM  M55          14.0       13.0         14.0 jg           17.3                   36.1
0--LD (AS  1-4) DEAIT U:IC          36.3        26.0         20                14.6                    S.7
LIFE EXCT. AT SuaTM CtD)            46.7        50.1        SL9                57.5                    6.7
WAFrr IT. RAT  (PM TOUS)           160.5       136.0      t12.0               101.S                   60.6
ACCESS 1T SAFE VAXTR (WOW)
TOTAL                             30.6        510         5S.0 J             59.7                   6L4
1133AM                            58Z.7        M0       100.0 /              6.S                   7.1
RUtAL                             19.0        23.0        25.0               36L4                   6.2
ACCESS T0 NtM  DmPONAL
C oir POPUAT1W)
' 0                        TOTAL                                ,         29.c          .,                 ,,                   52.9
-                                   ..        75.0          ..                 ..                   67.0
RUWAL                                .         *.0          ..                 ..                   24.5
POPMATIO  PM  PUSICUI             9610.0    12Q079       10750.0 If          6365.1                 1917.7
POP. PU NORSIU  PR "                          2740.0       100 U             183LI                 - BI5.
PoP. P   067114 am
TOTAL                            6300,       660.0        750.0            639                     367.2
OnU                                  . *50.0             610.0              565.5                  4*t5
-IRM.                               ..      5610.0      3010.0             213.5          7L2.3
ADIIISIONS PU UOSIAL MD               .         1.5          17.9              27.3
AVEUAS SmN Or inma
TirAL                              4.8         5.5
0R3*                               4.3         k..
ROMAL                              5.1         5..
APURAZ  in. or PEU0SOINOOI
TOzTAL                             2.2         2.4
.Ull                               2.1         2.1
R1AL                               2.3         2.16
ASS IM 10   E?. CZ OF b-L     )
TOTAL                               .L2. ..                  ..              42                     ..
,,UNmAN  ..  6IL6      5.0 L.           7i.7
NUlL                                ..          ..           ..              161



-26-                                              AN-EX I
TAOLt  3L                                          mmCE 2
t£mDCC0                -SDCTCSoaAL INOCDOSAA    DArA
DUICCO ~  ~      ~     ~      UU u m   g1  (UKID   AUICS) I
am         srx-  0 sena                        ib    -
BE              I       S             11m vzr-OCaN
ADJU=  CUROXXMW RATMIST                                            at? ECET SWTE  I
m     ziur             s
R2IMr':  TOTAL                     47.0 s     52.0         730               8J.3                   105.4
KA T                    67.0        67.0        97.0              102.5                  106.3
Fir"X                  V27.0       36.0         60.                73.6                   0I.35
SERDAXT: TOTAL                     5.0        13.0         26.0              43.0                    43.2
a"LE                     7.0        18.0        31.0               S2.3                   12.3
yXIILE                   2.0        7.0         20.0               33.0                   *4.3
TOCATIOAL EX Cr II6ONU3A            30.2         Z.3          1.6              10.3                   33.6
PUPIL-IEACRER, RATI
PRNATW                            42.0        34.0         36.0              3CL3                    30.1
SDzWAZtD                           6.0        20.0         20.0              23.1                    16.1
ADLT LITERACY RAUT CZ)              138         21.4         2.0               *3.S                    73.5
PASSENGER CARSITHOUSASD V0W         10.7        1 -9    -   21.5 ^             17.3                   46.0
RAQ10 RECZ1UE St;HSaS5D 1043                    62.5        133.3             138.6                  223.6
.v NiCEIUERS/tDOISAFD PP             OL.        11.6         3L.3              46.1                   107.2
SUNSPAMf C-DA2LT G9ARJ
sEESr) CKRCAF
PER ZSAWMS) POPMALAIO             22.1        16.2         X2.3 If           31.2                    63.5
CEnarA AXISM. SIEmDA1CEACAP1T        1.3         1.S lb       2.0 r             1.7                    2-J
TOTU L* R FOace C£rOSC)           3339.0      3339.0       5361.0
79m11 (PERCENT)                   10.0        14.2         16.0              1O0S                    23.2
ACHITCUrRLTE (PERCEN)              52.0       57.0         32.0              42.4                    31.3
INDUSTRI (CPUtCZ5)                14.0        17.0         21.0              27.9                   23.3
PAXTICIIATTOV RATE CPERCENTr)
.uDAL                             23.1        26.3         26.3              26.2                   32.2
KA^LE                              52.1       45.2         *4.4              46.4                    39.3
13WALE                             3._         7.3          S.3               5d                     13M2
Q aC DEPENH0ECa RATIO                1.6         2.0          1.5               1.5                    1.4
JERCENT aPr IVrTE IRCIEo
RECEIVED IT
RICHEST St F HCUSZJOL8S           1U.0 it    20.0 11
NIIHEST 2CS or bOuSDuROD4         43.3 T7     49-o Ti-
LOSEST 2C2 OF ROUSEbODS            7.0 j.      1.0 71.
1UES1S  0M or moUSzEOLLS U.O 2c *2.0 7.
ovzt ThCaw  cNIOSn5
EMATDtTED AISOLUE POVExRY XNCD
LEVE  CMS  MER CAflT3)
cRaw7                             107.0      157.0        369.0 /f          274.6                   28U.2
XOXAL                             66.0       101.0        238.0 7Y          177.2                   164.0
ISrIDLTED EELAnTIE POlK?T? IT
LTVJL USS PMR CAITrA)
waEA                                ..          ..        242.0 If          42.6                   322S.
RURAL                               ..          ..     - 157.0 F            2n4.3                  372.4
ESTEATED P0P. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY LNCINIE LEVEL (2)
URIATi                            51.0        36.0         28.0 /f
RLXAL                             69.0        45.0         45.0 7.
- OT AVAIlABLE
rT APYTICAJLE
X O T Z S
/a 1bu group averagas for ech Sadl=tor are papulatlou-ea4hted ar1t_t1c _i. Cavrage of cae.trru  mas the
ladleatora dapaud  as ealtiabity of dato  sd is nat w tfeim.
lb   lase stbha   -a stea .  sts for iEr rfer to aw year betwem 1,33 em  1361; -atas tr eSr betr  1g3 _f d
1971; ae dats for IIaet keet latSmte' betwen IO  ad IW.
/   Includs t1e e-* emsb Seiae a  1376; &   377; /t 1379; LL 1376; l 1972; I Cmeamptlom eupautwr of
heuablad.
JUNE. 14



-27-                                                                ANNEX I
page 3 of 6
d..ei.st.   .4mit a.  2.tiOt een.  i.t.tsett  lflt*  .if  flt.tint O.            dttitO
n.e.-~.i. -.~      Ci.-  . e  -       .t.   .      .-   yt.tni   gtta                     n    en..te.li-e  W    -tZ                       a
afil.?  ,.fe  ..5.  it   tflt~   2!  n   t.5  .ae   tt.'2*4. Sne  atW   in. ennai. '..e  it t--a i. UtO    t           -s.  a.-i-i  -"-is
*e2.if...  :i  i..t.. (it-.  -iit -fl    *. ..itst   nt...  nVn  S    i.  S-,  t-itt   -              s:.        ases, e a   nt               .. i
..t  -t**  t  lStSE    .. W.5cift-.t   t   .tt     fC  5i  .am-tO   t~i-  f  nitttt  -dt*-  *tt..t.   tf                 .ti
..t.i..S....(   -t(fit           mt.f.. ..ts.  a   a.a..2inmn.e-.i.  .2.  -*t.tt-                                            f. lawi.e
.r. *,..*t-  .~..t                                                P.nStta -.  t,attt.s - tlt.S.  t -t*.ft                 .       ..ic.
.-                                                                     ea..ta te   ...-q itnO-l,           i.l.fi  41.*44    m . sC.teif'
Z   . t               ftt*i               4tWi5ft        ~s--tta.e    sI    .n    n.   .tt                                              5C    t.ti            W~a
-a..                                           i.t.t-i-i  ..t -a,tt.2  a  - *-ie.:  ..e-.           ..      ett         tit
iflt  *d  -   W.z eta  tiC.. tfltt.S  '.Mt.t.-difl~                                                                      .0
is..  It-. -  .: a..                                                                                -i.e           a oft";n.   .o.n    t..mi,n n.
--tnt  -Sntae.-  .--i....    .~aiis  .-,.             ale!  .nt.-   .enu.  -.l.   -.  rtt                            -t  *      ..
Mi t.f-t --a   a   Liti.  .e--t.o   .ao    .  -i   de-.'-iit..  as  ....    ..  .dI?*  .t.  est   ft-1.iot W-i                     -Liat
a   ..et.a   etitisi2s  ti-.e .1  45   ..nt.t ~t-.fitt  si                        i.l        ttOtt   1Si                              1-O .utt
tfl.en    t ae.                                                                e.i--i-i.  ..   ati*   -     Tt.n         t  -    l~Ia 'Oft-3.
attst-e O.t--Lts.  .7 -sta                 .2n       1.stIl. i.                                enCtalOt  ml.*                   .   ttEtpOv-                  -tt
it.    .p.i.tta  -   M  ad   fSS.Ct at..12t. en ii,att..-i1-  .&    Is O
ttttts ~    ~       ~       1-                               -le251    .l    it    t  tti.f   t  itiM..   nU t tOt C1M   ..tf i.-    ,-Iu n- t-t-,it
i-..*.i.-.t.t.ta    .-e.   ..iCt?ii   WS.-sttS.t.   4.2 t.i.f4.Mltt_ .Of                                                                                       &-..u -
..-   t..teit.ta  *Srt-itt~ii-f-i  Sti-.-Jf  ..it'-   -.ti  at-  adtii ( -   Ma.5                                                          -    t-  *f-tdI 
t-.Lf       sii        .i   t       A  .ts.a              a-S  .ai0                                4. -i t       Of. ..t.t=- `-=.   I.-&. ee.t.atet
__ __ __ __ _ _                                                                           ta   .       .  a (-   it  t   l.   t' -  .-  1O     -cil* * _     O
.t-...Utie.......i-aeei.tuii                     8                    .t.W-i.Lutt1l
-. -   -i-.iti-i- - ~ ti a  . ta   et.iii-i.i i-    r---i-ii.Si t..f  elfi-iet.i.s.  ad i ino e-.ac
Ctif.    ~ttiifit  iCS.1     ttMt.-.lOd i-tt-t.teiit21-                           Cntn-
,-i..lhiin  -s, :tiO-t'.    Ott. as i,ito-i                                                    ..ia.tt.al2  -iaft.  di-                       .        fs.e.t  -i
Ctiif  itOi   a OOt.-..-i.%    -  i..s   St. St C* -L ftast.  Sd                                   .-i.tlf:ls-   -it.    -t                        .-ilt tl.
ttiit    tti   4             d  t?dtl t-f4.   t-n.



Pmlalan  :11.8 wA"Ion OW11103)                           28 
0Ps csr 1witaas IlS       (1n 5)                                                                                                 POW a  ,  _es
Imills uss at
wr._  silas) _1_.r _                                                               ffI llf ilr,6l
5,S,s ewf st'gc srs   Uf  146   -            2.2     6.6      3.6    -1.3     5.3       2.2              2.      2.?      I.      3.2
c"plltws  v              250              A.S    -1.7      5.1   -22.       0.5     -6.6              *.5      2.        e I   2.e
nWastry It               GM              -3.0     7.7 -2.5 s5.1            2.2       2.1              2.5      3.6     5.5     6.5
Ssrvlcsm  of             5676             5.5      5.1     6.5     5.5      6.6      5.5              6.5      5.5     5.5     251
Cwuageget                 1255               6.1     5.3      2..     1.J     6.5       e.5              2.1     2.6    2.        2.6
gr3   Imssn  t             2442            -2.1      1.3   .7.3    -A4        7.s        -16.4           323    4.2    .1.5       3.5
-U  ssrSIFS                26                3.2     5.0      2.7     3.2     5.5       7.6              2.2     56       3.6     .3.
mv6.s or GM3               510             -11.6     2.2    41.6      6.1     2.?    -11.3               5.2     1.6     6.3      5.5
GPMrassuttsw   ss,tsg       Il3            -25.6     5.2      5.5   45.6      2.1      31.1              3.0     1.6      6.3     0.0
GOPnaUr (1    a too1      .               .6      1.7  121.3   125.6   121.5    125.5
se -   rate Ms W  SRI                       .N       .2rt6   .25     .11      .16s    .161
VW5 or M  at pmut Silas ts)                              Igof minim] t
131    111    1311   1658   133   1335        1i -73  1313.1   1313-3           136.3          _ 
or   iwqsttg poCt at                                                         4.6      6.6      5.3             2.7        3.6
Agvcultws                23.1   10.9   17;9   14.1   14.4  13.            3.5   , -1.4       .4            -1.9        2.2
lnbstr                   21.5   27.0   25.2   32.2   31.5  32.7           6.7      7.1      4.1             2.2        *.2
Sivlcus gW#              67.6   5.1   66.0   50.5   56.5  55.7            6.1      S.5       .2       z      .*4       3.?
Cstmn                      50.2   S5.5   "..   08.5   53.1  55.6             6.1      6.3      5.0             2.4        2.5
sS t lswagt                 18.3   *.5   35.4   22.6   16.9  15.2            5.5     *2.2     -1.1            -2.2        3.1
Exports mrs                27.4   17.5   32.    16.4   2 3.  22.2            1.5      5.5      4.8             64.        7.5
bom    S G25.    2.    52.                        2 20.6   2.2  27.5       32.        7.0      1.W            4.2        5.5
moetionl *N"          11.5   146.    10.3   16.5   12.1  14.0          3.5     1.2       -co            41.         7.5
as 1 ml  ,
current                                   16.5      16.1     23.3     21.      22.7      22.2
Current  -  ltws                          15.6 S      .S     25.2     21.      32.S      22.7
Srlus (1 or dficIt (-)                     5.        1.6      3.1    '.42       5.1      5.5
Caital 1sltam                              5.6       5.7     12.2     12.2     13.5       5.6
Farstm,n f1 nc                              ,.       1.2      3.7      5.6      7.2      5.
-P growth ratip (M                 4.5      6.5      4.0       2.4      3.7
s cuitbgwt  rt m                   1.6      3.1       1.6    -5.1       1.1
betsy cmnsatlw  from" ras M    2.5          6.?      5.6       5.2      5.6
WIN                                3.50     3.5      6.1       7.6      4.6
rt*nal Saings raft                 5.1      5.25   -4.15       3.16   *.28
beort slasticity  of               5.5      1.66      5.13    4.63      1.36
Al At warmS P"iess
V  At factor cost.
5, Siurt 2536 itigisIgo in soncS.
if Prm3ectoll mws at in       15  Wrien.
ml 55555 sup.                                                                                                                  oct-s 2-. 1me
-  0r   IZX
£~~~~~~~~~                                                                          D    1 



- 29 -
Pomulation    :20. million (uid-1983                                                                        ANNEX113
G1P Per Capita: us$ 75  (19183                                                                              Page S of 6
kAm1t                              Aimial Growth Rates 1(2
Indicator            (illton USS at                        ( 3te eamtant 1930 DrriePs
current Prices)                  Actual                                                 19oe7ted
'z                                      loss 192               1935      1986      197
1KIEAL TRADE
- erchandise exports (FOB)      2043                4.0        1.1       10.2          6.6       5.e       8.4       8.
Primary products             1318               -2.9      -11.8        4.7          9.7       4.0       3.4       3.0
Phosphate rack             572               -5.4      -10.6        4.3          5.8       4.0       3.0       3.0
Others                     746               -1.0      -12.6        4.5          12.4      4.0       3.7       3.0
Intermdiate Z   ~factures   72S                 25.2       21.7       19.1          2.3       6.5      15.5      16.S
Merchqndise irorts MCM)         4335                4.4        6.1      -7.5           3.0       1.Z       3.7       4.7
Food                          585               22.9      -18.8       -5.3         12.0       3.7       3.5       3.2
Fuels                        1173               10.6       -1.8        0.7          6.9       0.5       2.8       3.3
mahinery mmd esit             9S3               -33        30.0      -Z2.Z         -13.3     .4.0      -0.4       4.3
Otters                       1629               -3.2       13.3       -3.3           4.0      *.2       5.5       6.2
PRIM (1980 - 1003
Expart vrice index                .               119.4      1Z3.1      134.6        162.4    160.3    202.5    224.3
mort Price index                                  128.2    -139.8       149.3        160.6    198.3    217.9    239.S
Term of trade index               .                93.1      u8.0        90.1         90.0      90.9      92.9      93.7
Composition of Merchandise Trade (23                Average Annual Increas  (2)
(at curret primesl                 tConstant 1969 orie1          (Cantant 1980 prim)cI
1970   1975    1098    1985   199           1970-75     1975-W           1980-35      1985-90
Exports                                                                       -1.3         6.8               5.1          7.2
Priary products               89.4   86.9   75.5   56.1   47.8              -2.D         5.3              OS           3.1
Intenediates & manufactures   10.6   12.3   24.S   41.9   S2.2                7.6       12.8              16.5         12.2
norts                                                                          a.6         0.7               1.3          4.4
Food                          16.9   2S.0   16.8   16.3   15.8              13.1         2.9               1.9          3.1
Petroleum                      S.S   10.8   23.S   27.2   23.0               9.1         S.2               3.2          3.S
Machinery and equipicnt       24.1   24.0   18.8   1S.7   14.3               12.0       -7.3              -5.4          3.8
Others                        53.S   40.2   40.9   40.8   41.9                5.2        2.S               2.6          5.5
Share of Trade with           Share of Trade with         Share of Trade with
Inductrtal Cum  riecs CZ)    D0.elnnina Commtries (21  rmnital Surplus Oil ExDorters M1I
1960     1920      1980       1960 L.1970         1930       1960     1970         1980
NrRECTIDU OF TRADE
ExDorts                      72.3      73.7      76.5       27.7      2S.4     21.6         ..       0.9          1.9
Imoorts                      76.7      74.9      72.9       23.3      25.1      8.3         ..        ..         18.8
October 29. 1984
OUR CP 1I-
ID 01803 p.S



Pwultion    :  2. Smillion  mido-1983                                       -  0 
GNP Per capita: VIS$ 70 (1903 
(milsl  aS  t Curat priCeSl
Indicator                                       1Setn90              AGIlim                        1              Pr1m9.d         n?
197S      tgn9       two e      u         i,uz      1382     19U4       1985     1935      197      1990
ELNEOF PAWEU7I                                         a!90
Exeorts  f gds and servic                   29s5      2694       4*        4132      384U       3921     4100       4594     593       7m1
of Balich-  m NhWd iS. f*o.b.            14W       192        2414     M2         2043       2034     2206       2471     3810      322      5t"
sOrt  of ods Vnd  sevi                      42353     52ti       5912      6sS        5912       3U      493        5904     6147      703    102
Of Balch:  HErCludise f.e.b.             2628       2245       770      2840      2815       5298      2 3377    205      48        4727     7003
Mt current transfws                           5          4        12        102        170        94        n         74        7        U 
Cwrent account balwc                      -1248     -1520      -1420     -1061      -139       -2        -762      -725     479       -725     -5
Net Direct Forelln Znvet5ut                   45        37        19         7         102        47        Si        56        a2        5       9
Of icial Grants                              260       420         96       212        20         44        16         -
NLT lu    gnt)                               n9       1017       1024      1102       125        220       671                 R I      g        7
Official                                  288       341        722      1032        7          40       32          -        -         -        -
Private                                  502        876        314        70        614      -11e      m            -        -         -
other capital (nt                            17           2       -70       112        -46        88        3        1         11       121       11
change In reserves                             6        52        248       20         28Z       164       -12      -345      -424     -279     -193
Intertal   see772                                      917        814    sn1                     276       Su0       64   o*6           763     3167
of which:  Gold                            5        360        41S      2n0         322       269       26        20       26       a2        26
s          servt as  zOls "WU                2.1       2.1        I.        1.0        11         .9       1.2       14         .4      1.       1.2
*      117AL CAPITaLL 88  OUST
gsS distbrsumentS                           1446      1326       1711      2047       2310        84
Officlal Grants                           260       420         96       212        204        44
Cancassiaal loun                          225       294        761       894        562       214
DAC                                    91         77       100        126       12          49
OPEC                                  139        165      s54         746        ol       lS
IDA                                     -          -         1          1          1         1
other                                 4*          49        76         21        36         49
sl-c mcgssonal loans            *          .1      1112        513       839      1543        624
official exo          crgdtts            3       .2          10        so        40         42
I=                                     72        137        64                  14         174
Other .ltilateral                      S3          7        12        116       126         27
Private                               n2         963       765        570      1242        233
Sulirs Credits                     l           8        12         26        52          a
Financial credits aid bans         72         9S7       753       513       1191       375
External Debt                                         60          1         93       9S          "
Debt outstading aIn  disksed            5144       5204       70        793       95         9
rficial                              2476       28S5      2496       4372      S004       584
Private                              26"        22So      2612       2610      4049      3252
unisbursed debt                         2234       2403       2154      3146      2407       265
Debt s.evvc
TOtal srr  ce       tS S43                         Sol       1193      1266       1324      1120
interst                               252        412       614        534       S8l       s51
Pa2oits as 3 s moo.r  of CS              18.5      21.7      27.2       20.6      24.7       28.s
Averae interest rate ai nw lOis (t)             7.0       8.2        5.2       8.4       10.1       7.4
Official                                     4.9       5.2        3.3       3.7       6.9        5.5
Private                                      9.7      11.1       13.4      13.7       11.1      10.5
Average   turity of new loans (YS)             13.2       15.7      13.7       9.S       11.0      15.9
o fficial                                   16.2      21.7       18.6      I1.6       19.7      21.1
Private                                      9.1       9.8        7.9       7.1       6.3        7.6
*a K .7 fl.t &jthta.din  at mdl of lsct in  Tua  flema
Meturity structe of debt outstaMning
maturities dUo within 5 Years                                              40.8
Maturities duw  .lthin 10 years                                                 
aleet structure of debt out ding
Intest Awithn frst Wr                                                       S.9
Octob       29. 193
DzO CP .I-4
eme @1 4
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d



- 31 -
MAnEX r
STATUS OF RANK OPERATIONS
A. STATIEBENT OF BAN1K LOAMS AND IDA tgEDrrs M
(As of Septeber 30. 1984)
Loan or                                                       Aront (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                USS Million
ImBr Yorr roer                            Purpose            Bank      MA       Undisbursd
Thirty one Loans fully disbursed                           822.14
Four Credits fully dtsbursed                                          38.62
855     1975    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture                     14.0         7.59
1416    1977    Kingdom of forocco    Agriculture           41.0                  21.47
1528    1978    Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development  18.0                     10.83
1602    1978    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture           65.0                  52.64
1681    1979    Kingdom o~ Morocco    Education            113.0                  92,94
1687    1979    Kingdom of Morocco    DFC (SSI)              13.2                  1.14
1695    1979    Kingdom of Morocco    Power                 42.0                  27.3
1724    1979    Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply          49.0                  15.84
1757    1980    Kingdom of Morocco    tgriculture           58.0                  36.02
S-18    1980    ONAREP                  Otl Exploration    50.0                    0.10
1330    1980    Kingdom of Morocco    Highways              62.0                  1S.06
1148    1980    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture           34.0                  27.40
1943    1981    CIH                     Tourism            100.0                  45.21
1944    1981    Kingdom of Morocco    Urban Development  36.0                     33.86
2006    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Water Supply           87.0                 74.43
2037    1982    ANNE                    OFC                  70.0                 57.51
2038    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    DFC (SSI)             40.0                  38.89
2082    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture            29.0                 27.87
2109    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Mining                  9.5                  9.02
2110    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Forestry               27.5                 25.26
2114    1982    ONAREP                  Oil Shale            20.0                 15.19
2149    1982    Kingdom of Morocco    Education             50.0                  47.59
2217    1983    Kingdom of Morocco    Agriculture            30.0                 29.35
2245    1983    CIH                     Housing Devt.       60.0                  58.21
2253    1983    Kingdom of Morocco    Agrtculture            42.0                 41.62
2254 b/ 1983    Kingdom of Morocco    Highways              85.0                  84.37
2271    1933    ORAREP                  Oil ExDloration    75.2                   52.93
2272    1983    Kingdom of Morocco    Village Infrastr.  16.0                     15.92
2367    1984    CNCA                    Agri:. Credit       115.4                 96.23
2377    1984    Kingdom of Morocco    Incust. & Trade
Policy Adjust.   1I.4                    3.64
Total                                                2415.34    52.62    1065.96
of which has been repaid                            361.15    flj9
Total now outstanding                                2054.19    50.64
Amount Sold                        20.11
of which has been repaid         20.11                0.0       0.0
Total now held by Rank and IDA                       2054.19    50.64
Total undisbursed                                                          1065.96
mmII
a/ The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financial projects in operation. which is updated twtce yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
bh Not yet effective-
S. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30. 1984)
sSt million
Fiscal Year                                                    Loan     Euity   TctaB
1963/1978/1984  MUDE                 Development Bank          37.6      2.7       40.3
1966            CIL                  Canning Factory            0.9      0.5        1.4
1976             Marrakech Cement   Cement Factory               -       1.3        1.3
1977/1980        Temara Cement       Cement Factory             4.7      3.6        8.3
1979             Agadir Cement       Cement Factory            12.5      2.2       14.7
1980             SOMIFER             Copper Mining             13.0      2.3       15.3
1931/1983       Casablanca Cement  Cement Factory              15.8      2,        I.
Total Gross Commitments                                      84.5     14.6       99.1
Less cancellation. terminations. repayments and sales  41.5          3.5      _4jo
Total commitments now held by IFC                           43.0      11.1       54.1
Total Undisbursed                                                      0-3        0-3
' Agadir Cement has been cancelled.
1D.04791p9/10
11/02/84



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
MOROCCO
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
SUIPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I;  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to Prepare Project:          About 15 months  (December 1982 -
March 1984)
(b)  Project Preparation Responsibility:    The Office of Vocational Training
and Employment Promotion;
Ministry of Planning.
(c)  Bank Missions    i) Identification      May 1983
ii) Preparation        October 1983
iii) Appraisal          March 1984
Cd)  Negotiations;                           August/September 1984
(e)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:          February 1985
Section II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
5i) Conditions of Disbursement
The Government would enter into an agreement with an organization
acceptable to the Bank (UNDP), to maintain an appropriately constituted
Moroccan team for the component for project preparation (para. 66).
(ii) Other Conditions
(a) The Government would provide the recommendations of the study on
coordination of vocational training to the Bank by December 31, 1985, and
would  discuss  with  the  Bank  the  proposed  measures  for  improved
coordination and how they would be implemented (para. 57).
(b) Following the analysis of the policy options for the financial viability
of vocational training, the government will provide the conclusions and
recommendations reached to the Bank for review and comment by December
31, 1985. On the basis of these recommendations and after consultation
with the Bank, the Government would take appropriate measures to ensure
the financial autonomy of the Office through continued self-financing of
Office recurrent costs, and to improve cost-sharing among the different
beneficiaries of the Office's training programs (para. 58).



I4                             II                                I8
MO ROCCO
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
Pronosed Vocational Training Centen:
-34                  U      Phase I
*                        O     Phose ll
Main roads
Secondary roads
Tracks s
4.  Airports                                                                                  CASABLAN
Parts                                                                                        ..:
-Rivers                                                                               AWmSU- 
_.---- 300 Millimeter isohyet                                                         JDrl L,o
-    Elevations above 1000 meters
e  Nationol capital.Provincial capitols                                           -
:  Other towns and villages
-32'                - .-International boundaries                                                          /
International boundary (oproximore)                                     SAF      A
Indicates the territory of the
former Spanish Sahora (Western Sahara]
O  2J ZCOC SClWC 1C  l_C?CESSAOUIRA
0    20    £0,   eC~  50    ,cC  '20ic  52-   U                                       k.n
- ..utErts                  I'°fna'   /                                        l   X          i
-30' ~ ~~~~~                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~ ,oon - 
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~Agn -INI _                                            - OrOt
CANA ?Y 
ISLAAUDSD-
-28'                  (Slpoin)                                     
Torlore .o                                                                      j             -'
IA'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~



_________________________________ _ _                                  I BR   D     18273R
B                                 I   ;, *,    . r.: ot             1                                 2'          SEPTEMBER 1984
w  X   i ^ e rra, e on             Se a
.1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
-_~~~~~C4.  ,; . t- $_;'I<,    -    -  A ;    S -  -
CASABLAN-CA                                           F~
&VN..~~~~~~~~~
M~~~rAECL.    ~ ~ 13-
OUARZAZAi.--
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ae of Map,.  __
-                           -I I                                          )                    E r o  A
/i                                                                                       _    _    _    _     _    __.      *
-T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                   Are of M ;op{ 
i^INT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
'  .'          .;   '(  A.^.,i*  
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ~ ~ _ _ _____          _ _        _.  _   9  _     _      _   _ ______






