Duamt tf
The World Bank
FM3 OMICIL USE ONLY
Rup*N , 12320
PROJECT COMPLOt REPOr
OCTIO   TRAIING PROJECT
(LOAN 2479-NOR)
SEPTEMBER 17, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No;        12320
Type: PCR
Population and Human Resources Operation Diviion
CoMutry Department I
Middle Sast and North Africa Region
Tis document hbs a reticted dlttibnoD an may be used by recipients only in tbe perfomance of
eir offical duts. Its contents may not otberwis be disclosed wthout World Buak aoation.



EtVOLlMON -OF 3ME ENLAj; BA1
Atapprl:          Octaoba 1984      US I   D9.1
Pedod Average:    198S     USS I  D DH 10.0
1986    US I =DH 9.1
1987     USS I -DH  83
1988    U$1 - DU 8
1989    US$   = DHM8
199     IMS I  DR Al
1991    US$ I  DH 8.7
E8mate            1992    US$ I  DH 8.7
BOPRQOWERCA  ER
enuaty I - December31
A.PFC  Vocational and StfFTai      dandtio
Adm.iitatio de k Fomafion Proslione&let doe l Fomadon des Cadres
CNIA    National Cwousel for Yoth
Cornell National d bl Jmuee at Avenir
EDI      Economic Deveopm2ent Instt
Insit do ddvelQPP4M*d6WUDmiqu.
EEC      Ecropen Economic Communty
CbmmunMa6 ues     m _d _omanu
IlC      ntTuctoTraing Cter
ILO      InternatnLabour O         _nizaon
Bueu iteatioa dv Ttvail
MP    Natna sbt    for Tann and Pedgoi Reaeb
hIiat Nationa do Forataion ot de Recherche Paogiqe
MIS      Man      nt noaion Sytem
Syat&n de Geation do Pinfbrmadon
LSMS    Livg  Stanads Maument Survey
MTU    Nobile Traing Units
oFpPr  Office for Voca St Tring and Bmpyniet Prmotion
Oflice dole rowmtion Profeasonnell et de P romotion du Tmvail
PNAP   Nadonal Project Analysis Prgam
Prgmme Natonal d'Analye de Protss
VTC      Vocton Taing C_ntsn
Ctes do Pomaltion psOSionne10%



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washingt  D.C. 2433
U.SA
OOptatone Ealuation
September 17, 1993
MMORANDUM  TO 1IE EXEClUTfYE DlRECIORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Morocco
Vogational Training Project (Ln. 2479-MZR%
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Morocco - Vocational Training Project
(Loan 2479-MOR) prepared by the Middle East and North Africa Region. Part II was prepared by
the Borrower.
The project's preparation, desgn, implementation and outcomes were deficient, and are
rated unsatisfactory. For a first intervention in the vocational training subsector the range of risks
was inadequately identified. TIbough the project achieved a major objective in expanding vocational
training capacity and graduate output, the labor market and economic analysis on which training
needs were based was incorrect, leading to a mismatch of graduate skills with job opportunities and
consequent unemployment Progress on key policy reforms did not occur as planned because of
failure during preparation and appraisal to secure Borrower commitment to use TA for studies,
combined with insufficient Bank-Borrower dialogue during implementation. Neglect of these process
factors meant that few actionable recommendations were produced.
Despite being subject to only minor project implementation bottlenecks, mainly on
procurement, and despite the borrower's high commitment to the expansion of training, project
management lacked three critical features: an authoritative mechanism for subsector coordination,
ongoing technical advice and indicators to monitor progress. These deficiencies signal that
institutional development objectives were only partially achieved. The fact, though, that the
implementing agency achieved significant savings on chvil works and equipment contracts points to
increasing expertise in carrying out investment projects.
Sustainability is uncertain because of the failure to make much headway on subsector
reform studies and uncoordinated subsector management However, the apparent adequacy of
government funds for the subsector and commitment to a second project provide a basis for remedial
actions to better ensure that training matches labor market needs.
Part I of the PCR is a candid account of Bank and Borrower deficiencies and is mafred
by only minor inconsistencies and data gaps. Part II describes project implementation without
comment and mentions good Bank-Borrower cordiality.
It is intended to audit the project together with the follow-on project (Ln. 2779-MOR).
Attachment                                           :
|This docnn hu a resEeRed dbtrbution andi may be used by recipients only in th pe -7nat, a of their ofIcial l
duft  Us conlerf may not ofwkse ine disclosed wdSwut World I lank authorkfe



FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
VOCATIONAL TRAINING PROJECT
(Loan No. 2479-MOR)
PROJECT COMLTICnON REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ............................   ii
PAIT I.  PROJECT REVIEW   ROM BANK' S PERSPECTIVE ............    1
PROJECTIDENTITY ............................  1
PROJECT BACKGROUND  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
The Economic Context  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
Manpower Requirements and Training Capacity . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
PROJECqT OBJ .CTI                          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
PROJECT DESIGN.                                                                            3
The Labor Market and Job Insertion  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
Managerial and External Efficiencies   . . . . . .                                  4.. . . . . . . .  4
Project Scope . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
Lack of Indicators   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  . . . ......................    5
Project Amendments  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
PROJECT RESULTS AND OUTCOME . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
Project Quantitative Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
Mobile Training Units . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
Technical Assistance and Consultant Services  . . . . . . . . . . .    7
Lackof Dialogue.                                                                    7
Lack of Quality Control.                                                            7
Lack of Ownership.                                                                  8
Project Impact on Employment   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . .  .  9
MAJOR LESSONS LEARNED . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
Labor Market Forecasts.                                                             9
External Efficiency .10
The Measurement of Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
Managerial Efficiency . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
Ownership of the Technical Assistance Component . . . . . . . . . .   10
Mobile Training Units . . . . . . . . . . . . .... . . . . ... .    .10
This doument hasa restritetd disiubuion and may be usd by rpients only in te perormance
of -their offici dutieshIts contents may not otherwise be dilcksod without World Bank authorization.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
VOCATIONAL TRAMING PROJECT
(Lo No. 2479-MOR)
PRFOJE   COMPLETION REPORT
TABLIEOP QFTETS (Cont'd)
PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND BANK PERFORMANCE  ... .  .  .  .  .   ..... .  11
BORROWER PERFORMANCE  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  11
PROJECT RELATIONSHIP  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   11
PUT II.  PROGRAM         = RON  BRCTV    ...REVIEW........  12
IDENTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT ..................... .  12
WITHDRAWAL OF FUNDS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
PURPOSE OF THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
INITIAL PROGRAM DOMICILED WITH THE OFPPT ............... .  15
UNSPENT CREDIT BALANCE APPLICATION PROGRAM  . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
RELATIONS WITH THE BANK . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
PMRT III. STATISTICAL INFORNATION
.     .     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    . .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    . 28
Table 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE.                                        28
Table 3: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US $ Million Eqtivalent)  . . . . . . . . . .  28
Table 4: PLANNED AND ACTUAL COMPLETION DATES OF COMPONENTS  . . . .  30
Table 5a: PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
Table 5b: PROJECT FINANCING . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
TABLE 5c: PROJECT COSTS BY ITEM . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
Table 6: PROJECT RESULTS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
Table  7:  STUDIES    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  33
Table 8: STATUS OF COVENANTS  ........  ..  ..  ......   .   34
TABLE 9: BANK MISSIONS  ...............  ......   .   35
MAP -  IBRD   18273R1



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
VOCATIONAL TRAllING PROJECT
(Leaw 2479MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETON REPORT
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the First Vocational
Training Project in Morocco, for which a loan of US$27.1 million (2479-MOR) was
approved on November 27, 1984. The loan was closed on June 30, 1992 eighteen
months behind schedule, and disbursements continued through November 4, 1992
reaching 85 percent of the loan. The undisbursed amounts were cancelled in
December 1991 for US$3 million and November 1992 for US$1.06 million.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Population and Human Resources Division
of the Middle East and North Africa Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary and Parts
I and III), and the Office de la Formation Professionnelle et de la Promotion du
Travail (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank final supervision
mission of the project in October 1992, and is based on the Staff Appraisal
Report, the Loan Agreement, the Project Agreement, supervision reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower and internal Bank memoranda.



- iii -
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
VOCATIONAL TRAIIG PROJET
(Loa 2479-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMNARY
1     The project objectives were to address key sector issues by contributing
to expanding vocational training capacity consistent with future needs for
skilled labor force, improving coordination of vocational training, contributing
to the financial viability of the main public vocational training institution and
helping to develop appropriate future training activities. The project was to
also help improve project selection and preparation in the public sector. The
loan beneficiaries were (i) the Office for Vocational Training and Employment
Promotion (Office de la Formation Professionnelle st de la Promotion du Travail,
OFPPT) for the construction and equipment of 22 new Vocational Training Centers
(VTC) as well as for other studies related to -training of instructors and
curricula developmert: (ii) the Vocational and Staff Training Administration
(Administration de la Formation Professionnelle et de la Formation des Cadres,
AFPFC) for the studies dealing with coordination and financing of vocational
training and development of future training activities; and (iii) the Ministry
of Planning for a component aiming at improving project selection and preparation
in the public sector.
PROJECT EXECUTION
2     The project was 80 percent completed in August 1989, eighteen months before
the closing of the Loan. Substantial savings on the loan utilization were
realized due to favor-able prices in the Moroccan construction sector, to exchange
rate gains and to workshop dimension standardization. As a result of these
savings, US$10.5 million including US$6.5 million of unallocated funds, were
expected to remain unspent from a total loan amount of US$27.1 million.
3     In April 1990, at the Government's request, the project was amended, and
the savings reallocated into US$7.8 million for equipment and US$2.7 million for
technical assistance and consultant services. The funds for equipment were used
mainly to finance training sections in garment manufacturing and textile
industries. Subsequently, the closing date was extended to June 3,0 1992. In
order to conclude the loan by this date, the technical assistance component to
be financed by the sarings was transferred to the Second Vocational Training
Project (Loan 2779-MOR), which had already started.



- iv -
4    As a result of savings and transfer of the technical assistance to the
second project, US$3 million were cancelled in December 1991. At the closing of
the loan aecount in Novenber 20, 1992 another US$1.06 million remained unspent
and was cancelled.=
5      WNeither the total unspent amount of US$4.06 million nor the 18 months delay
sinificantly affected the project scope or implementation. The reallocation of
the savings allowed the project c&uantitative objectives to be exceeded, since 30
VTCs were built or equipped  instead of 22 planned at appraisal.   The
implementation of technical assistance components lagged behind schedule.
However, all the components except one study were ccrpleted at the loan closing
date.
I =OJECT ESLTS AND IMPACT
6     The main project objective of expansion of the vocational training capacity
was met. The enrollment capacitv increased by 6,630 instead of 4,775 planned, and
the additional number of graduates per year to 3,000 instead of 2,200. However,
the project's impact has not been as positive as expected.   The vocational
training graduates are currently experiencing serious difficulties in finding
employment due to a substantial mismatch between their number and the economy's
ability to absorb them, as well as between the diplomas they hold and the skills
that enterprises need. This result is due to a lack of relevance of training as
well as to a slower employment creation than anticipated in the project.
7     The technical assistance impact has also fallen short of expectations.
Many project qualitative objectives are still to be achieved.
SUSTAINABILITY
8     In the last few years, OFPPT's operational unit cost per student has
increased at a rate above inflation without clear evidence that quality was being
improved accordingly. To sustain and improve the project's economic impact,
future projects need to focus on the quality and relevance of training, and on
OFPPT's internal efficiency.
MAJOR LESSONS _Ufi=RED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9     The project has confirmed the unreliability of long-term forecasting of
labor market supply and demand, as compared to methods based on labor market
analysis and evolution.   In addition, vocational training needs cannot be
assessed outside the larger framework of the courtry's education system, and
without prior assessment of the labor market institutional and regulatory
framework.
10    The project has demonstrated that relevance of training and job placement
of the graduates depend mainly on the ability of the training system to adapt to
the changing needs of the economy. Future projects in Morocco should address
these issues by creating built-in adjustment mechanisms, aiming at making VTCs.
more autonomous and more responsive to their environment.



- v 
11    The supervision experience revealed that the project suffered from the lack
of a monitorable set of performance indicators. It has also emphasized the need
to set future performance targets for the project's main components at full
capacity.  This project did not have a mid-term review, but the availability of
such indicators would have permitted a more thorough project restructuring in
1-989, by making it easier to discuss with the Borrower to what extent the project
was meeting its objectives, to take the nenessary measures to ensure their
achievement in a timely fashion and to modify the project's content consequently.
12    The project his ailso revealed that the managerial efficiency of the OFPPT
could be improved by a reforu of the vocational training tax system. A more
effective system for allocating the tax would remedy the present lack of
incentives for efficiency improvement, and introduce competition for financial
resources among the vocational training providers.
13    The project implementation experience has suggested that Borrower ownership
is easier to insure for physical expansion and equipment components than for
technical assistance components aimed at qualitative objectives. This experience
suggests that, to be effective, a technical assistance component that deals with
policy issues at the national level should be considered as part of an overall
decision-making process. This process should have at least two pbqses: (i) the
carrying out of the studies on the one hand and (ii) consultation and preparation
of concrete measures to Laplement study recommendations on the other hand. The
project should make sure that 'an adequate structure for dialogue exists, and that
all actors concerned are consulted and involved in the process.
14    In Morocco as in many other places in the world, the mobile training has
proven to be a concept difficult to implement.  Its use should therefore be
carefully justified and limited to highly unusual situations.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
VOCATIONAL TRINNG PROJECT
-O n 2479-MOR)
PROJECT COMPLETION RIEPORT
. ~~PAB.T I .  PRlJRCT ERVEV FROH BANK'S PUERPKC2Iy«...................
1         PROJ2T IDENTITY
Project Name        First Vocational Training Project
Loan                2479 - MOR
RVP Unit            Middle East and North Africa
Country Department I
Country             Morocco
Sector              Education
Sub-sector          Technical and Vocational
2         PROJECT BACKGOUN
2.1       The conomic Contgst.  In the late 1970s and early 1)809 Morocco faced
many economic problems. Its gross domestic product was growing at a slow rate,
the population _dS increasing dramatically, fiscal and external imbalances
reached high levels after the 1979 drought and, according to different sources,
the x.semployment rate was high, varying between 22 and 30 percent. At the same
time, the country had to rely heavily on foreign technicians in certain areas.
It was believed that the lack of skilled manpower affected most industries and
constrained output growth.
2.2       In 19,80, the Government adopted a Development Plan for 1981-85 that was
deseribed as "a plan of economic recovery. I This plan was worked out under the
guidance of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank to switch from the
import substitution policy adopted in the 1970s to an export promotion policy.
The Plan clearly stated the importance that the Government attached to industrial
growth and private sector development. Among the incentives for such growth were
the reform measures adopted under an Industrial and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan,
the principal aim of which was to introduce structural changes in the incentives
system in order to eliminate the bias against export production, to lower
manufacturing costs, and hence to restore dynamism to the process of industrial
growth. It was perceived that one of the likely consequences of these measures
would be to foster growth of industrial employment.
2.3       The project was consequently prepared in a climate of concern about the
prevailing shortage of skilled manpower and the prospect for fast growth of
industrial employment. These views were shared by both Government and the World
Bank and reflected in the preparation of the Development Plan. Despite the
austerity in investment expenditures that characterized it, the 1981-85 Plan did
not compromise, however, on expenditures on education and training.



2
2.4        =nnower "eauirerents and Training Cagacity.  The country's capacity
for vocational training, including the project's proposed centers, was estimated
in 1984 at an annual 28,000 graduates, 57 percent oZ whom are trained by the
major public training agency, the Office for Vocational Training ard Employment
Promotion (Office de 1 Formation Professionnelle et de la Promotion du Travail,
OFPPT), and the remainder by other ministries, such as the Ministry of- Youth and
Sports aiid the Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform. The demand for
skilled manpower was projected to grow by an average of 106,000 per year between
1985 and 1995, which would leave the country with an annual deficit of 78,000
skilled workers. Although it was admitted that there were substantial needs for
vell trained. small business managers$ the most conspicuous shortage of skilled
manpower was expected to occur in the industry/miniug/utilities sector, where the
annual demand would exceed the supply by over 33,000, followed by services,
construction and agriculture with respective annual deficits of about 28,000,
13,000 and 4,000.
2.5       In 1984, a major reform of the vocational training system was adopted.
The reform's objective was to face the growing social demand for training and to
meet the requirements of the productive sector, based on the 1981-85 Plan
forecasts. The main components were (i) to increase the training capacity in
order to enroll the largest possible number of students, (ii) to improve quality
of the training and adapt it to the labor demand and (iii) to develop the
dialogue with employers and increase their participation to the management of the
system.
3        PRDJECT  UBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
3.1       To support the reform and address some of the management issues related
to public vocational training, the project objectives were:
3.1.1   to expand the OFPPTVs vocational training capacity consistent
with the country's future needs for skilled manpower by
supporting (i) the expansion of existing OFPPT skill training
programs, (li) the planning of future training activities in
the area of apprenticeship training certification, and small
enterprise management training, and (iii) pre-investment
design of specific vocational training components for possible
future projects;
3.1.2   to improve vocational training coordination by assisting in
the development of a coordination strategy for vocational
training among the various public and private agencies
involved in such training;
3.1.3  to contribute to the financial viability  of vocational
training by supporting a study on the policy options for
assuring the adequate financing of vocational training in the
future; and
3.1.4   to improve project selection and preparation in all sectors by
;      Dsupporting the development of a national-training program in
project preparation.



3
3.2       To achieve these objectives the project would finance:
3.2.1  construction, furnishing and equipping for 22 new industrial
VTCs (4700 training places) throughout the country for the
OFPPT skill training network;
-  32.2  instructional equipment and furniture for the new OFPPT
Instructor Training Center wt. ch-was then nearing completion
in Casablanca under Government financing;
3.2.3  five new Mobile Training Units to supplement the three OFPPT's
training units then in operation;-
3.2.4  technical assistance for conducting studies and developing
future training activities in the areas of apprenticeship and
training   certification,   training   coordination,   small
enterprise management training, financing of vocational
training, and future project preparation;
3.2.5   technical assistance in support of the OFPPT's new Instructor
Training Center in the areas of organization and management,
and introduction of audiovisual training methods; and
3.2.6  technical assistance for the development of a national program
in project selection and preparation, consisting of local
training seminars and instructional materials for the local
training seminars.
3.3       The project would be executed by three national agencies (i) the
Vocational and Staff Training Administration (Administration de la Formation
Professionnelle et de la Formation des Cadres, APPFC) for the studies dealing
with coordination and financing of the vocational training system and future
project preparation; (ii) the Ministry of Planning for the component 3.2.6 and
-the OFPPT for the remaining components. Both AFPFC and OFPPT are t='-er the
responsibility of the Ministry of Public Works, Vocational Training and Staff
Training, and AFPFC has supervision responsibility for OFPET's activities.
4          =RCJEGT DESIGN
4.1       This was the first Bank project in the vocational training sector in
Morocco; Preparation started in 1983 and the loan became effective in September
1985. As no reliable manpower data was available at that time, the project
design was flawed by shortcomings in four key areas.
4.2       Tbe Labor Maiket and Job Insertion.  The labor market was not closely
analyzed. The labor demand in Morocco is complex, offering conventional jobs,
self employment, emigration opportunities, and a wide range, though not well
known, employment prospects in the informal and traditional sectors. However,
the justifications provided for the projected skilled manpower demand used only
the long-term manpower planning model which does not allow for this complexity.
In addition, this model's underlying assumptions are obviously not valid for
Morocco, in particulat that wages are freely set by the market, that there is no



4
lack of intermediation, and that there are no regulatory constraints on job
creation and technology is constant over a long period of time. On the supply
side, the SAR implicitly considered the public vocational training system as the
major supply source for skilled manpower. This was unrealistic and has proven
wrong. The private sector's capacity grew from 11,000 to 34,000 over the project
period, and higher education has also expanded rapidly.
4.3       The project did not place ennugh emphasis on the job insertion of the
graduates and the efficiency of the training programs in meeting-the objectives
set forth. It was expected that the vocational training centers would benefit
from the feedback provided by the newly created Regional Training Councils on the
relevance and effectiveness of their training, -To be- able to -adapt accordingly
to the Regional Training Councils' possible directives, the VTCs needed to be
granted more autonomy and to have their mission and responsibilities extended to
include the job placement and tracing of their graduates. Both conditions were
overlooked by the project.
4.4       Managerial and External Efficiencies.  The project did not include
components aimed at improving the management efficiency, the cost-effectiveness
or the resource allocation procedures of the new centers, even though one of the
project objectives was to insure the financial viability of the vocational
training system. OFPPT's training activities were described in the SAR as "of
high quality and vigorously and efficiently managed". However, this quality was
achieved when its size was relatively small, and the management capacity of OFPPT
to cope with the important growth introduced by the project was not analyzed.
4.53      The project design failed at diversifying OFPPT's training activities
and at making these activities more responsive to enterprises needs. The lack
of use of shorter training programs is the most prominent example. The Borrower
tended to perpetuate its practices by concentrating investments on its most
important activity, the two-year pre-service skill training program. At the same
time, there was an obvious need to support the mechanisms for employer
involvement in the development of on-the-job contractual training services. This
was not done.
4.o       Proiect Sco2e.   The project placed too much emphasis on physical
expansion and not enough on the objectives of improving the vocational training
coordination and contributing to its financial viability. The construction of
the 22 VTCs did meet the objective of capacity expansion, since it increased the
number of places within OFPPT's existing industrial training facilities by 68
percent, or 25 percent of its total training capacity. The objectives to improve
the vocational training coordination and to contribute to its financial viability
were much less emphasized and addressed only through the financing of two
studies.
4.7       Lack of Indicators. The last imperfection in the project design, which
made supervision uneasy throughout the project life, is related to the lack of
key monitoring indicators for the project implementation period, as well as the
lack of specific performance targets at full capacity. Many of the project's
important aspects such as the unit costs, the job insertion of graduates and the
mobile training unit component had no specific targets at all. Although a few
indicators were mentioned in the Bank internal documents, they could not be used
-effectively because the -Borrower had not been previously informed and had not



5
agreed on their use. In several occasions during project implementation, this
lack of indicators created misunderstandings and difficulties in the supervision
process.
5         PRQ.JZCL 1LD1YMENThflON
5.1       Except for one study, all the project components have been complete'
The training centers were generally completed well ahead of schedule, due to the-
high mobilization of the OFPPT's staff.  The studies and technical assistance
components did not follow the same pace. Although the terms of reference were
prepared be-tre tb8 project approval,. most, of the studies lagged far behind the -
initial schedule. The Borrower did not feel in that case the same pressure as
for the training centers, and was not as highly motivated.
5.2       Substantial savings on the loan utilization have been realized.
Favorable economic circumstances and prices in the Moroccan construction sector,
exchange rate gains and workshop dimension standardization led to a significant
decrease in the construction unit cost. Total savings for construction amounted
to US$2.3 million.  For equipment, 13 trainlng sections were financed by EEC for
a total amount of US$1.3 million. For consultant services, a US$0.4 million
provision for future projects preparation was not used because a study had not
been carried out.
5.3       Project Amendments.  In mid-1989, the project was 80 percent completed
and its closing date scheduled for December 31, 1990. To complete totally the
project as appraised, only an additional US$3.3 million would have been needed.
As a result of the savings and at completion of the project, US$10.5 million
including the US$6.5 million of unallocated funds were then expected to remain
unspent from a total loan amount of US$27.1 million.
5.4       In August 1989, the Government requested the reallocation of the
savings in US$7.8 million for equipment and US$2.7 million for technical
assistance and consultant services. The funds for equipment would be used mainly
to finance training sections in the textile and garment manufacturing industries.
The technical assistance and consultant services would help (i) the AFPFC to
conduct manpower studies, (ii) reorganize the OFPPT and (iii) improve its
managerial capabilities.
5.5       Although the textile sector had not been included in the project, the
proposal was consistent with its overall objectives. - Before approving the
Government's proposal, the Bank made an assessment of the training needs of the
textile and garment manufacturing industries which revealed that (i) this sector
was responsible for more than 50 percent of the jobs created in manufacturing
industries and (ii) the establishment of the textile training centers was based
on a request from the Moroccan Textile Industry Association, which presumably was
familiar with the labor demand of its members. In April 1990, the Bank gave the
Borrower its formal approval for the amendment of the project and the
reallocation of the unspent loan balance. This approval was accompanied by a
strong recommendation to the OFPPT to sign an agreement with the Moroccan Textile
Industry Association, aiming at involving the textile professionals in the
management of the training centers, developing curricula and promoting the job
insertion of the graduates-



6
5.6       Subsequently, the closing date was extended to December 31, 1991.  In
December 1991, to take into account the longer than expected time needed for the
completion of the bid for textile equipment, the closing date was extended a
second time to June 30, 1992.  In order to conclude-the loan by this date, the
technical assistance component to be financed by the unspent balance was
transferred to the ongoing Second Vocational Training Project (Loan 2779-MOR).
5.7      As a result of the project amendment, US$3 million were cancelled in
December 1991.  At the closing of the loan account in November 20, 1992 another
US$1.06 million remained unspent and was cancelled.
5.8      At the time of preparation of the PCR, the project was completod, and
neither the total urspent amount of US$4.06 million nor the 18 months -delay
significantly affected the project scope or implementation. The single risk that
was anticipated with the project was that implementation could be slowed down by
budgetary shortages in the context of the Government austerity program. This
risk did not materialize and, as seen before, actual disbursement went much
faster than planned, especially in the first years of implementation.
6        PROJECT RESULTS AND OUTCOME
6.1       Project Ouantitative Objectives.   The main project objective of
expansion of the training capacity was met and in some aspects exceeded, since
the use of the project savings made possible the construction and the equipment
of 8 vocational training centers in addition to the 22 initially planned.
Consequently, the enrollment capacity increased by 6,630 instead of 4,775
planned, and the additional nunber of graduates per year to 3,000 instead of
2,200. The project also achieved a further diversification and decentralization
of the vocational training system, particularly after the creation of the textile
centers of Beni Msik.
6.2      The Instructor Training Center component has also led to a more
sophisticated structure than planned, the National Institute for Training and
Pedagogic Research (Institut National de Formation et de Recherche Pedagogique -
INFRP). The INFRP mandate encompasses initial training and upgrading of OFPPT's
instructors, research in training methods, production of educational materials
and management of the OFPPT's training equipment.   The INFRP has also an
inspection and evaluation mandate.   In the last 3 years, the INFRP offered
initial training for about 75 instructors a year against 50 planned at appraisal,
while about 930 others followed a one-month refresher course. Because of the
difficulty to recruit instructors with relevant industrial experience, the INFRP
also organizes on-the-job skills upgrading programs for instructors consisting
in training periods in enterprises. In 1991, 250 instructors participated in
this program which in average lasted two weeks.
6.3      Mobile Training Units.  The OFPPT was aware of the limitations of the
decentralization strategy to bring training capacity to a large number of small
concentrations of demand, particularly in rural areas, and had introduced the use
of three mobile units which were perceived as a feasible alternative.  As part
of the project, 5 new Mobile Training Units (MTU) were acquired by the OFPTT in
June 1985, and managed by a special section. Their areas of specialization were
as follows: Automobile and Agriculture Mechanics (2 units), Steel-Work and



7
Welding, Industrial and Building Electricity, Radio and Television Maintenance.
The operating mode was simple: instructor and complete training equipment moved
around together in vehicles designed to be the training milieu. The MTU provided
three different types of traiuing: initiation sessions which last 6 to 10 weeks,
skill training sessions in 20 to 30 weeks and skill upgrading sessions varying
in length according to needs.
6.4       The mobile training has not been.successful in Morocco.  The average
utilization rates of tho units were generally low, varying from a maximum of 62
percent for the Mechanics units to as low as 10 percent for the Steelwork and
Welding, and Radio and Television Maintenance units.   Many reasons have
contributed to the poor result of this component: lack of preparation, failure
to.adapt training matelials, equipment and instructors to the specific needs of
agricultural areas, lack of funds for essential items, excessive centralization
and presumably political interference in the deployment of the units.   In
addition, there is no mechanism of training certification related to the mobile
training. Even the skill training session which lasts relatively long do not
lead systematically to a diploma. Before 1989, 771 students among the 2,383 who
participated to this training were authorized to take an exam, and 587 of them
obtained the Vocational Training Certificate. This provision is no longer in
effect since 1989.
6.5       Technical Assistance and Consultant Services.   Contrary to the
project's physical aspects, and with a few exceptions, the achievement of the
studies and technical assistance goals have fallen short of the planned ones.
Apprenticeship training certification, coordination of activities and financial
viability of vocational training were among the proj ect' s qualitative objectives
and are still today on the Borrower's agenda. Various reasons contributed to
this shortfall: (i) failure of the Borrower to develop and maintain a dialogue
among all the institutions concerned by vocational training, (ii) lack of quality
control and review of the studies, and (iii) failure of the Bank to create
Government ownership of the ideas and reforms.
6.6       Lack of Dialogue.  The studies' objectives were to assist in the
development of strategies related to specific vocational training issues. The
lack of a national coordinating agency, and therefore of a fruitful dialogue
among all the institutions involved in vocational training (public and private
training sectors and enterprises), prevented the translation of the studies
recommendations into concrete measures.  The AFPFC and OFPPT, which were in
charge of carrying out the studies were not in the best position to play this
coordination role, as they only represent part of the public training sector.
For example, the studies dealing with apprenticeship and financing, had
objectives and impact that required consultation with all institutions concerned,
and politi-al commitment and decision-making at national level. However, many
institutions such as the enterprises, and the private and other public training
agencies, which accounted for more than 50 percent of the national vocational
training capacity, were not involved.   The Ministry of Planning, while it
existed, was not mandated either to play this coordination role, and the National
Training Council (Commission Nationale de Formation) did not have the
institutional capabilities to do so.
6.7       Lack of Quality Control.   Most of the studies were carried out
according to an invariable patterrn: a foreign expert was selected, performed his



8
task almost in isolation and left the country after delivering a report. Neither
the Bank nor the Borrower maintained close supervision on the consultant's work,
no local consultant was ever involved and no study tour for the decision-makers
was organized. In most cases, this led to disappointing results.
6.8       Lack of Ownership.  The Government did not take ownership of most of-
the tecbnical assistance, with one exception. In the case of the technical
assistance component for development of a national program in project selection
and preparation, however, the ingredients to create ownership were present: (i)
full involvement and participation of local officials from the beginning, (ii)
training within EDI for. a group of civil servants and (iii) creation of a
monltoring committee to which the Bank participated along with Government
officials representing various ministries and agencies involved in the project.
This project component has led to the creation of a permanent administrative
structure, the National Project Analysis Program (Programme National d'Analyse
de Projets - PNAP), with mandate to organize seminars and training workshops and
produce technical handbooks.   More than 500 Moroccan officials have so far
benefitted from the training and expertise provided by PNAP.
6.9       In 1989, the Bank decided to carry out a subsector review of the VT
system. This decision was taken because it became clear that, although all the
studies and technical assistance components had been completed since early 19A3,
the lack of an efficient dialogue dnd decision-making process was hinderx1.i
dealing with the major issues raised by the studies.   This sector work was
completed in April 1989, and focussed on the set of actions that should be given
priority consideration by the Government. The main proposals concerned the
reform of the vocational training payroll tax, the involvement of employers in
training, the development of labor market information, the establishment of an
Employment and Training Policy Board, and the encourager-ut of the private
training sector. The document was sent to the Government, and the subsequent
discussions with the Bank showed that the Government did not share all the Bank
opinions on the issues, and Was not ready, at that time, to consider the
implementation of the proposed strategy. However, clear signals were given to
the Bank that the reform proposals would be taken into consideration in any
future attempt to rethink the VT system.
6.10      Project Impact on Emloyment.   The quantitative estimates of the
national demand for skilled manpower for 1985-95 were too optimistic, which made
the actual annual shortage of skilled workers less critical than expected. Due
to the drastic slow-down in employment creation in the industrial sector, the
total non-agricultural jobs created by the Moroccan economy between 1985 and 1991
averaged 130,000 a year, only 30 percent of which in the industrial sector. By
assuming that half of thie jobs created are for skilled workers, we end up with
20,000 jobs a year suitable for the vocational training graduates, which is less
than half the number estimated in the SAR.
6.11      Consequently,  a high unemployment rate is prevailing among the
vocational training graduates. A census made in 1991 by the "Co..seil National
de la Jeunesse et Avenir" (CNJA) showed that 20,854 technicians, carrying the
highest level of vocational training diplomas, were unemployed. This means that
between 1981, when the training of technicians first started, and 1990, only two-
thirds of the technicians have managed to find a job. Moreover, 4,455 of the
positions identified by the CNJA7 through an intermediation effort remained



9
unfilled because the unemployed technicians' skills did not correspond to the job
descriptions.
6.12     According to the annual OFPPT surveys 10 months after graduation,
unemployment is not concerning technicians only, and all vocational training
graduates are equally affected. The average insertion rate for the graduating
classes has-been as follows: 23 percent in 1988, 28 percent in 1989, 24 percent
in 1990 and 40 percent in 1991. The survey sample does not include the training
areas corresponding to the sectors with which the OFPPT has signed an agreement,
namely the. textile, garment, leather and graphic arts sectors. The insertion
rate for those sectors is 90 percent according to OFPPT, but they represent less
than 10 percent of the-graduates.
6.13     Among those who were reported as employed in the OFPPT's 1991 survey,
only 50 percent were employed on a permanent basis.  The salary -distribution
reflects clearly job.precariousness: 45 percent of the employed earned less than
the legal minimum wage, and 80 percent less than 1.5 times the legal minimum
wage.
7     P    OJECT SUSTAINABILITY
7.1      During the last four years, the OFPPT's operational unit costs per
student increased at an average rate of 14 percent a year, well above the
inflation rate. Despite a better recovery and rate increase in the vocational
training tax, the OFPPT's recurrent budget is now covered at 75 percent by the
receipts from the training tax, against 100 percent in 1984. The study on the
vocational training financial viability has identified 3 areas with significant
potential for action: (i) rationalization of the utilization of available
resources, (ii) diversification of the financing sources mainly by extending the
tax basis to public enterprises, and (iii) improvement of the resource allocation
system. The OFPPT is now implementing some of the study's recommendations with
the financial help of the Bank through the Second Vocational Training Project.
8        MJOR LESSONS LEARNED
8.1      Labor Market Forecasts.  The Bank should have been more cautious with
its estimates of manpower demand and supply. The project seems to have been
driven by the logic of the long-term manpower planning model, coupled with the
conviction that vocational training graduates would be readily absorbed by the
labor market. This type of long-term forecasting based on a head count had
already proven inadequate.   The approach to planning that has become more
commonly used is based on labor market analyses and has more modest, short-term
goals. Its accuracy depends, however, on the availability of data from household
surveys such as the LSMS, enterprise surveys, tracer studies and, more generally,
good sector work.  These necessary tools must be developed in our partner-
countries and within the Bank. In addition, given the complexity of the issues
involved, it has become very risky to design a vocational training project
outside the larger framework of the country's education system, and without prior
in-depth assessment of the prevailing labor market institutional and regulatory
framework, particularly as regards the wage system, labor regulations and the
relationsip- between training supply and labor demand.



10
8.2       External Efficiency.  The Moroccan vocational training system has not
been able to adapt rapidly to its changing environment. For instance, attention
is still almost exclusively on long pre-employment training when shorter in-plant
and contractual training serviees have been demonstrated to be more successful.
As a result, the vocational training graduates are currently experiencing serious
difficulties in finding employment, due to a substantial mismatch between their
number and the economy's ability to absorb them, as well- as between the diplomas
they hold and the skills that enterprises need. In this respect, two issues have
to be addressed in. future project design in Morocco: the relevance of training
and the job placement of the graduates. Future projects should deal with these
issues by introducing structural changes aimed at (i) making VTCs more
autonomous, and (ii) introducing strong built-in ties with employers.
8.3       The asurement of Performance.  Though the quality of training and
internal efficiency of the OFPPT were considered to be high at project appraisal,
more attention should have been paid to maintain this level of performance
considering the large expansion of capacity over a relatively short period of
time. In particular, the project should have put more emphasis on (i) developing
indicators for quality assessment and (ii) setting future targets for these
indicators. Because such indicators had not been developed, the extent to which
the project would achieve its qualitative objectives was not fully assessed
during the 1989 restructuring.
8.4       Managerial Efficieney.   The OFPPT is evolving in a public sector
environment characterized by budgetary reliance and lack of competition for
resources. OFPPT's managerial ability would benefit from the introduction of an
institutional reform modifying the vocational training tax allocation to (i)
provide incentives for efficiency improvement and (ii) introduce competition for
financial resources among vocational training providers.
8.5       Ownershio  of  the Technical Assistance  Coqonent.    The project
implementation experience has suggested that Borrower ownership is easier to
insure for physical expansion and equipment components than for technical
assistance components aimed at qualitative objectives. This experience suggests
that, to be effective, a technical assistance component that deals with policy
issues at the national level should be considered as part of an overall decision-
making process. In this particular project, this process should have started
when the studies' recommendations became available and continued until the final
political decision has not been specified. As an alternative design, we suggest
a two-phases process consisting of the carrying out of the studies on the one
hand and the consultation and preparation of concrete measures on the other hand.
During the first phase, the Borrower should exert a close supervision and quality
control on the outcome. Particular attention should also be paid to the mix of
foreign and local expertise in order to take account of the country
specificities.   The second phase should be that of dialogue to prepare the
Government's decision. The project should ensure that an adequate structure
exists or is created to coordinate this dialogue and that all actors concerned
are consulted and involved in the decision process.
8.6       Mobile Training Units.  In Morocco as in many other places in the
world, mobile training has proven to be a concept difficult to implement. Its
use should therefore be carefully justified and limited to highly unusual
situations.



11
9        PROJECT DOCUMENTAION AND BANK PERFORMANCE
9.1      A few documents from the early stages of the project life were not
available when the present PCR was written. The supervision reports focused
heavily on the project's first component, construction, equipment delivery,
disbursements and audit reports. They remained silent on the policy discussions
which took place.      -
9.2      The Second Vocational Iraining Project followed so quickly that the
lessons learned from the first project could not be incorporated in it. In- 1987,
the Bank missions started combining the supervision of the two projects, and as
one can guess, in the following aide-mimoires, the project was -relegated. to a
second priority position. This seems to indicate that it received as well second
priority in the task manager's time and interest. In addition, the reallocation
of the loan unspent balance and the procurement for the textile bids were time
consuming and the evaluation of this new component had to be done to the
detriment of normal supervision time.
9.3      The dialogue with the Borrower has also been affected by the high Bank
staff turnover. From appraisal to the PCR mission, the project has had five task
managers. This high staff turnover might be the result of the combination of
frequent Bank reorganizations and the rapid expansion of the Bank's Population
and Human Resources activities in the recent past.
10       BORROWE  PERPORMANCE
10.1     The implementation of the project by the three executing agencies was
satisfactory. Procurement, disbursements and reporting were done efficiently and
the quality and availability of project related documentation was excellent.
11       PROJECT RELATIONSHIP
11.1     Bank relationship with the Ministry of Planning, the AFPFC and the
OFPPT on the project has been good.



12
PART It.  PROGRAM REEW 11OM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
-IDENTIFICATION OF THE PECir
COUNTRY                         Kingdom of Morocco
PROJECT TITLE                   Extension of the capacity of the
Vocational Training system
EXECUTING AGENCY                Office of Vocational Traiuin&g.and
Promotion of Labor (OFPPT)
LOAN NUMBER                     Loan No. 2479-MOR
PROJECT DESCRIPTION             Construction   of   22   Vocational
Training Centers (VTC)
Acquisition of five new mobile
training units
Equipment of 22 VTCs
Technical Assistance
COST OF PROJECT                 US$41,600,000 (Actual cost)
AMOUNT OF LOAN                  US$27,100,000
EFFECTIVE DATE                  7/19/85
PROJECT CLOSING DATE            12/31/90, extended until 6/30/92



13
2        WITHDRAWL OP FUNDS
The table below provides the categories for the work, supplies, and
services financed by the loan, the allocated amount, and the authorized financing
for each category:
Category             Allocated amounts          Percentage of
in $US          expenditure financed
(1) Civil engineering work           7,700,000             45 percent
for part A of the project
(2) Architect services for             300,000             17 percent
part A of the project        ,                            -_,_l,
(2) Furniture, vehicles,           11,200,000       100 percent of expen-
and equipment for parts A,                           diture in foreign
B (i) and C of the project                           exchange and
65 percent of
expenditure in
domestic currency
(4) Consultant services                400,000      100 percent of the
from Parts B (ii),                                   foreign exchange
B (iii), D (iii), and                                component and
(Div) of the Project                                80 percent of the
i._____________________                              component  in  dirhams
(5) Consultant services                400,000
for parts D (i), D (ii),
and D (v) of the Project
(6) Supplies and services              400,000
for part E of the project
(7) Commission                          67,581                 -
(8) Unallocated                      6,632,419
Total             27,100,000
The term "expenditure in foreign exchange' designates outlays made for
supplies or services coming from the territory of any country other than the
borrower's country and paid in the currency of any country other than the
borrower's country.
The term 'expenditure in domestic currency' designates outlays made in
the borrower's currency or pertaining to supplies or services coming from the
borrower's territory.
3         PURPOSE OF THE PROJECT
3.1       The purpose of the project is to assist the borrower in:



14
3.1.1   Intensifying and improving its vocational training activities;
3.1.2   Improving the coordination of vocational training;
3.1.3   Ensuring the financial viability of vocational training;
3.1.4   Improving project preparation in the pertinent sectors.
3.2       The project includes the following components:
3.2.1   Voca4onal Training Centers (VTC).  Construction of 22 new
Vocational Training Centers under the Office .and supply of the
necessary furniture and equipment.
3.2.2  Jknstructor rraining Cnters. (ITC:.
(i)   Supplying educational materials and furniture needed at the
Casablanca Office's Instructor Training Center (INFRP);
(ii) Developing an organizational and management structure for this
Instructor Training Center;
(iii) Introducing audiovisual training methods into the training
program of six ITCs.
3.2.3   Mobile Training Units (MTU). Purchase of five mobile training
units.
3.2.4   Training and Studies Pr9grams
(i) Conducting a study aimed at formulating a strategy to improve
coordination of the training activities of the various public and
private agencies responsible for vocational training (Domiciliation:
AFPPC);
(ii) Conducting a study on strategies to provide adequate financing
for vocational training activities, including self-financing of the
Office's operating costs (Domiciliation: AFPFC);
(iii) Formulation of an apprenticeship development strategy and a
justification   system  for  small  business  management   skills
(Domiciliation: OFPPT);
(iv) Development of a small business management training program
(Domiciliation: OFPPT);
(v) Conducting of pre-investment studies aiming at future components
of vocational training projects (Domiciliation: AFPFC).
3.2.5   Preparation o- gfrojects.   Development and execution of a
training program for identification, preparation, and evolution of
projects for the managerial staff of all ministries and public
agencies (Domiciliation:  Ministry of Planning).



15
4         INITIAL PIOGRAM DOMICILED WIIH THk  O= PPT
4.1                 2=2ieW of comonepts:
4.1.1   Conatructlon and equipment of 22 VTCs having a total 188
sections, or 4,780 training places (25 places per section);
-4.1.2  Purchase of five mobile training units (MTU);.
4.1.3  Equipment of the IXFRP;
4.1,4  Technical assistance:
(i)   Start-up assistance for the INFRP;
(ii)  Apprenticeship system;
(Iiii) Small and medium-scale enterprise management training;
(iv)  Instructor training method;
The loan is in the amount of US$27,100,000, US$19,600,000 of which is
allocated to the components domiciled with the OFPPT, and US$6,700,000 of which
is unallocated.
US$800,000 of the loan is allocated to the AFPPC and the Ministry of
Planning.
4.2       Phsical situation:
4.2.1   Constrution  and e9uiment of 22 VTCs.   In accordance with
Section 3.07 of the loan agreement (Project Execution), the OFPPT has
purchased the land to be used for the 22 operations programmed under
the project.
All of the planned VTCs have been executed, with World Bank financing.
The table below provides the location of the VTCs, number of training
places, start date, training level, number of laureates trained, and
the number of sections.



16
Provinea       Locality and   Level            Nuber of training   Start         No. of   Nuber of
stblish-                        places                date        teur-    sections
menta                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eatec
train-   S    V      ?
Mohamedis   *lhanmdla          S.   V           s 50   I50           Jan 1916    -765      2    6    -
Cud.           Wkw*            S   -      =     25     150      -    Jan 1986      413     1    6
irr.e Echid.    COUlem         S    V           50       O   -       Jan 1986       2      2 _6
R.            Ain Borj         S    V           75     215           Sep 1986    l181    3       9
..   .-  .    .  - Ai    S d                                -     -                                         -         
Ban Isik       Ren Nlsk        S    v           50     250           Jan 1986     1145     2    10
Sidi Othman              ___
Khourtbga        uaS I                    =     25     125    -      Sep 1986      363     1  _5
Sl6           SaA6 I           S    v    -      75     125    -      sep1986       589     3     5
fara    |TbTra                 S    V           so     200           Sep 1986      767     2    8
Kh.m.tset     Khd8i iowt       S    V           100    145           Sep 1986      761     4    6
taounate      Taotmete         S    V    T    25       125    90    Sep1986        381     1    5    2
Et N.I.b       El NaJeb        S    v           50     100           Sep 1986      315     2    4    -
Sidi Kae      Ouazzane         S    V    T      75     150    60    Sep 1986       640     3    6    1
Taza           Taza            S    V    -    100    145    -        Nov 1986      661     4    6
Ouarzezat      Tinghfr         S    V    _      50     150           Sep 1987      321     2    6
Tiznit        Tiznit           S    V    T      25     175    60    Sep 1988       522     1    7    1
Chacuen        ch_tn           S    v           75     125 _         Sep 1989      297     3    5    -
Larache    K|     r El         S    v           75     125           Sep 1988      332     3    5
K      § (ebRr        -         -}   -l    -                                          -    -    - 
Ddni Netltal   Souk Essebt    S    V             o 50  125    -      Jan 1988      411     2    5
Sidi Kacem    Sidi Kacesm      S    V   _       75     150           Sep 1989      288     3    6    -
Settat    | Berrachid          S    V    -             1 50    -;S   1989          231     2    6    -
Itfrane       Azrou            S    v           75  | 100            Oct 1989      199     3    4
Cass Anf    I Anfa (Polo)        |        -          S |   V40       Jan 1990      596     7    2    -
It400   3170   210               11742     56   128   4
TOTALS                 -   -  -
_________ _________ _________ ________4780                                         188
S    Specialization
V    Vocational Level
T D Technical Level



17
Completion of this project has made it possible to reinforce
the vocational training system through the creation of 22 training
establishments with a eapacity of 4,780 training places, or 11.4
percent of the overall accommodation capacity.
Training is distributed as -follows by levels:
Technician level (T)  210 places                  -
Vocational level (V) 3170 places
Specialized level (S)1400 places
The decision to create traintng establishments under the
project made it possible to break away from the concentration of
training activities in the major cities and to begin a policy of
regionalization to meet the needs of the local and regional vocational
communities for qualified manpower.
In choosing the sectors, emphasis was placed on production-
intensive sectors and maintenance and repair, to improve the
companies' profitability by supplying qualified staff and to keep the
productive apparatus in good operating order.
The output from these establishments also provides clear
incentives for vocational training laureates to create small- and
medium-scale enterprises in the localities involved.
Similarly, the opening of these establishments to their
immediate environment has given -a new dimension to continuing
education for workers and managers of small-and medium-scale
enterprises, for whom these establishments provided the means which
they needed to improve their technical and management knowledge and
know-how.
4.2.2   Mobile Training Units.  The five mobile training units were
opened according to the following f;cnedule:
- Two since end-November 1985;
- Three since February 1986.
The Mobile Training Units acquired under the project made it possible
to:
- Meet the training needs of rural areas and individual enterprises;
- Provide rural areas with the qualified labor which they need to
develop;
- Help curtail the rural exodus by training youth in these areas.
These units intervene as a priority in rural areas of Morocco's
different provinces in order to meet locally expressed needs.



18
The two tables below provide a summary of the activities which these
units have carried out since they opened.
4.2.3   Technical assistance:   The technical assistance activities
domiciled with the OFPPT programmed under the project were fully
completed.
The goals and results of each study (see summary sheets attached) can
be summarized as follows .
a. Study of th, deve Boi=ment of teaching methods based on the
use of. &WU0gyXual resources. The study assigned -to the -ILO began in
May 1987 and lasted 12 months.  At the end of this operation, the
expert reached the established goals, as follows:
- Organization of a didactic resources service (DRS) of the INFRP;
- Identification of adapted methods for integrating didactic supports
into training programs and their use by instructors;
- Purchase of the didactic materials necessary to carry out the
programs;
- Development of guides for the production and use of didactic
materials;
- Organization of internships and seminars on the production and use
of audiovisual supports for 155 instructors.
It must be pointed out that the ILO assigned an initial expert to this
study, who was unable to complete the assignment. The OFPPT therefore
requested that the expert be replaced.
The second expert appointed by the ILO carried out the assignment
during the 12 months set out in the contract, and the OFPPT
justifiably deems that the ILO should not receive payment for the
amount corresponding to the period served by the first expert.
b. Studt on the organization of instructpr tLAihing: The study
conducted in November 1985 brought to light the need to establish the
INFRP as the institute in charge of instructor training and conducting
pedagogic studies.   It also developed its rules of procedure,
documents concerning training management, and lists of audiovisual
equipment to be acquired.
c. Study on the develosment gf VpsrenticeshiR in Morocco:
This study began in September 1986, for a period of 6 months. The
results led to the development of a draft law on apprenticeship and a
draft decree on combined vocational training. These draft laws were
supported by two reporte pertaining to the development of alternate
vocational training activities in Morocco ("apprenticeship" and
"combined vocational training").



19
Based on the results of this study, the OFPPT in 1988 began a pilot
experiment for alternate vocational training which involved 380
trainees in 1991, with plans to involve as many as 5,000. trainees
by 1993.
d.   qt  9 management t_aina ng for sma}l- and medium-scala
enterpises: This study, which was assigned to the IL, was completed
in 12 months, during the period February 1987-February 1988.
The goals of the operation consisted of:
-.Identifying needs --
- Designing and developing pedagogic materials;
- Executing and evaluating a pilot program;
- Training counterparts.
The Expert's recommendations were implemented by the OFPPT, leading to
the creation of the Management Activities Unit within the Enterprise
Services Department.
4.3       Accountingx status of the loan (Initial- Program)
- Loan amount             US$27.1 million
- Total expenditure       USCl6.6 million
- Unspent credit balance US$10.5 million
Initial program expenditure is itemized in the accounting statement
provided as an annex.
Comments In respect of the unspent credit balance
The application of the funds made available by the IBRD led to unspent
credit balances justified as follows for each program component:
4.3.1   Constructig    The normalization of shop dimensions led to
savings in respect of the initially-planned expenditure.
The OFPPT also obtained advantageous competitive prices from the
national construction market.
4.3.2 Eqgpment. Savings resulted from the financing of 47 sections
initially planned under the project, with 13 sections covered by the
European Community and 34 sections by the General Government Budget
(See Annex 3).
* General Government Budget (GGB)



20
The distribution of the 47 sections and their costs (European Community and the
General  Government Budget  financing)  are listed in detail  in the  table below:
.           . ___                     _- _                              . -. _   ._                   =.
Equipment       No.         Total    Tiz-    Ting-    Souk   Chad-    Kear       Ber-     Sidi    Cost in
Sections    SQc-     nit     hir      Es-      cuen    Et        re-      Ka-     thousands
Sectors         used        tions   YTC      VTC       sebt    VTC      Kebir   chfd      cem    of
VtC              VTC      VTC      VTC    dirhams
EC   GGB     -        -        -
Maintenance    2    4       6        1        1        1                1        t        I 1/    6,000
electricity   ___.
RTV reir         .               .  1-  -                                                  -      140
Auto            2    3      5        1        1        1                         1j/      t /    1,750
Electricity                   . -
Agricutture          I      I        1                                                            1.200
Refrigera-
tion
engineering  -  -                      -    -    -  -                     -    -
eclding         -   2       2        1   _1                                                       1 600
Body work       1    2      3        1                         1                          1      1,400
Painting        -     -       -        -
Building             I      1        1                                                              400
Design                                                  ______. __
Building        1    3      4        1        1                         1        1jl                750
Electricity     _                                            
Auto            1    3      4                 1        t                1        1 /              1,350
Mechanics
Wood                 3      3        1        1        1                                          1,050
finishing
Cabinet
imkin                                                                                            _ _____
Masonry              1      1                 1                                                    150
Two-phase            3      3                 1        1                1                           750
mechanics                 I
Agricultural   1    2       3                          1                1                 1 1J    1,350
mechanics                  _________
Plumbing             2      2          -       -                        1 t                 -       400
Sheet metat    2    2       4                          1                1        1        1/  t I/    2,600
Boi ter works
Industrial      1    1      2                                                    1 y      1       1,200
pipes_..
Metal frames   1            I          -        -                                1y                 600
Garments        1    .      1                                   lj/                                 800
(warp/weft)                                                                                 _
13   34     47       9       8        7       3         7        7        6       24,750
1/Sections acquired under the EC framework.



21
5         UNSPEENT CREDIT BALANCE APPLICATION PROGRAM
The application program proposed by the Office for the use of the
unspent credit balance covers the following components:
Components                 Amount in dollars           Beneficiary
Furniture, materials,              7,800,000 2                  OFPPT
and vehicles
Consultant services                2,000,000                    OFPPT
.700,000        -           AFPFC
Total         10,500,000                         .  _
The OFPPT has provided financing for land and the construction of seven
establishments and one extension for the execution of this program.
5.1       Descriptn of the unaDent crgdit balance proEram
5.1.1   gcuinment.  The program involves the equipment of:
- 5 establishments + 1 extension (Technical Specialist level)
- 2 establishments (Vocational level)
Establishments      Type of operation    No. of sections      Level
ITA Confection Sen Msik      C                   11           Technical Specialist
ITA Textile                  C                    4           Technical Specialist
Ben nsik                                                                         l
ITA Nohamuedia               C                    5           Technical Specialist
ITA Hay Hossans              C                    7           Technical Specialist
ITA El Jadida 11             C                    3           Technical Specialist
ITA Kenitra                  E                    2           Technical Specialist
VTC KUnitra III              C                    8           Vocational
VTC Figuig                   C                    4           Vocational
Total               C: Creation                   44
I E: Extension      I
2/N.B.:   Of which US$4.7 million allocated to the purchase of garment and
textile equipment, represent-ing 60 percent of the overall amount
allocated to equipment.



22
5.1.2   Technical assistance
The goals of the studies requested under the unspent credit balance
program are summarized as follows:
- Management of audiovisual didactic resources and training in
educational technology;
- Implentation of the OFPPT. vocational orientation system;
- Adaptation of the methodology for developing profile directories and
training programs in respect of the OFPPT;
- Restructuring and development of the OFPPT's management capacity.
5.2       Justification of the  grogram proposed within the context of the
unspent credit balance
5.2.1 EQUIPNENT
Textfle/gArment sector:
A. Macroeconomic framework
The Moroccan textile sector employs more than one third of the work
force in the processing industries and encompasses approximately twenty branches
of activities ranging from the preparation of raw materials to ready-made
articles. It includes more than 1,200 units.
This industry employs over 120,000 persons and makes it possible to
cover Morocco's clothing needs.
It must be pointed out that the European Economic Community is the
leading supplier to the Moroccan textile industry with nearly 55 percent of the
imported volume, not including equipment and chemicals.
Moreover, the Moroccan textile industry is undergoing rapid
modernization through the acquisition of equipment relying on new technologies
with a view to increasing its production and improving the quality of its
products, using advanced technologies:
- Automatic cutting system (laser, water jet, ultrasound);
- Computer assisted design system (CAC) for garments;
- Automation of spinning and weaving shops.
However, in spite of the results which have been achieved, the textile
industry, which is Morocco's number one job creator, suffers from a chronic
shortage of qualified personnel (supervisory staff and skilled manpower).
To correct this situation, manufacturers are often required to use
foreign technical supervision, which is particularly costly, and to provide on-



23
the-job training for skilled workexs who are needed by the company although such
programs are costly and lengthy.   The situation is even more critical for
projects which are being created, which must make provisions for long
apprenticeship periods before they actually start up.
Therefore, according to the Moroccan Association of Textile Industries
(AMITY, the sector's needs for skilled manpower amount to nearly 10,000 per year.
In light of these needs and owing to the insufficient vocational
training infrastructure for the textile trades, which is for all intents and
purposes nonexistent if we exclude the Institut National du Cuir et de Textile
e    de F&z (1NG(), the -Inatitut deI 'labillement et du Textile des tocbes Noires in
Casablanca (IHT) which began operation in 1987/1988, the ITA Confection Derb
Ghallef in Casablanca (ITAC) which began operation in January 1989, the ANIT has
constantly brought to light the sector's need for skilled manpower.
The beneficial and constructive dialogue which this Association began
with the Ministry of Public Works, Vocational Training and Manager Training, and
the OFPPT has led to the implementation of a vocational training plan.
Under this plan the desired financial participation involves the
equipment of two institutes, namely:
- Institut de Confection Ben M'Sik III, Casablanca
New session begins in January 1990;
- Institut du Textile Ben M'Sik II Casablanca
New session begins in September 1990.
B. General goals
During their first year of operation, these establishments will make
it possible to train 295 technical specialists and 300 skilled workers.
This number will double beginning with the second year.
These establishments will also participate in advanced technical
training for workers and technical specialists employed in enterprises under the
OFPPT's continuing education program.
5.3       Industrial and tertiary sector.  On the average, the industrial and
tertiary sector accounts for approximately 70 percent of the training places
offered by the O.FPPT's training system and therefore largely meets this sector's
needs for skilled manpower.
At a time when most of this sector's quantitative goals have largely
been met, in light of the important share which the sector occupies in the
Office's training system, the latter is now scrutinizing the quality of the
profiles trained and the adequacy of the system in meeting the sector's real
needs.
This analysis enabled the OFPPT to reorient its development strategy
in this connection.



24
Accordingly, the office voluntarily established a policy which consists
of not engaging in further development of the industrial and tertiary industries,
but instead consolidating them and adapting them to reflect the job profiles
identified in this sector.                                -
In this connection, despite the addition of 1,050 training places
programned for the start of the 1989/90 and-l-990/1991 school years, the number
of trainee, remained substantially the same-during these two years.
TECHNICAL-ASS1STANC
The purpose of the requested tecinical assistance is to complete the
four studies below:
-  Management of didactic audiovisual resources and training in
educational technology;
- Implementation of the OFPPT vocational orientation system;
- Adaptation of the methods for developing profile directories and
training programs with the OFPPT;
- Restructuring and development of the OFPPT's management capacity.
C.      Extension of the groject closing date. After the Bank approved
the unspent loan balance program (see letter from the Bank of 4/24/90), the OFPPT
requested that the project closing date, initially set for December 1990, be
postponed until December 1992 (see Note OFP No. 3/90 of 8/14/90).



25
=   ~-_   _                                                       _     _-      - - - -
Pro-   Locali-    LeveL      Number of training  Start   No. of   No. of
vince  ties and              places              dat"    taute-   sections
estab-                                             ates
ishmants                                          trained  s   V   f
-       .     ..                 -      -      -       -       -     -    -
Sen.  BSe  aik   S-  V   T-  50   25=   32S    Feb 1990 291       2   2   6
Nslk   ITAC
Sidi              -   --            -       -       -       -_ -    .   -
Oth_ma  Bmenfk           T                160    Sep 1991  80             4
ITAT                                               _ _ _ _
Mohah- Kohanuedla    V   T          25    180    Oct 1989  354        1   4
. edi4. ITA      -          -       -       -       -       -   -    -   -
Hay   ROy        S       T   25           300    Oct 1989 49Z     2       5
Has-   Hassani
sani  ITA
Ain
Chok   _  _  _                                     _  _
El    El Jadida   S   V   T   50          120    Sep 1988  303    2       4
Jadida  11 ITA    -   -   -
'n-   MintrA             T                240    Oct 1989  183            4
tra   ITA
(Exten-
sion)
nintra    S   V       r5   125            Sep 1990  314    3   5
III  VTC                                  ____I_
Figuis  Figuig VTC  S   V    50    100           sep 1989  201    3   3
TOTAL               250   275   1325            2218     12  11  27
____-_________ .__ -3  1850                = 's--lo_ 50
The equipment purchases programmed under the unspent credit balance
program have made it possible to reinforce further the OFPPT's vocational
training scheme and system by creating 1,935 training places distributed as
follows:
- Specialization level (S)                      250
- Vocational level (V)                          275
- Technician level (T)                        1,325
This program also made it possible to implement contractualized
training with professionals in the garment and textile industry with the start-up
of two establishments specialized in garments and textiles (ITA Confection Ben
Msik and ITA Textile Ben Nsik).
The annex 'Training institutions built and/or equipped under the First
World Bank Project' provides a detailed report of the number of training places
created per year and per sector, the number of students enrolled, laureates
trained (initial program and unspent loan balance program combined).



26
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:
The technical assistance program adopted under the unspent balance was
reapplied to the second project in order to allow the first project to be closed.
ACCOUNTING ?OSITION:
The table below provides the status of commitments by category of
expeaditure incurred and the canceled credits proposed by the OFPPT.
ttorie                          O ,, .....     .      . \  , ibu,o _.aew..
Allocated amount   Distitvutton  New distribution   Ne  distribution
.     e        (lan a_t in  pi.ded in the    of funds, IRO  - -of- cotaitmnts by-
N USS)         tetter from the   telex of V16/92   category of funds
IJRO of 10/2/89 in             establifshed by
N USS                          the OFPPT $
Civil engineering  7.70        7.70            5.70            5.29
Architect      0.30            0.30            0.30            0.17
services                                                      .       .    .  I
Equipment,     11.20           14.20           16.13           167.9
furniture,
vehicles    ,_._.____.__
Consultant     0.40            1.90            0.90            0.25
Services
(OFPPT)      _ .                                                              l
Consultant     0.40            0.50            0.5U            0.17
Services (AFPfC)                                   _                  __l
Supplfes and   0.40            0.50            0.50            0.50
services (AFPfC)             ..   __.____.___._I
Comuission     0.07            0.07            0.07            0.07
Unatlocated    6.63            1.93          _  _ .             '_           . l
Canceled (unwsed)  - _         -.              3.00            4.06
Total          27.10           27.10           27.10           27.10
The resulting amount can be justified as follows:
- Reapplication to the second project of the technical assistance
program adopted, under the unspent loan balance of $US2 M.
- Savings were realized through advantageous prices offered by the
suppliers for the equipment component.
The attached financial statement also includes the detailed position
of all contracts undertaken for all components of the project.
l/The distribution of funds established by the Office according to commitments
by category of expenditure yields a sum of US$4.06 million.



27
6         RELATIONS WITH THE BANS
During the project execution period, ongoing contacts were maintained
between the OFPPT and the IBRD in order to monitor all project activities. These
relations were very beneficial, and made it possible to:
- Solve the problems encountered during project execution;
- Monitor the changes made in respect of the established program and
the repercussions of these changes on future phases;
* Ensure that the schedule is observed and make the necessary -
adjustnents;
- Ensure that procedures, financial commitments, and the related
budget expenditure are followed;
- Assess the progress made by the project according to the schedule
adopted for that purpose;
- Compare all aspects of project activities, with the cooperation of
the Ministry oF Finance (national borrower) and the Administration of
Vocational Training and Manager Training (AFPFC).
A few recommendations can be made and should be taken into account in
the preparation of the third vocational training project.
The most significant recommendations can be summarized as follows:
- The executing agency should be provided with the project evaluation
report in French;
- The executing agency should be provided with all technical
specifications necessary to implement the project;
- The auditor shiould provide the executing agency with the draft
account audit report one month before its finalization to allow the
executing agency to make its comments, if any;
- The project should be audited according to the procedures currently
used by private auditing firms.



28
PART III.  STA-TSTICAL IIFORMATION
Table 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
ITEM            DATE PLANNED        DATE REVISED         DATE ACTUAL
Identification       May 1983                                May 1983
Preparation          October 1983                            October 1983
Appraisal Mission   March 1984                               March 1984
Loan Negotiation                                             Sept. 1984
Board Approval       September 1985                          Nov. 27, 1984
Loan Signature                                               April 16, 1985
Loan Effectiveness   February 1985                           Sept. 5, 1985
Loan Closing         Dec. 31, 1990        Dec. 31, 1991      June 30, 1992
Loan Completion      June 30, 1991        Oct. 31, 1992      Nov. 4, 1992
Table' 3: CUKULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US $ Million Equivalent)
CY          1985    1986    1987    188e   1989    19S0    l991   1992'
Appraisal Estimate  2.3     7.6    15.3    22. 7    25.1    27.1
Actual              5.3    10.2    12.4    13.2    13.7    16.3    20.5    23.0
AXtual as t of Est.  2301    134s    81%     58o     551 c01
At The last disbursement was Inde on 11/04/1892 before closirng Gf the loan account



29
MOROCCO: VOCATnONAL TRAINING I PROJECT
TIME UINE OF DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
28:
22
20
22 -                                                                       - -A--'/..-
16
14
72
10
6
4
2
I           a    /     . 
1986     1986     1987     1988     1989     1990     1991     1992
0  Appriesad Estimate  +  Actual



30
Table 4: PIANNED AND ACTUAL COMPLETION DATES OF COMPONENTS
Plemud               Aatual
Cmupletion           Completion       Months of Dalay
Phase 1 (8 centers)                                      03/88               09/86                   -17
Phase 2 (5 canetaa)                                      06/89         -     1216                    ^at
Pbhas  2 (5 center)                                      06/89               11/88                    -7
Pase 2 (4 enters)                                        068/9               01/O 0                    7
PUUI2TRl AUID IQUIP,             -88  Sev,:al bids between.86 and a9.
MOBILE  R&IUN  UNITS                                        03/87       11/85& 02/88            -18 and -13
TMICALi ABSXSTUCN:
1. Apreutieesbip/Certification                            09/85               03/87                    18
2. Small Buainess Management                              03/8S               02/88                    23
3. Vocational Training Coordination                       09/85               03/88                    30
4. Financing Vocational Training                          09/85               11/86                    13
S. Pro-inwestment Studies                                 06/87     Not implemented
S. Organizat. & Manae8ment of ITC                         09/85               05/86                     a
7. Audio Visual Methods                                   Q6/86               06/88                    24
S. Proream in Ptoject Preparation                         06/87               11/87                     S



31
Table 5a: PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY
(US $ MILLION EQUIVALENT)
Avmaisal Estimatem                                ALtua
Cat.oxy         Lacal      Foarign        Totel        Local       Foreign        Total
Construetion                      8.91         7.34         16.31        16.03         0.00         16.03
Arhtdtuml .xvicasa                1.35         0.28          2.63         1.39         0.00          1.39
--  htur    - - -   -    -  ~ 0.34       ~ ~   0.64         0.98          3.36         0.70         4.08
iquialmmmt                        1.18        10.58       - 11.76         8.30        10.81         19.11
Telbutcal Assistance              0.42         1.02          1.44         0.26         0.72         0.98
Total Bea* Coast                 12,26        19.86         32.12         -
Ebysical Ccating.noies            1.23         1.99          3.22         -            -             -
P?ioe Continpiuies                3.46         5.23         8.69
- Fnt ood f-                       -0                        0.06                      0.06         0.06
TOTAL  ROJERT COST               16.95        27.14         44.09        29.34        12.23         41.63
Table 5b: PROJECT FINANCING
(US $ Million Equivalent)
Source of Funds                             Planned              X                Final           X
IR Loan                                        27.14            61.6X             23.03          S5.3S
Co-fiUanOinS Institutions                       0.17             0.4Z               0.00          0.0O
Other Exteznal Sources                          0.00             0.01               0.84          2.02
Domestic                                       16.77             38.02             17.75         42.72
TOTAL                                          44.09            100.02            41.63         100.02
IV Cooperation with the EEC



32
TABLE Sc: PROJECT COSTS BY ITEM
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Anuraisal Estiwates                            ActuaL
Local      Forei4n        Total        Local      Foreign        Total
Voeational Trainin8 Centers             11.68        17.4i        29.15        28.98         9.87        38.85
Instructor Tr*1nxst Center.              0.02         0.07        -0409         0.06         0.11         0.17
Mbile ?Tzailnin  Units                   0.14         1.30         1.44         0.04         1.64         1.68
Teebnieald Assistance                    0.42         1.02         1.44         0.25         0.61         0.87
TotaL Bese Cost  ..          -          12.26        19.85. -a . 322 l-
Physical Contingencies                   1.23         1.99         3.22                       -
Priee Contingencies                      3.46         5.23         8.69          -            -             -
Front .4nd fee                            -           0.06         0.06         -            0.06         0.06
TOTAL PROJECT COST                      16.95        27.14        44.09        29.34        12.30        42.63
Table 6: PROJECT RESULTS
(US $ Million Equivalent)
ESTIMATED AT
3NDICATORS                                  APPRAISAL                                FULL DEVELOPMENT
vOCATIONAL TRAINING CENTERS
Number of New Training                                22                                            30
Centers Created
Naw Enrollment                                      4775                                          6630
Capacity Created
Additional Number                                   2200                                          3000
of Graduates per year
Proportion of Female Students                         *                                            27X
INSTRUCTIONAL TRAINING CENTER
Number EsrolLed
Regular Program                                       60                                              75
Up-grading Program                                    *                                             898
MOBILE TRAINING UNITS
Utilization Rates                                     *                                       10 to 60X
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Number of Studies Completed                            7                                              6
* not specified



33
Table 7: STUDIES
AT APB-IS.
1. ApprenticeshipfCertification    To assist the OFIPT in,        completed    The study lead to the
formulating a strategy for                  preparation of a draft
the development of                          law which has not yet
apprenticeship training.                      w been  approved.      - 
2. SmsLl Business Msnagement       To assist the OFPPT in         completed    Training program
developing a program for                    elaborated.    seninars
small business maragement                   were organized while
training,                                   consultant was in the
field. The training
seminars have been
discontinued but the
lidactic material serves
as basis for the regular
-_________________________                   training   of  technicians.
3 . Vo.ia Training
3. Vocational Trainin              To assist in the               completed    The study recommeanded a
Coordination                    formulation of a strategy                   restructuring of the
for coordinating the                        system that is still
training efforts among the                  under consideration.
various operators.
4. Financing Vocational            To identify policy actions    completed    10 of 20 recommendations
Tral-ini                        to ensure the adequate                      were implemented.
!!_________    ________________   financing of VT.
i. Pre-investment Studies          To conduct pre-investment         not
studies for future             completed
voeational training
project components.               __l
. Organization end Management    To develop an effective          completed    Served as basis for the
of Instructor Center            organization and                            restructuring of the
management struoture for                    training and the creation
the new center,                             of the regional centers.
7. Audio-Visual Methods            To introduce Audio-visual      completed    Skills and techniques
methods in the training                     were transferred to a
program of the                              small team capable of
instructors                                 using the methods for the
development of didactic
materials.
8. Program in Project              Development of a program       completed    More than 500 officials
Preparation                     for training of                             have been trained so far.
middle-level officials                      The program has become
from all ministries in                      permanent.
project identification,
preparation and appraisal.



34
Table 8: STATUS OF COVENANTS
. .  sx -  ms oms ,
Pro.trt Asreemt   Us BorrWer shall, an or befor- Dec   br 31, 1985,    The Novinber 1087 and April 1°08 miaiona
S.03(a4   and (b)   furnish to the 8ank the cenclusions and                  discussed with Moroccea official the conclusions
recommendations of the studies referred to in Part D   and recommendations of the studies. But the
- i) and (ii) (coordinetion  nd finauncing of           ofAicial conolusions and recommendations are not
vocationa  training).                                   yet iued by the Govearnent. Reak's caments 0n
the preliminary results hav  ben gent to the
ovruent Ot Nay 21. 1987,
Project Agreement   The Borrower sh11. oan or before Decaber S1t  1985.    The study was completed in thrch  1987. Th- Bank
2.03 Ca)            fumish to the -Bank the conelusions and                  teceived conclusions and xecorendties August 3,
recommendations ot the studies referred'to in Part      1987. the ltevzboer. 187 miesion diccuswd  ithi-
D(iii) (apprentiscehip training ead trade               Moroccan officials a fl  the conclusions sad
certification)                                          rec_ndaetien  of the study. Bank c        tomets war.
sent to the Govenment oa December 14. 1987.
Project Ag"eemt   The Offec shall. mo or beore July 1. 1988. furnish   The LO mission wa completed by June  1088.
2.03 (b)            to the Bank the conclusions and recamaedatios of
the study reterred to in Part Miv) (training
progrms for suall busines malement).
fro4eot Agreement   The Office ahal. oan or before December 31, 1985,
*   2.03 (c)      -   furish to the Bank the proposed structure for the
orSar4zation and management of the instructor
training center referred to in P4rt B Cii.
Ptoject Agreement   The Office shall, oan or before December 31, 1986.
2.03 (d)  -          xchange views with the bank an the pe¢forzance end
the audio-visual trainung methods to be introduced
In the program of the Instrutor Training Center
referred to in Pert B Cii).
Project Agreement   The Office shall, within two years after the             The evaluation was completed and sent to the Beak
2.03 Ce)            conencement of the two regionally-based mobile           on govember 19, 1987.
units, carry out en evaluation of the performane of
the said cobile training units referred to in Part
C.
Project Agreement   The Borrower shall, on or before July 1. 1988,           Kid term review of this progam has been completed
3.03 td)            echanse views with the Bank an the operations cnd        Narcb 28, 1987. Bnk sent its ceoments to the
results of the program referred to in Part E            Government May 21, 1987.
(project identitication, preparation and appraisal).



35
TABLE 9: BANW MISSIONS
A. ?BMG SOA0 APPROVAL
NO. OF FIEWD          SPECAL lZAT         |
MISS1ON             mNtUYEAm       NO. Of P0420NS   STUA  DAYS            REPRESUUD5/
Eaconnai.asanoe           12/92            N/A               N/A                  N/A
Idntififc.atin            5/83             N/A               NIA                      = -/A
_paratio_                 10/83             /A  -                                 E UC.   C A'RC
Appraisal                 3/84 _4                                        ..        DC,DCF,ECN, ARC
B. SUPERV SXoNb/
.   .  .   .   .        -.  l- ,NO.:OF
SUPEVISIOW      HOW/YEAR        NO. OF    STAfF-0AYS        SPECIALIZASON       OVERALL       TYPES OF
|                               cSSIOl ___   SONS  IR FJLS/  REDESETED5/        STATUS       PR08LFM
_   .        11/88           4           0.8                ECN              1              -
a             4/87            3            7              EDC,R               1              - I
3             211/87          1            5                 TRO              I-
4             4/88            1            4                 TRO              1              _
5             10/88           1            3                 TRO              2       Studies
r             10/8e           2           10              T1OE.3c            1 
7             03/00           1            5                 EN               1 I
8             9/00            2           10              ECN, FRA            2       P o= Sesnt
9             3/91            1            5                 FM            _          progremst
10             0/01           1           2.5                FMA               2       Procurement
11             3/02           1            S                 FNA               2       Procureament
Progress
12            10/92           2            1*             EgU, NAM             2       Procurement
Progress
/ MD.: Training SpeciaUst; EC: Education Economist; FNA: Financial Analyst; EDC: Educator
/ Data estimated from supervision reports.
-S/ Data not retrievable fron MIS, has been estimated froe supervision reports, and time equally allocated between all ptojects
supervised during said mission.



- 36 -
TABLE l0. STAFF INPUTS
(Staff Weeks)
Fiscal Year    Preapprasal  Appraisal  Negotiagton   Supervision    Other   Total
1984           2.9         2&2.                                  43      M3.5
1985                        6.3          9.5         3.2         86      27.6
1986                                                14.2         .6      14.8
1987                                                10.8                 10.8
1988                                                 3.9                  3.9
1989                                                 3.2                  3.2
1990                                                 7.0                  7.0
1991                                                 8.1                  8.1
1992                                                 4.3                  4.3
1993                                                10.0                 10.0
Totals          2.9         34.5          9.5        64.8        13.5    1252



MAP SECTION



IBRD18273R
AAG 
SVO-ATiA. TRAINING PROECT                                                                                                                                                           iA
tracks ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CASA8LAN                                                                 tt34                                                         s-.. 
'4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;
''Nfl.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
71 ~~~~~~r-.-- sue us ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                         4' A'      4ttj-tttit> '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F
t~~~~tWien qheve l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OO mean~ ~~~~~~
3 ~    ~     ,tna   o11tnwclcpns'    ~~ 
~~~~~~~~0 ~ ~       4  41) L
X,                                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SPAIN  Ad.o'o
~~~~~  A'ji*J   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                    *Rohot~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
9;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,P~b
-tot~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8&"af   CAAR  5,1kN0
4#4,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.~~~~~~~~~~~~j~~~~m=1
Y.i 'w"', beer                        Aeadbv (ofW tmapV
-v                                                                                         11w AWlS Oslo's Staff sx'oists*   tOmes)~~~~~~~~~~~~ALERI
-   't~~~~~~,n)"'44cr  TANTAP1~~~~~~~~~~~'~~__  to.~~~~~r'A'  -     ~      ~       ~      ~      ~       Ei~~~~SCM                 -          Amend  d.~ .1,   N
NOVEMBER 1984



