RESTRICTED
FILE     COPY              Report No. P-544
This report wns prepared for use, within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR A
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 27, 1967



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPM1ET
REPORT AND RECOPNMDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR FOR A LIVESTOCK
DEVELOPrMEMT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$4.o million to
the Republic of Ecuador.
PART I - IISTOIRICAL
2.        In August 1965, the Government of Ecuador requested assistance
of the Bank in preparing a livestock project for a possible Bank financing.
The Bank subsequently sent missions to Ecuador during 1965-66 to help the
Government prepare such a project, which was completed and submitted to
the Bank in June 1966 with a request for Bank financing. A Bank mission
appraised the project in September 1966 and recommended that the Bank make
a loan of us$4.o million.
3.        Negotiations for the proposed loan began in Washington on iMarch
10, 1967. The Government of Ecuador was represented by Mr. Gustavo Larrea,
Ecuadorian Ambassador to the United States; Mr. Raul Paez, Technical Direc-
tor of the National Planning Board; and Dr. G. Muirragui, Legal Adviser
to the National Planning Board.  The Central Bank was represented by Mr.
R. Campos, Deputy Director of the Research Department of the Central Bank.
4.        The following is a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits
to Ecuador as at March 31, 1967:
Loan/                                            Amount (USs Million)
Credit No. Year       Borrower         Purpose     Bank  IDA  Undisbursed
94 EC     1954  Comite Ejecutivo de      Roads     7.5   -       -
Vialidad del Guayas
137 EC     1956 Empresa Electrica Quito Power       5.0   -      -
177 EC     1957  Empresa Electrica Quito Power      5.0   -      -
176 EC     1957 Republic of Ecuador       Roads    14.5   -      -
212 EC     1958 Port Authority of
Guayaquil               Port     13.0    -      -



- 2-
379 EC     1964 Republic of Ecuador )               9.0    -    4.5
)    Roads
51 EC     1964 Republic of Ecuador )                -    8.0   7.9
Total (less cancellations)                         54.0   8.0
of which has been repaid                          15.9
Total now outstanding                            38.1
Amount sold:                               1.4
of which has been repaid                 1.0      0.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA                    37.7  8.0
Total undisbursed                                 4.5    7.9
5.        The Consortium Highway Project (Loan 379/Credit 51) is a two-
stage project, which is financed jointly by the Bank/IDA, AID and IDB
under the chairmanship of the Bank. Disbursement has been delayed owing
to a time lag in the Loan/Credit becoming effective, adverse weather
experienced during 1965-1966, lack of local contractors qualified to
undertake civil works and lack of interest among qualified foreign contrac-
tors in submitting bids for civil works. Disbursement of the IDA Credit
commenced only recently as this Credit is confined to financing Stage II
of the Project.  While the Project is progressing reasonably well and
there are no major problems at present, it is being kept under close
review.
6.        IFC has one investment, made in 1965, of approximately 1;2 million
equivalent in equity and debt of La Internacional, a major Ecuadorian tex-
tile firm.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
7.        Borrower:                Republic of Ecuador.
Amount:                   The equivalent in various currencies
of US$4.0 million.
Purpose:                  To assist in financing the first
stage of a livestock development
program which aims initially at the
improvement of the beef cattle in-
dustry.
Amortization:             18 years including a grace period of
6 years; principal repayments semi-



-3-
annually from April 15, 1973 through
April 15, 1985.
Interest Rate:            6 percent per annum.
Commitment Charge:        3/8 of one percent per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.        An appraisal report entitled "Livestock Development Project"
(TO-582a) is attached.
9.        Ecuador is predominantly an agricultural country and approxi-
mately 65 percent of the present population of 5.2 million is rural.  Agri-
culture, including forestry and fishing, now contributes 34 percenat of the
Gross Domestic Product and livestock accounts for about one-fourth of total
agricultural production.
10.       Principal commercial crcps of Ecuador are bananas, coffee, and
cocoa. They account for about 80 percent of total exports. In the face
of unstable world markets for these commodities, there is a vital need for
diversification in agriculture. One way of diversifying is to expand pro-
duction of beef, demand for which at home and for export is increasing.
11.       The Coastal Area in which the proposed project will be carried
out represents about one-fourth of the land area of Ecuador. It has
about 3.3 million hectares suitable for agriculture, 65 percent of which
are in production, with about one million hectares in improved and na-
tural pastures.  At least 500,000 hectares of the unused land could be
utilized for improved pastures in a beef cattle development program.
Beef production is the major animal industry in this area and lends itself
to further expansion.
12.       The project is directed mainly at on-farm improvements such as
land clearance, pasture renovation, fencing, water supplies, yards and
dips, machinery and improved breeding stock. These improvements are ex-
pected to result in an increase in total cattle numbers and herd producti-
vity. It is expected that about 240 beef cattle farms would participate
in the project. Long-term credit to farmers of eight to twelve years is
envisaged.
13.       The coordination and supervision of the project would be carried
out by a Project Commission composed of representatives from the National
Planning Board, the Central Bank, the Ministry of Agriculture, participa-
ting banks, and the Coastal Cattlements association. A Project Director
satisfactory to the Banlc, who would be appointed by and responsible to the
Project Commission, would have technical responsibility for implementation



of the project. Technical assistance to farmers would be provided by
qualified livestock technicians under the supervision of the Project
Director. This group would also be responsible for assisting farmels to
prepare farm development plans, for recommending these to the participating
banks as basis for lending, and for supervising the execution of the work
for which loans are made.
14.       Goods required for the project would be obtained through existing
commercial channels. There are several retail sources for these goods,
both imported and local, and sufficient competition is assured in securing
supplies. Since individual items would not be of substantial value, inter-
national competitive bidding would not be appropriate. All purchases of
livestock required for the project would be subject to the approval of the
Project Director with respect to the quality and suitability of such stock.
15.       The foreign exchange component of the project represents 22 per-
cent of the estimated project cost of $6.8 million. To carry out farm de-
velopment, participating banks would make loans to farmers up to 80 percent
of the cost of farm improvements: some "J0 percent would be provided by
participating banks out of the proposed Bank loan and some 20 percent out
of their own resources. In addition, participating banks would make short-
terrm loans to farmers for working capital. About $150,000 of the Bank loan
would be used for various technical services including seed multiplication
and related research.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUTMENTS AND AUTIXRITY
16.       The Draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Ecuador, Banco
Central of Ecuador and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Ececutive Directors separately.
17.       The Draft Loan Agreement follows the usual pattern of loan agree-
ments for livestock development projects. However, instead of having a se-
parate Project Agreement between Banco Central and the Bank, Banco Central
is to be a party to the Loan Agreement itself.  Attention is drawn to the
following provisions:
(a)  Ecuador will enter into arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank with Banco Central for the management, adrministration
and disbursement, by Banco Central, of the proceeds of the
loan (Section 5.01(b) ).
(b)  Ecuador and Banco Central will enter into Subsidiary Loan
Agreements with the participating banks, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, providing for the
reimbursement to such banks of a percentage of loans dis-



- 5 -
bursed to cattle farmers under the Lending Program, and
prescribing the responsibilities of the participating
banks under the project (Section 1.02(a) and Section 5.02).
(c) Payments by farmers in respect of moneys derived from the
Bank loan not currently required for servicing of the Bank
loan would be used by participating banks for livestock
development (Section 5.12(i) ).
PART V - THE ECONOIY
18.       A review of the recent economic developments and data is con-
tained in the attached economic memorandum. As stated in paragraph 11 of
that memorandum, Ecuador is creditwJorthy for the proposed livestock loan.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE IITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMIaT
19.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOISENDATION
20.       I recommend that the E~cecutive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to the Republic of Ecuador in
an amount equivalent to US$4,000,000.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to the Republic of Ecuador in
an amount in various currencies equivalent to four million United States
dollars (uS$4,OOO,ooo), to mature on and prior to April 15, 1985, to bear
interest at the rate of six percent (&%) per annum, and to be upon such
other terms and conditions as shall be substantially in accordance with
the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Loan Agreement (Live-
stock Development Project) between the Republic of Ecuador, Banco Central
of Ecuador and the Bank, which has been presented to this meeting.
Attachments                                 George D. Woods
President
Washington, D. C.                          by J. Burke Knapp
April 27, 1967



