RESTRICTED
Report No. TO-58Za
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECUADOR
RETURnN Is 
April 24, 1967
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
U. S. $1          = 18.00 Sucres
1 Sucre           = U. S. $0. 06
1, 000, 000 Sucres .= U.S. $55,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System



Soime of the mat,erials in this report have been arljusted to serve
the purposes of the instructional needs of the Economic Development Insti-
tute and thus differ from the contents of the original report as distributed
on April 2LI, 1967.
July 1, 196S'






E C U A D O R
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUIOIRY                              ..                                i-ii
I.  INTRODUCTION. . . . .     . . . .  . . . . . . . . .  .  .     1
II.  BACKGROUND  . . . . . . . . . .    . . . . . . . . .  . . .    1
III.  THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. ..     .      a
A.  General Description . . . . . . . . . . . . a.       .     a
B.  Detailed Features . . a . . a . . .  . . . .  . . ..  .    5
C. Cost Estimates. . . . . .   . .   .  . .  . .  . . . .      6
D.  Proposed Financing.   .  . .      . . . . . . .  .  .      7
E. Disbursements . . . .   .           . . .  . .. .  .. .     8
F.  Operating Results *. . .         *a. . . . .. ..  . .
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT . . .............                  9
V.  BNIEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION.       .    .........:. -2
VI.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECONMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . .     . .     13
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
to Ecuador in September 1966, composed of Messrs. W. Schaefer-
Kehnert, F. Knobel, and E. Lamers, fir. F. Thomas (FAO), and
Mr. H. Hughes (Consultant).



-2-
ANNEXES
1. The Banking System
2. Total Investment Program
3. Administration Budget
4. Development of a Typical Farm
5. Projected Cash Flow of Central Bank
6. Projected Cash Flow of Participating Banks
7. Organization Chart
8. Duties, Responsibilities and Authorities of the Project
Director
9. Flow of Incremental Costs and Benefits
liAP



E C U A D O R
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY
(i)       The Government of Ecuador has requested a Bank loan to help
finance the first stage of its livestock development program which aims
initially at the improvement of its beef cattle industry. The country
has great potential both for increased productivity and for the expansion
of the total area devoted to beef cattle production. There is also a
pressing need to increase beef production to cover growing domestic and
export demands.
(ii)      Because there is little experience in Ecuador of financing long-
term cattle development, a phased approach would be used at this stage,
confining the Project to specific areas. These areas have been selected
for the highest land potential, adequate infrastructure, proximity to
markets, and also have been limited to ensure adequate technical supervision.
(iii)     The Project is directed mainly at on-farm improvements such as
land clearance, pasture renovation, fencing, water supplies, yards and
dips, machinery and improved breeding stock. These improvements would
result in an increase in total cattle numbers and herd productivity,
tlhus leading to greater output.
(iv)      It is expected that about 240 beef cattle farms would
participate in the Project. Long-term developmental credit to farmers
of 8 to 12 years is envisaged. Investment on each ranch would be spread
over three years.
(v)       The coordination and supervision of the Project would be
carried out by a7Project Commission composed of representatives from the
National Planning Board, the Ministry of Agriculture, Central Bank,
participating banks and the Coastal Cattlemen's Association. A Project
Director, satisfactory to the Bank, who would be appointed by and
responsible to the Project Commission, would have the technical
responsibility for implementation of the Project. Technical assistance
to farmers would be provided by qualified livestock technicians under
the supervision of the Project'Director. This group would also be
responsible for assisting farmers to prepare development plans, for
recommending these to the banks for lending and for supervising the
execution of farm-development plans for which loans are made. The
Participating Banks would process these loans according to their normal
procedures.



- ii -
(vi)      The Project is estimated to cost a total of about US$6.8
million of which US$6.4 million or 94 per cent would be for farm
development, and the balance of US$0.4 million or 6 per cent for
technical services including seed multiplication. The foreign exchange
component amounts to US$1.5 million or 22 per cent of total project
cost. The Bank loan would cover 59 per cent of the total project cost.
The balance would be provided by participating banks (about 22 per cent)
and farmer loan recipients (about 19 per cent).
(vii)     The Project is technically sound and economically justifiable.
The administrative arrangements would be satisfactory. Expected benefits
to the participating farmers and to the national economy are substantial
in the long-term and the Project would be the first step in a greater
overall program. The Project is suitable for a Bank loan of Us$4.o
million, repayable over an 18-year term, including a 6 year grace period.
The borrower would be the Government of Ecuador and the loan would be
channeled through the Central Bank to the National Development Bank (NDB)
and other participating banks.



E C U A D O R
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Government of Ecuador has requested a Bank loan to help
finance the first stage of its livestock development program which aims
initially at the improvement of the beef cattle industry. Several Bank
missions visited Ecuador between October 1965 and June 1966 to assist
the National Planning Board in preparing a development project. This
appraisal report is based on the findings of a mission which visited
Ecuador in September/Octqber 1966 composed of Messrs. W. Schaefer-Kehnert,
F. Knobel and E. Lamers (of the Bank), Mr. F. Thomas (of FAO), and Mr. M.
Hughes (Consultant to the Bank).
II. BACKGROUND
2.        Ecuador is one of the smallest countries in South America.  It
is also one of the poorest in terms of income per capita, but it possesses
rich natural resources for agricultural production and is wqll favored in
terms of soil and rainfall. Ecuador is predominantly an agricultural
country and approximately 65 percent of the present population of 5.2
million is rural.  Agriculture, including forestry and fishing, now
contributes 34 percent of the Gross Domestic Product and livestock
accounts for about one-fourth of total agricultural production.
3.        There are three geographic divisions in the country:  the
Pacific Coastal Plain (Costa), the Central Mountains with associated
elevated valleys (Sierra), and the lower-lying area east of the Andes
(Oriente). (See Map).
4.       ?he Coastal Area in which the proposed project is located
represents about one-fourth of the total land area of Ecuador. It has
about 3.3 million ha suitable for agricultural purposes, 65 percent
of which are in production, with about one million ha in improved and
natural past¶ures.  At least 500,000 ha of the unused porticn could be
utilized for improved pastures in a beef cattle development program.
Beef production is the major animal industry in this area and lends
itself to further expansion because of good infrastructure and proximity
to markets. Roads in the area have been improved by a highway
project partially financed by the Bank/IDA (Loan 379EC/Credit 51EC).



- 2 -
5.        The climate of the Coastal Area is tropical.  Rainfall is highly
variable as indicated by areas of semidesert in contrast to rain fo±'ests.
Soils in the Western part are residual and i.n the Eastern part alluvial.
Due to this diversity in rainfall and soils, a wide range of forage and
cash crops can be produced.
6.        Principal commercial crops, primarily grown in the Coastal Area,
ar- ;<nanas, coffee and cacao. They account for about 8o percent of total
eypuits. In the face of unstable world markets for these commodities, and
thie ravages of Panama disease in banana production, there is a vital need
for diversification in agricultural production. The potential exists to
diversify farm production through an expansion of the beef cattle industry.
There is also a pressing need for an increase in beef production to meet
growing domestic and export demand.
The Beef Cattle Sector
7.        Accurate data on livestock numbers are not available. An
estimated cattle population of 1.9 million head is about equally dis-
tributed between the tropical Costa and Sierra temperate zones with only
about 100,000 head in the tropical Oriente zone. Cattle numbers increased
during the period 1953-63 at about the same rate as the human population,
i.e.,3.5 percent per annum. The ratio of head of cattle per person is very
low being only 0.4 as compared with 1.0 to 2.8 cattle per person in other
South Ar.erican courtrLes. This low ratio, coupled with a low productivity
per animal, emphasizes the need for increasing beef production by
expanding both cattle numbers and pasturage and by increasing individlual
animal production efficiency.
S.        Modern beef production is still in its infancy in Ecuador. The
tropical Coastal Area is emerging, however, as the principal area of
specialized production. Native cattle breeds (Criollo) comprise 65 per-
cent of the animal pcpulation. Progressive ranchers follow a program of
croosing Criollo femaLes with Zebu bulls. Santa Gertrudis bulls have
also been used, but less extensively. The basic problem facing the
expansion of the beef industry is a shortage of cattle of all classes,
especially females for breeding purposes. Some ranches are primarily
engaged in breeding operations, but most ranches are being developed as
integrated breeding, growing and fattening enterprises. Few, if any,
producers specialize in cattle fattening due mainly to the limited
availability of feeder steers which reflects the main problem of low
turnover on the extensively run breeding farms.
9.        Statistics on the distribution of cattle according to ranch size
are inavailable. Ranch sizes in the better developed coastal areas range
from 500 to 1,500 ha devoted to cattle production. These ranches
have an average herd 'iize of about 500 head.



10.       The present coastal pasture lands, under current management
programs, probably will not support more than the estimated cattle popu-
lation of 800,000 head.  It is estimated, however, that the potential
exists to increase this number by about one million head. The livestock
development program included in the National Development Plan proposes
to provide eventually the grazing area required for this number of cattle
by converting the native pasture area (about 300,000 ha) to improved
pastures, by increasing carrying capacity of the already established
improved pastures (about 700,000 ha) and by establishing about 500,000
ha of new pastures on unused lands, and on lands presently being used
for unprofitable crop production.
11.       Productive and reproductive efficiency of the present stock is
quite low.  Weaning weights between 7 to 9 months of age are usually
less than 140 kg. Average daily gain of growing-fattening steers is low.
Most animals are marketed at 3 to 4 years of age weighing about 400 kg.
Average rate of calves born per 100 cows in the Coastal Area is only about
60 per cent and calf mortality is high. This results in an effective
calving rate (calves weaned per 100 cows) of ohly about 45 per cent.
Some of the better managed ranches obtain weaning weights of 220 kg at
8 to 9 months of age, and effective calving rates close to 80 per cent.
This indicates that the potential does exist for increasing production
efficiency.
12.       Ecuador consumes most of the beef it produces.  The estimated
output rate (animals sold off the farm per 100 head of stock) is 15.0
per cent. Nearly 42,000 tons of dressed beef were produced in 1963,
w.hich allowed a per capita consumption of only 9 kg of beef. 1/ In the
National Development Plan the per capita beef consumption is expected to
increase by 23 per cent during the 10-year period, 1964-73.
13.       Exports of cattle to Peru have been legalized since 1963, but
are subject to licensing and taxes. About 20,000 animals per year are
exported legally, but smuggling increases total exports to an estimated
50,000 head per year.' Cattle imports from Colombia, estimated at 12,000
head per year, are sometimes sold directly to Peruvian traders.   With
higher production and organized markets, cattle exports to Peru could be
increased considerably.                       -
14.       Most of the commercial farmers are aware of the opportunities
for beef cattle development. Some of the larger farmers are importing
purebred Zebu and other breeding stock to upgrade their herds and to
sell breeding an:imals to other farmers. Limited amounts of international
credit from the Export-Import Bank (EX-IMBK) and the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) have been available for this purpose during
recent years. However, long-term credit required for intensifying
pasture production is not available. There is a strong demand for this
kind of credit.
1/ Per capita beef consumption in South America ranges from 6 kg (Bolivia)
to 73 kg (Argentina).



Government Policies
15.       The Government realizes the inportance of the livestock sector
for the development of the country. The National Development Plan aims
at an increase in cattle population from 1.9 million to 2.7 million head
over the period 1964-73. This would be achieved by an annual g&owth
rate of 3.6 per cent over the 5-year period 1964-68 and of 3.9 per cent
over the ensuing 5-year period, 1969-73. Beef production is expected
to increase from nearly 42,000 metric tons carcass weight in 1963 to
about 54,000 tons in 1968 and to about 77,000 tons in 1973.
16.       Agriculture and livestock will account for 6.9 per cent of all
investments made in the public sector over the 10-year period, 1964-73 of
the National Development Plan. Under the Plan, it is expected that of
the investments in the private sector 23 per cent will be allocated to
agric.ulture and livestock.
17.       In connection with its livestock development program, the
Government plans an improvement of the animal health services, the
installation of two centers for artificial insemination (Coastal Area),
the establishment of two training and demonstration centers (Costa and
Sierra) and a strengthening of agricultural extension services. Animal
health services are adequate in the Project Area and extension services
will be established as part of the Project.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
18.       The Project is the first stage of a long-term livestock develop-
ment program which forms part of the National Development Plan. It
proposes on-farm investments totaling about 115 million sucres (US$6.4
million) in the beef cattle industry and supporting services totaling
about 7 million sucres (US$0.4 million). Because there is little
experience in Ecuador of financing this type of development, a phased
approach would be used at this stage, confining the project to specific
areas (Para. 22). These areas have been selected principally for their
accessibility to developing markets, land potential, and the necessity
for adequate technical appraisal and supervision.
19.       The Project is directed mainly at improvement of existing farms
to raise both pasture land and herd productivity. In addition, it is
planned to finance the establishment of improved pastures on new land on
most participating farms. This new land is either in a natural forest
state or in bananas abandoned because of Panama disease. Local procure-
ment and import of male and female breeding cattle would also be
financed under the project. Long-term development credit for 8 to 12
years would be made available to participating farmers. On-farm invest-
.ments would be spread over three years.



20.       Loans to farmers would be made through the National Development
Bank (NDB) and through private banks (Annex 1). In each case farm develop-
ment plans would be prepared by qualified livestock technicians hekded by
a foreign Project Director. He would be responsible to a Project
Commissionconposed of one representative each from the Ministry of
Agriculture, the National Planning Board, the Central Bank the National
Development Bank, participating private banks and the Coastal Cattlemen's
Association.
B. Detailed Features
21.       The loan request stabmitted by the Gover-tment propdsed a three
year credit program for the development of 340 farms. In view of several
uncertainties, primarily with respect to the supply of breeding stock and
the number of fariers who would qualify for participation, the appraisal
mission discussed and agreed with the Government to reduce the program to
a period of two years and investments on 240 farms. This would not reduce
the number of loan commitments per year. The Government would undertake
a detailed study of the livestock industry which could serve as the basis
for the preparation of a possible second stage livestock development
project.
22.       Investments in the beef cattle sector would be confined in the
first instance to the Guayas Area consisting of parts of the Provinces
of Guayas, Manabi, Los Rios and El Oro (see map).  In the light of long-
term developmental objectives, however, as the Project progresses a
limited number of pilot farms might be financed in the Santo Domingo and
Esmeraldas Areas, provided the Project Director ascertains that th3y can
be adequately supervised and serviced. It is envisaged that about 200
farms would be developed in the Guayas Area and 40 farms in the Santo
Domingo andEsmeraldas Areas.
23.       Although relatively large ranches are of economic advantage
for commercial beef production, no limits in farm size would be set for
an individual loan provided that the farm development plan was technically
sound and economic-ally justifiable. However, loans to individual
borrowers exceeding US$100,000 equivalent would require prior approval
by the Bank. It is expected that farms with at least 200 breeding cows
and a land area of approximately 650 ha would be most likely to participate
in the Project.
24.       Provision is made in the investment program for financing land
clearance and pasture establishment; for renovation of existing pastures
by cleaning; for fencing, watering, stock handling and animal health
control facilities; for agricultural machinery; for imported purebred
bulls and females; and for locally procured breeding stock from improved
studs.
25.       Finance would also be made available to the Pichilingue Experi-
ment Station for the purchase of mother seed, fertilizer and machinery for



-6-
the multiplication and sale of certified tropical grass and legume seed
within the Project areas. In addition, periodic visits would be made
by an expatriate expert in tropical grass and legume seed production.
The provision of pasture seeds would make a most important contribution
to livestock development in Ecuador.
26.       On-farm investments and the application of improved management
practices aim at increased beef output of approximately 12 per cent per
year over a 10-year development period.   This would be brought about by
a total increase of 30 per cent in the effective calving rate, a
reduction from 7 to 3 per cent in the herd mortality rate, an increase
in slaughter weights of 20 to 40 per cent,and some reduction in the
slaughter age of steers. In addition, total cattle stocks on partici-
pating farms would increase by 4 to 5 per cent per year in the 10 years
needed to reach stable herd levels.
C. Cost Estimates
27.       The estimated total cost of the project is equivalent to
US$6.8 million and is summarized in the following table:
Foreign Exchange
Cost in     Equivalent      Component
Sucres '000    US$1000         uS$o000
Farm Development
Pasture Establishment     21,600          1,200             96
Pasture Renovation        14,400            800             40
Fencing                    7,920            4.0             88
Yards and Dips              7,800           433             78
Water Supplies              8,880           493            285
Farm Machinery            10,200            5f67           540
Breeding Stock            44,40o          2,467            213
Sub-total             115,200         6,400           1,340
Technical Services and        7,200            400            160
Materials
Total Project Cost          122,400          6,800          1,500
28.       Farm development costs aggregate US$6-4 million or about 94
per cent of the estimated total project cost. The costs of technical



-7-
services including the proposed investments in the Pichilingue experiment
station program account for the balance of US$0.4 million or about 6 per
cent. The foreign exchange component of US$1.5 million represents about
22 per cent of the total project cost and 38 per cent of the proposed
loan. A more detailed broakdown of the Project cost is given in
Annexes 2 and 3.
29.       Estimates for farm development costs are based on a representa-
tive farm investment plan as shown in Annex 4, Takle A. The costs of
technical services have been calculated for a 4-year employment period
of the Project Director and 4 to 7 local livestock technicians (Annex 3).
They include the cost of vehicles and staff transport as well as materials
and equipment for a seed multiplication service (Para. 25).
D. Proposed Financing
30.       The cost of the project, US$6.8 million equivalent, would be
financed as follows:
Bank      National        Faxmers
Loan       Banks        Contribution       Total
- US$'000 Equivalent -
Farm Development       3,840     1,280             1,280          6,400
(Distribution)         (60%):    (20%)             (20%)          (100%)
Technical Services       160        240              -              400
Total             4,000     1,520             1,280          6,800
(Distribution)         (59%)     (22%)             (19%)          (100%)
31.       For farm development the owner would provide in cash, labor,
and materials about 20 per cent of the estimated costs. The other 80
per cent of the cost would be advanced to the farmer as a loan from
participating banks at 10 per cent interest per annum for a term of
8 to 12 years including a grace period of 3 to-5 years. The banks
would obtain 75 per cent of their relevant funds (60 per cent of the
total farm development cost) from the proposed Bank loan and would
contribute the balance of 25 per cent (20 per cent of the total cost)
from th6ir own resources. A higher contribution from them cannot be
eXpected since this would adversely influence their activities in other
development financing. Also, this should be viewed against the back-
ground of A policy of, monetary restraint, being pursued apparently
successfully, to counter inflationary and import pressures which were
apparent during 1966. Farm loans would meet credit and security policies
of the lending banks and any short-term credit required would be provided
by them if not available from other resources.
32.       Farmers would experience a reduction in their annual income dur-
ing the early stages of farm development due to retention of breeding stock
which otherwise would have been sold, and increased operating cost before
greater returns can be realized from herd buildup (Annex 4, Table E).



- 8 -
Therefore, their total financial contribution would be substantially
higner than their projected participation in the investment cost of the
project. In view of the financial resources available to them, this
contribution is considered to be reasonable.
33.       For the relatively small cost of technical services, the foreign
exchange portion (US$160,000) would be provided by the proposed Bank loan.
This portion covers the salary of the Project Director, the importation of
vehicles and office equipment, and the foreign exchange cost of equipment
and materials for the seed multiplication service.
34.      The Bank loan of US$4.0 million would be made to the Government
of Ecuador which would carry the exchange risk. Proceeds of the loan for
expenditures in sucres would then be made available to the Participating
Banks through the Central Bank which would act as the Government's fiscal
agent. The Participating Banks would make repayments to the Central
Barnl in sucres and the Central Bank in turn would service,on behalf of
the Government, the debt to the Bank in foreign currency..
35.       In order to allow for partial rollover of funds, the terms of
the Bank loan would be 18 years including 6 years of grace. To induce
wider participation of the national banking system, the same terms
would be applied in making the Bank loan available to participating
banks. However, to recover the commitment charge on the Bank loan,
paid by the Central Bank, and also t,ie salary and other costs of the
Project Director which would be paid out of the proceeds of the'Bank
loan, the Central Bank would charge participating banks one-half of
1 per cent per annum on the loan amount outstanding in addition to the
Bank's interest rate. 'This charge also would be sufficient to cover
the Central Banlk's acdninistrative cost (Annex 5).
E. Disbursements
36.      Withdrawals from the Bank loan for farm development would be
75 per cent of disburqements made by the Participfting Banks for this
purpose (Para. 31). This method is proposed since it would not be'
feasible to relate the Bank's participation directly to individual
investment items of total; expenditures incurred for farm development.
Thus, documentation of the percentage reimbursements would consist ofi
a statement of amounts disbursed by participating banks to farmers.
For the foreign exchange ?ost of technical servicps, disbursements
would be made against appropriate documentati6n. The total disburse-
ment period of the Project would extend over four years. Within this
framework each individual, farm development loan would normally be
disbursed in three annual installments. The Participating Banks wbuld
establish and maintain separate accounts for the livestock development
project and such,accpunt,s would be audited annually by an accountant
acceptable to the Bank.



- 9 -
F. Operating Results
37.       The expected financial implications for the Participating Banks
of the livestock development project are set forth in Annex 6. According
to this projection, proceeds from repayment of principal and interest on
farm loans would cover all obligations for the Bank loan debt service.
The Participating Banks would also recover their contribution of about
US$1.3 million during the 8 to 12 year anortization period of the farm
loans. Cash surpluses accruing to them during an intermediate period
would go into a special relending fund to be used only for livestock
development purposes.
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND NANAGEMENT
General
38.       The coordinating and supervisory authority for the ?roject,would
be the Project Commission (Para. 20) to be created by Government decree.
This Commission would be responsible for promotion and implementation of
the Project, its operational policies, and t4he employment of the Project
Director. The Commission would also determine the suitability of ba'nks
wishing to participate in the Project and would review their performance.
The organizational structure is shown in Annex 7.
39.       Execution of the Project would be the responsibility of the
Project Director who would be a foreign expert. He would have authority
to approve the livestock technicians employed by the Participating Banks
and seconded to the Project Director's staff; he would train this staff
and supervise its work. He would also approve or reject farm develop-
ment plans prepared for loan applications and would submit approved
plans to participating banks for lending. Participating banks would
make the financial appraisal of the applicant. The Project Director
would advise Participating Banks through the Project Commission to
suspend, and, where appropriate, premature a loan whenever he found
that the farm development plan for which the loan had been granted was
not being carried out in accordance with the loan agreement. Also, he
would inform the Paiticipating Bank through the'Project Commission if
and when the situation has been satisfactorily rectified. His duties,
responsibilities and authorities are set forth in Annex 8.
Participating Banlcs
40.       The Central Bank would act as the Government's fiscal agent in
administering the Bank loan. It would handle the reimbursement procedure
for the Bank financed portion of farm development loans, and would pay
the salary and international travel of the Project Director out of the
loan account. It would also pay the Bank's commitment charge.



- 10 -
41.       At present, NDB and Compania Financiera Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo
(COFIEC), a private finance development corporation, have indicated their
interest to participate in the Project. An agreement between the
Governmlent, Central Bank and each participating bank would provide for the
administrative responsibility and control of the Project by the Project
Commission through the Project Director. Financially, NDB and COFIEC
would process farm development loans in the normal way. They would bear
all costs of their respective technicians under arrangements satisfactory
to the Bank. Details of the organization and financial operations of
participating banks are given in Annex 1. Participation by other banks
would be open and would be subject to the approval of the Bank upon
recommendation of the Project Commission. Since NDB is operating with a
narrou margin of profitability (Annex 1, Para. 16) assurance would be
obtained that its participation in the Project would depend on contracting
the services of a short-tert operations consultant to assist it on the
improvement of its operations for the purposes of the Project.
Technical Services
42.       Qualified livestock technicians to be employed by the ParticipatinC
Banks would assist farmers to prepare individual development plans under
the direction of the Project Director (Para. 39). The technicians would
also be responsible for supervising the execution of plans for which loans
are riaade. The Project would require only four local technicians in the
first year and a total of seven in'the following years. No difficulty is
expected in the recruitment of this staff in Ecuador.
43.       Financial assistance to the Pichilingue Experiment Station to
cover the foreign currency costs for the importation of seed, fertilizer,
machinery, and qualified technical advice would be made available only
on recommendation of;the Project Director. Local currency costs would
be borne by the Government.
Procurement
h1.       Goods required for farm development would be obtained through
eristing cornmercial chax)nels which would be adequate for the Froject.
Since there are several retail sources for most goods, both iAported
and local, sufficient competition in the supply of goods required for
farm development is assured. Adequate facilities exist for the servicing
and maintenance of agricultural machinery and equipment. All purchases
of livestock required for the Project would be subject to the approval
of the: Project Director with respect to the quality and suitability of
such stock. Since the type and quality of animals required can only be
obtained from specific regions of the world, international competitive
bidding would also not be appropriate for livestock procurement.
Imports would be handled by importers through established commercial
channels.



Marketing
1415.     Beef cattle produced on the farms participating in the Project
wvould be marketed through commercial channels.  The present marketing
-ystem has some major drawbacks which are impediments to more profitable
livestock production. They include on-ranch purchases of live animals
by middlemen on an estimated carcass weight basis, fixing of retail meat
prices at artificially low levels by most large municipalities, lack of
a grading system or higher prices per kilo for better quality cattle,
small differentials for retail cuts, inadequate siaughtering facilities,
and failure to process by-products.
46.       Most of these deficiencies would be overcome by implementation
of a new law 1/ regulating the domestic slaughter of cattle. This law
is of great importance for the livestock industry in that it provides
payment by grades, daily listing of prices for national circulation,
and the use of scales at markets and at slaughterhouses to eliminate the
general malpractice of weight underestimation on the part of the middle-
man. It also provides the legal basis for the establishment of
privately owned modern slaughterhouses.
47.       New slaughterhouses with modern facilities including refrigerated
storage and by-product treatment plant are planned for Guayaquil and
Santo Domingo in 1967,and for Loja, Quito and Tulcan in 1970. There are
indications, though, that the total designed capacity of these proposed
new slaughterhouses would exceed the supply likely to be channeled for
slaughter through these plants. In this connection, representatives of
the planned Guayaquil and Quito slaughterhouses expressed their concern
over the export of live cattle to Peru and proposed its restriction until
local quotas could be satisfied. This implies market restriction and
monopolization to compensate for operational inefficiency.   It is possible
that sanitary controls may be used as a means of restricting market
outlets and not solely for animal health purposes.
48.       Cattle and beef prices reportedly had been stable for many
years until 1965 when the wholesale price of beef was increased by about
20 per cent. Present wholesale prices vary between 11.50 and 12.50
sucres per kilogram carcass weight (US$0.29 - 0.31 pQr pound).
Competition from Peru for available output of cattle from Ecuador has
resulted in a shortage of cattle for local consumption. The price paid
in Peru is about 50 per cent higher than in Ecuador and is sufficiently
attractive to producers and middlemen to have created a strong export
trade, much of it illegal (Para. 13).
1/ "Ley de M4ataderos" - Decreto Supremo No. 2853, December 1965.



- 12 -
49.       Since freedom of market access would be a necessary stimulus
to livestock producers and would be of significant benefit to the
economy, assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Goverrment
and its agencies would not restrict the movement and marketing of cattle
either within the country or for export, and would allow domestic prices
to adjust to export market levels.
V   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
50.       The benefits to participating farmers from investments made
under the Project are analyzed in Annex 4. The estimates are based on
a typical farm in the Guayas Project Area.  Expected results pet farm
at various stages of development are summarized as follows:
650 Ha Farm                                       On
(Investment cost:         Before     After 5    Completion     Per cent
L80,000 sucres/farm)     Development   Years    of Development  Increase
Total Herd, Head             500          780        1,110        125
Output, Head                  65          100          215        230
Net Prcfit, '000 Sucres        50          41 l/       425        750
Hierd Value, '000 Sucres     600        1,160        2,200        270
1/ After debt service
51.       As these projections show, the net cash profit per farm would
increase by more than 700 per cent over 12 years. At the same time
cattle numbers would increase by 125 per cent with an increase in value
of 270 per cent. These benefits would be derived from an investment of
46O,COO sucres (US$26,700) per farm.
52.       The net incremental increase in total beef production due to
the Project is estimated to be 8,200 metric tons carcass weight per
annum (16,400 tons liveweight) valued at about US$6.0 million at current
domestic prices to the producer. These gains would be realized after
completion of the Project and when herds and output stabilize around
the twelfth year.
53.       Assuming that 50 per cent of the increase in beef production
would be exported, the Project's annual contribution to the balance of
payments would be substantial. At export prices of about 16 sucres per
kilogram carcass weight (US$0.4o per lb.) the gross increase in foreign
exchange earnings per annum would be approxdL.mately US$304 million.
Deducting the foreign exchange component of production costs and debt
service, the net increase would be about US$3.0 million.



- 13 -                       (Adjusted)
5b.       The cash flows of estimated increased costs, including the
US$6.8 million (122.h m sucres) investment cost and of the estimated
revenues from incremental sales are summarized in Annex 9. For these
calculations it has been assumed that the lifetime of individual farm
development plans would average 20 years and that all investments
other than livestock would have no residual value at the end of that
period. Under these assumptions, the Project is estimated to yield
an average annual net return to the economy of Ecuador of about _
per cent.
55.       These calculations do not take into consideration other more
intangible benefits to the beef cattle industry as a whole. In
particular the Project would provide an important source of high
producing beef breeding stock and introduce modern production techniques
such as the use of tropical pasture legumes, herd and pasture management
and disease and parasite control. The Project's technical service would
assist in developing standards ia a wider sphere than the Project alone,
especially in the future expansion of the industry. The demonstration
value of the Project would be considerable. The Project is thus a means
to a greater end.
VI. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMEDATIONS
56.       The Project, which is the first stage of a long-term livestock
development program, is technically sound and economically justified.
Ihe organizational arrangements proposed are adequate. Participating
banks have sufficient financial resources to provide their contribution.
The demand for such development is great and farmers are highly interested
in participating.
57.       The Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$4.O million.
The borrower would be the Government of Ecuador and a Project Commission
would administer the Project. An appropriate term for the Bank loan
would be 18 years, including a grace period of 6 years. The loan would
be quivalent to about 59 per cent of the total project cost.
58.       During negotiations assurances satisfactory to the Bank were
obtained as follows:
(a) The Government of Ecuador would:
(i) undertake a detailed study of the livestock
industry which would serve as a basis for a
possible second stage livestock development
project (Para. 21);



- 14 -
(ii) cause the Central Bank in making the
Bank lcan available to participating
banlks to charge not more than one-
half of 1 per cent per annum as
coverage for the salary and travel
costs of the Project Director, the
commitment charge of the Bank loan
and the administrative cost of the
Central Bank. This, when added to
the Bank's interest rate would be
the only amount charged to
participating banks for the proceeds
of the Bank loan (Para. 35);
(iii) create a Project Commission responsible
for coordination and supervision of the
Project and would appoint a Project
Director satisfactory to the Bank prior
to the effective date of the Loan
(Para. 38);
(iv)  provide financial assistance to the
Pichilinque Experiment Station
(Para. 43);
(v) maintain the free movement of cattle
and beef to domestic and export
markets and would allow domestic
prices for these commodities to
adjust to export market levels
(Para. 49);
(b) The National Development Bank and participating private
banks would:
(i) make farm development loans exceeding
the equivalent of US$100,000 only
after prior approval of the Bank
(Para. 23);
(ii) make available for lending to
farmers as promptly as necessary
local currency funds equaling 25
per cent of approved farm
development loans (Para. 31);



- 15 -
(iii) make farm development loans to farmers
participating in the Project upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(Para. 31);
(iv) provide the short-term credit necessary
tc. complement farm development, loans
unless otherwise available (Para. 31);
(v) mzi-ntain separate accounts for the
livestock development project and
arrange for auditing of these accounts
by an accountant acceptable to the
Bank (Para. 36);
(vi)  use the proceeds of payments from farm
loans granted under the Project not
required to service the Bank loan for
the purpose of livestock development
(Para. 37);
(vii) make arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank to employ a staff of qualified
livestock technicians who would be
responsible for assisting farmers in
the preparation of farm development
plans,and for supervising the execution
of plans for which loans are made
(Para. 42); and
(c) The National Development Bank would:
(i) make arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank with respect to its operations
for the purposes of the Project
-(Para. 41).
April 24, 1967
Sclchaefer-Kehnert/ml






A EX 3
Fag3 1
E C U A D O R
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE BANKING SYSTEM
1.        Of total credit in Ecuador, only about 10 percent goes to
agriculture; of this approximately 45 percent is provided by the Government'-
National Development Bank, 35 percent by private banks and credit societies
and 20 percent by the Central Bank. A detailed breakdown of the annual
volume of credit is given in Table 1.
A. Central Bank
2,        At the head of the banking system is the Central Bank.   It is
essentially private in corporate structure with 90 percent of its capital
shares owned by the private banks and the other 10 percent by the Govern-
ment. The Bank's headquarters are in Quito and there are ten branches
throughout the country.
3.        Amirnistratively, the Central Bank is under a Monetary Board
composed of nine members, five from the private sector and four from the
public sector. The Superintendent of Banks is an ex-officio member.
1.        The principal function of the Central Bank as executing agency
of the Monetary Board is to maintain monetary stability. Its principal
tools are :regulation of legal reserve requirements, fixing discount terms
for credit collateral, establishing interest rates for deposits and credits,
approving terms for issuance of mortgage and debenture bonds, control of
foreign exchange rates, and the establishment of deposits for imports and
exports.
5.        The Bank has paid-up capital of 22 million sucres (US$1.2
million), and reserves of 66 million sucres (US$3.1 million), Table 2.
The Barns made a net annual operating profit (before reserves and
dividends on stock) of US$275,000 in 1963 and US$1.9 million in 1965.
B. Private Banks
6.        rJithin this category are commercial banks, savings banks,
mortgage banks and private financing companies. Only three banks are
significant in agricultural credit, accounting for 75 percent of the
total of farm credit from private banks. These are Banco del Descuento,
Banco del Pichincha and La Previsora Banco Nacional de Credito.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
All were contacted during mission appraisal, but showed no interest in
participating in the Project for various reasons: lack of capital; more
profitable short-term lending; policy of retaining a high ratio of
liquidity; conservative rediscount policy of the Monetary Board to control
inflation; and uncertain future government policies reflecting current
political and financial difficulties.
7.        Generally, loan terms are under one year at 10 percent interest
discounted in advance; with commissions, service fees and other charges
the credit cost is 12 to 15 percent per annum. This short-term lending
policy contributes to a high percentage of loan renewals which in 1965
were nearly 50 percent of total loans granted in the agricultural sector
by the private banks.
C. Finance Corporation
8.        There are two financial development corporations:   the Comision
de Valores-Corporacion Financiera Nacional, a government institution, and
Ecuatoriana de Desarollo S.A. Compania Financiera (COFIEC), a private
finance development corporation which began operations early in 1966.
The National Finance Corporation is primarily concerned with the indus-
trial sector and will not be making loans to farmers.
9.        COFIEC's authorized capital is 36 million sucres of which
nearly 20 million has been subscribed and paid ty over 70 stockholders.
It is expected that all the authorized stock will have been subscribed
by the end of 1966. All but two national private banks are stoqkholders
and the National Finance Corporation is the principal stockholder. In
addition to its own capital, COFIEC has a long-term loan of US$3.0 million
from the U. S. Agency for International Development (AID), and more than
US$1.0 million short-term credit from other foreign sources.
10.       Financial operations for September 1966 reflected a net gain
(income less expenses) in the Corporation's first six months of
operation. It is expected that by the end of 1966 the aggregate net
gain would exceed earlier deficits.  During these six months, COFIEC
processed 47 loans and disbursed 20 million sucres (US$1.0 million)
against comnitments of over 50 million sucres. One of COFIEC's
principal functions is to finance industrial enterprises and the pro-
duction of the products required by an enterprise.
D. National Development Bank (NDB)
11.       The present National Development Bank is a successor to several
earlier institutions, the first of which began operations in 1928.



AIR'lfX 1
Page 3
The Bank is headed by a Board of Directors of five member., one <hosen by
the Monetary Board of the Central Bank to represent private busiAess (since
the Central Bank is constituted by private banks); two members represent
the Sierra Chamber of Commerce and the Costa Chamber of Agriculture
respectively; one is appointed by the President of the Republic, and is
usually a farmer; and one is elected by the four members and is designated
President of the Bank. Board memibers usually serve two-year terms. The
Board appoints the Gendral Manager for a!term 6f four years, and branch
bank managers on recomriendation of the General Manager.
12.       Bank operations are conducted by five principal departments:
Tcchnical and Statistical, Auditing, Banking Credit, Supervised Credit,
and Finance. The General Manager has two advisoIs who together with the
heads of the above fiv9 departments, the General Manager and the Assistant
Manager, constitute thea top management of NDB. See Chart 1 for present
organization and Chart 2 for recommended reorganization of Central NDB
to streamline its administration and to improve management control of
operations. This reorganization includes reconmen'dation made by an Ohio
State University study group (OSU) in 1966 and certain modifications made
by the mission. Reorganization was discussed with NDB and it had
appointed a Committee for further study and implementation.
13.       The principal functions of the NDB are to grant loans for
agricul l'ire and livestock, fishing, small industries and artisan
enterprises; to accept short and lorng-term deposits and savings; to
attract domestic savings by issuance of negotiable credit instruments
(bonds-certificates); to obtain loans, discounts and advances from the
Central Bank and other financial institutions of the country; and to
obtain loans from foreign or international financial entities.
1a.       The NDB obtains its lending resources from three principal
sources: Government budget, rediscount with Central Bank and issuance of
mortgage bonds. Until now, the Government contribution has been irregular
since it was based on certain pro-rates from various taxes. This was
changed by the Agriculture Law of 1964 which stipulated that NDB shall
receive 50 million sucres annually. However, the 1965-66 fiscal diffi-
culties of Ecuador caused the Bank to receive in 1966 only 30 million
zucres. The mechanism of using mortgage bonds instead of cash for
making long-term mortgage loans is declining in importance whereas
capital from foreign sources is increasing. At the end of 1965 foreign
loans amounted to 110 million sucres compared with 11 million at the
end of 1963. The following summary shows the principle resources for
lending for the 5-year period, 1961-65 (Table 3):



ANNEX
Page h
Average
Source                       Annual Amount           Percent
(Million Sucres)
Denosits                                   166.6                   18
Discounts with Central Bank               195.1                    20
iortgage-Bonds                             85.8                    9
Foreign Loana                               37.0                    4
Capital and Reserves                      467.0                    49
951.5                  100
15.       Until 1965, the NDB had operating losses of 3-10 million sucres
annually. In 1965 it made a small net operating income (before adjust-
ment for bond losses and reserves) of S/273,000 (Table 4). It is
expected that net profit for 1966 will be at least 4 million sucres
(US$220,000). This improvement in financial operations reflects tighter
budgetary control over the branch barks, reduction in administrative
expense by some offices through reduction of personnel, and a better rate
of collections on past-due loans.
16.       A recent analysis of NDB's financial operations for 1965 by
the OcU study group shows that it is operating close to a break-even
point. Total expenses as a percentage of productive assets (cash, loans
-ad investments) anounted to 6.9 per cent.  This is divided between 3.3
per cent for personnel expenses, 2 per cent for interest and 1.6 ;er cent
ficr general expenses. The ratio of personnel expenses was cqnsidered
h       With the need fpr reserves of 2 per cent, administrative expenses
must be reduced since -the Bank's interest rates on supervised credit
loans is only 8 per cent and commercial farm loans 9 per cent.
17.       Until 1964, the NDB system was practically an autonomous
operation by a bank in each province which had its'own board of directors,
separate capital and fUllcwed its own operating pqlicies. Political
influence was common - both as to the appointment of management and
lending operations. This situation was changed by Decree in 1964
which abolished the-provincial boards of directors, consolidated the
system's financial resources, and centralized policy and administrative
supervision in the national bank under one board of directors. Political
influences have been 4inimized, central budgetary control has been
instituted, uniform lending policies have been established, managerDlent



ANTEX 1
Page 5
in the branch offices has been improved by replacement of more than
half of the managers, greater effort is being made on collections, and
uncoilectib{e loans, after thorough investigations, are being written-
off. Each branch office is now regularly audited (previously some had
not been audited for several years), and also inspected for compliance
with lending regulations.
18.       In addition,to steps already taken by NDB to improve its
operations, more can be done which would bring about savLngs in
administrative costs, and would improve its services to borrovers. A
system of regular management and operational review of the branch
offices to complement the financial audit system how followed snould
be instituted. Procedures for processing loans could be simplified,
forms should be revised and consolidated, better control of borrowers'
loan accounts can be set-up, anc appraisal performance can be improved
-;th a better form to include an analysis of the earning power and
value of the farm.   To assist NDB to imiprove its management and
operations, a short-t,'rm operat-Lons corisultant experienced in farm
credit should be obtained.
29.       The OSU study estimated that about 93 million sucres are
totally uncoUectible and must be written off from the assets of the
Bank, in addition to some 46 million sucres written off in recent years.
In relating the total of 139 million sucres to total loans granted
since the NDB began operations in 19h8, more or less in its present
form, the amount of losses is less than 3 per cent during this
18-year period. The estimate of 93 million sucrds as being uncollectible
and not written-off represents U.5 per cent of present total loan
volume of 800 million sucres, some 6.7 per cent of total Bank assets,
and nearly 20 per cent of capital and resources. The OSU study group
thought that with the improvement in recent years in the quality of
loans being made, NDB's future loss ratio would be approximately 2
per cent of loans made.
20.      iNDB's past due loan position has fluctuated between approxi-
mately 30 and 40 per cent of total loans outstanding. This condition
improved in 1966, but it partially reflected write-offs of uncollectible
loans. Sixty per cent of past due loans is composed of loans that
matured during the last three years.
21.       Branch offices in the Project areas generally have a vigorous
collection system; outstanding is the Guayaquil office which immediately
contacts borrowers when they fail to pay their matured loan accounts,
or deferred payment agreements.



At.i'EX 1
Page 6
22.       Generally, agricultural loans made by NDB from its own funds
are limited to three years. Longer term loans up to seven years are
made with IDB and Export-Import Bank funds. The interest rate of 8
per cent for banking division loans, plus 1 per cent for devaluation
of currency makes a total rate of 9 per cent; supervised credit loans
bear a total rate of 8 per cent. Interest is collected in advance
for loans made by NDB frot its own funds. Additional charges for
forms, ta.es and commissions bring total effective cost to over 10
per cent.
23.       Loans are secured by promissory notes, which in turn may be
secured by crop pledges, chattel mortgages on livestock and/or machinery,
first mortgages on real estate,and co-signers. The latter surety is
required frequently for short-term production loans. Long-term loans
secured by real estate mortgage may not exceed 60 per cent of the
market value of the security, or 100 per cent of the net worth of an
individual borrower, or 100 per cent of paid capital and reserves in
the case of a corporation or company.
April 24, 1967



ANNEX 1
Table 1
E C U A D O R
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPiIDENT PROJECT
ANNUAL VOLUME OF CREDIT GRANTED BY SECTOR
BY LENDING INSTITJTMON, 1961 - 1965
Lending                                                                   Percent
Institution                                                               of Total
and Sector        1S61       1962       1963       1964       1965          1965
(million sucres)
Private Banks
Agriculture    102.5       93.9       98.8       161.2      344.o          47
Commercial   1,903.6    1,890.0    2,108.2     3,470.1    3,422.9          87
Industrial     283.6      277.8      375.9       444.5      491.0          41
Other          351.6      251.0      312.0       535.5      388.1          90
Total      2,641.3    2,512.7    2,894.9     4,611.3    4,646.0          74
National Devel-
opment Bank
Agriculture    234.2      183.9       201.9      246.9      253.4          35
Commercial      22.9       19.4       20.8        20.7       13.3          -_ i/
Industrial      45.5       41.7       44.3        81.4       42.0           4
Other           32.0       18.3        27.6       27.1       27.0           7
Total        334.6      263.3       294.6    376.1        335.7
Central Bank
Agriculture    114.2      108.5       104.4      101.0      133.1          18
Commercial     598.5      826.3       729.5      746.6      517.4          13
Industrial     246.7      252.0       290.6      420.8      647.4          55
Other          108.9       46.2        68.6       19.2       13.2           3
1,068.3    1,233.0    1,193.1    18,26.6    1,311.1           21
All Institutions
Agriculture    450.9-     386.3       405.1      509.1      730.5          11
Commercial   2,525.0    2,735.7     2,858.5    4,237.4    3,953.6          63
Industrial     575.8      571.5       710.8      946.7    1,180.4          19
Other          492.5      315.5       408.2      581.8      428.3           7
Total      4,044.2    4,009.0    4,382.6     6,275.0    6,292.8         100
Source: Central Bank
1/ Less than 1 percent.
April 24, 1967



ANiEX 1
Table 2
E C U A D O R
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OF CENTRAL BANK. DECEMBER 31, 1965
(million sucres)
A.   BALANCE SHEET
Assets                               Liabilities
Gold Bullion                 200     Foreign Obligations          60
Foreign Exchange             54i8    Domestic Obligations         54
Inv'ts in Foreign Currency    78     IMF Obligation               468
IMF Subscription             360     Monetary Obligations      1.945
Cheques and BiUls             18     Deposits                     534
Guaranteed Bonds              73   Capital and Reserves
Domestic Credits           1.626     Paid-in Capital               22 1/
Credit Instruments            18     General Reserves             66
Dererred Assets              103     Other Liabilities            75
Other Assets                 200
TOTAL                    3.224       TOTAL                    3.224
B.   FTNA.ICIAL OPERATING STATEMENT
Incoimie                             Expenses
Interest                  64.1       Interest                    .8
Comrnissions               7.6       Coimaissions              1.2
Exchange                  13.3       General Expenses          59.0
Recoveries                .1.5       Depreciation               9.8
Sales of Equipment          .6       Property Expenses           .1
Varipus Profits           18.7       Miscellaneous Expenses    1.0
Sub-Total               71.9
General Reserve           27.8
3miployees Reserve         3.5
Net Profit                 2.6 2/
TOTAL                  105.8         TOTAL                 105.8
1/ S/20 million Class A stock held by private banks and S/2 million
Class B stock held by Governm&nt.
2/ Dividend on capital stock.
Source: Central Bank
April 24, 1967



E C U A D O R                      ANNEX 1
Table 3
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL BALANCE SHEET FOR
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANK. 1961 - 1965
1961      1962     1963      1964     1965
(million sucres)
ASSETS
Cash and Cheques                      56.7      78.7     88.0      93.9     59.8
Provincial Bank Accounts               2.1      63.7     64.9      88.9
Loans - Banking Division             645.5     637.7    668.8     754.0    783.2
Loans - Supv'd, Credit Division         -         -        -         -       24.5
Loans - Provincial Banks             162.4     155.8    160.1     203.5       -
Credit on Acceptances                 65.2      52.7     48.3      54.3     53.7
Investments                           47.6      60.3     63.5      51.0    210.9
Mortgage Certificates                144.2     135.8    130.7     174.7       -
Other Assets                          39.6      44.3     42.0      49.1     43.1
3ferred Assets                       20.0      25.4     38.1      44.3     87.3
Inventory                              1.8       1.7      1.6      13.4       -
Buildings and Equipment               35.9      41.3     40.1      47.3     53.9
Clearing Acccunt for Branches          1.4      i1.6       .7       2.0       -
Profit and Loss Account               10.3      10.2      6.7       3.1       -
TOTAL ASSETS                   1,232.7  1,309.2   1,353.5  1,579.5  1,316.4
LIABILITIES
Money Deposits                       129.7     150.9    174.2     193.4    174.7
Reserves for Prov. Bank Acc'ts        17.2      77.5     85.4     111.5       -
Short Term Obligations                45.7      44.8     38.6      63.1    35.3
Reserve for Acceptances               65.2      52.7     48.3      54.3     534
Loans from Private Banks             369.6     344.8    336.5     407.8    248.9
Loans from National Entities          73.2      71.0     68.9      65.8       -
Loans from Foreign Sources              -         -      11.9      74.8   109.9
Mortgage Bonds                        85.2      93.9      92.3     86.7     70.9
Other Liabilities                     11.3      12.1     12.7      13.3    41.2
Deferred Liabilities                  17.2      26.4     25.6      26.1    41.4
Clearing Account for Branches           -         -        -         -        .4
CAPITAL
Paid-in Capital - Banking Division   387.4     406.7    429.6     456.8    486.7
Paid-in Capital - Supv'd Credit Div.    -         -        -         -        -
RESER'!ES
General                                6.1       4.6      4.6       4.0      5.1
Special                               15.5      14.5     15.4      12.6     5.1
Losses on Loans                        9.4       9.3      9.5       9.3       -
Devaluation of Currency                 -         -        -         -      42.8
Profit and Loss Account                 -         -        -         -3 .
TOTAL LI.'BILITI- ANXD NET WORTH     1,232.7   1,309.2   1,353.5  1,579.5 1,316.4
Source: National Development Bank
April 24, 1967



F  C  IT  i  D  '- R
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENT QF OPERATIONS,
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANK, 1961 - 1965
1961              1962              1963              1964            1965
co  INCOME                                                       (million sucres)
Interest Earned and
Collected                   19.849            39.801            52.825           58.914           62.193
Commissions on Loans            .504             1.246             1.221             1.186           4.782
Miscellaneous Commissions      1.517             3.502             3.662             3.259            -
Earnings on Investments        1.377             2.410             1.283             3.667             -
Recoveries                       326              .612              .993              .400             .585
Products of Properties         -.732              .748              .664            1X.200            -
Miscellaneous Profits          1.658             1.279              .642            1.652            54970
Profit & Loss - Credit Balance  .128              -                 .002              -
TOTAL                         26.091             997              61.292            70.277          73.530
Loss                          10.344            10.172             6.655             3.067            -
TOTAL                         36 435            59.7770           67.947            73e345          73.5 30
EXPENSES
Personnel                     15.695            28.341            30.440            35.126          46.825
General                        3.772             7.077             9.610            10.329
Int. on Bonds & Certificates   3.401             7.743             8.237             7.835            _
Interest on Deposits            .219              .528              .589              .652
Interest on Loans              7.244            U.791             13.338            14.l31          21.196
Commissions Paid & Payable      .530              .842              .761              .207
Property Expenses               .204              .680              .499             1.035           1.344
Miscellaneous Losses           3.515              .480             1.752             1.397                   e
Store Operations                .016              .038              .063              _                -
Write-Offs, Depreciation,      1.o39             2.250             2.k99             2.431            3.892 I >
and Amortization
Profit & Loss - Credit Balance                                      .159              o002 
Net Gain                        -                 -                 _                                  .273
TOTAL                         361435            59.770            67.947            73.3k5           73.530
Sour-.e: National Develor:ient Bank



ECUADOR: NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD
_        |       l                    H     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COMMITTEES
.       |     GEN~~ERAL MANAGER
ASSiSTANT GENERAL MANAGER
| AUDIT D IEPARTMk             .                      | SECRETARY GENERAL
CONTROL OF 
INVESTMENTS SECTION
DEPARtTMENT O'LEGAL            OPRTOSDEVELOPMENT            EPREN O          FINANCE        ESNE           SESADSRIE
F          R           DEPARTENST      CREDITS     TE ADMINISTRATION  E             PERSLPARTMENT  |               SERV
STUDIES  DEPARTMENT  DEPARTMENT  DEPARTMENT     OF BRANCHES    DEATETDEPARTMENT             PARTICIPATIONS  DEPARTMENT
AGRICULTURE  I   ENQUIRLEGAL  AGRICTURAL                                   EX ERNAL     EVALUATION AND
AGRICULTIA          NADMINISTRATION            LOANSUPPLIES
SECTION                                      SECTIONN                                         NrS
ELECTR ~ ~ ~ ~ SETS                                      SETOCALET NSC
IMD  ~   LWSISLASDU                     RDTORAIAINSOCIAL                                                       RAO1O-COMMINCATION
rmN  ~  SCIO           ECINSECTION                                                SERVIONCESIO
STIS TISECTION
ELECTPIGW,  -AL
| B8RANCHES             I
BPD ,o- 3205 



ECUADOR: RECOMMENDED ORGANIZATION CHART FOR THE NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
BO8ARD      OF DIRECTORS 
|   EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE|
GENERAL MANAGER
SEII   TAR   GEERALI
|  ASSISTANT MANAGER  |                                                             | ASSISTANT MANAGER
|  ADMINISTRATION  l                                                              |  CREDIT OPERATIONS
LEGAL  FINANCIAL  |                                     | MANAGEMENT |                                          BANKING   | |SUPERVISEDS
L G L  SERVICES                                        SERVICES                                              CREDIT         CREDIT
BRANCH MANAGER
ASSISTANT ORANCH MANAGER]
LOAN SUPERVISION OFFICER
CHIEF ACCOUNTANT]                     ---- - -     INPCIONSTF
ACCOUNTING           CASHIER         LOAN ACCOUNTS   I     C     APORTFOLIO                             LEGAL
SERVICES             SECRETARY-                                                          FEX AGRICULTURAL
ELTENSION SERVICE]             O
Novefiber, 1966                                                                                                                                                (R)IRD-I3165 ex



ANNEX 2
' C U A D O R
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TOTAL INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Total      Foreign
Total        Total         Value     Exchange
Cash Flow                Physical      Value         US$      Component
Program    '000 Sucres   Equivalent      US$
F-arm Development
Pasture Establishment, Ha         36,000     21,600.0     1,200,000      96,000
Pasture Renovation, Ha            72,000      14,400.0      800,000      40,000
Fencing, Km                        2,640       7,920.0      440,000      88,000
Yards, No.                           300       5,100.0       283,333        --
Dips, No.                            180       2,700.0       150,000      78,00
Engines & Pumps, No.                 240       2,880.0       160,000    120,000
Water Supply, No.                  1,200       6,ooo0.       333,333     165,000
Tractor & Equipment, No.              60      10,200.0       566,666     540,000
Cattle Purchases, Bulls            1,440      10,800.0      600,000      60,000
Cattle Purchases, Heifers         16,800      33,600.0    1,866,668     153,000
Total Farm Development               -       115,200.0     6,400,000  1,340,000
Technical Services
Director Salary & Expenses             1       1,458.0        81,000     81,000
Local Staff Salaries              4 to 8       2,031.0       112,833        --
Other Administrative Costs             -       1,462.0        81X222        --
Vehicles                               8         720.0        40,000     40,000
Ofifice Equipment & Furniture          -          45.0         2,511       1,400
Seed Multiplication and
Contingencies                          -       1,484.0       82,434       37,600
Total Technical Services               -       7,200.0       400,000     160,000
Total Project Cost                     -     122,400.0     6,800,000   1,500,000
April 24, 1967






E C U A D O R
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
H                                                ADMINISTRATION BUDGET
NO                                                                                 Dollar     Foreign Exchange
Year No.             1       2        3       4     Total    Equivalent      Component
----------------- '000 Sucres ------       US$              USt
Project Director; Salary       324     324     324     324   1,296      72,000          72,000
Project Director; Travel        41      40      40      41     162       9,000           9,000
Sub Director; Salary            -      100     no      120      330     18,333
Technicians; Salary2/          240     370     385     400   1,395      77,500
Office Personnel; Salary_/      72      75      78      81      306     17,000
Per Diem Allowances3/          125     200     200     200     725      40,275
Office Expenses4/               36      36      36      36     1h4       8,000
Transport Sxpenses              75     128     136     144     483      26,833            _
Vehicles5/                     360     216      -      144     720      40,000          40,000
Office Equipment                18       4      -        3      25       1,400           1,400
Office Furniture                20      -       -       -       20       1,117            -
Contingencies                   20      25      30      35      no       6,1U4            -
Seed Multiplication Scheme      -    1,000     484      -    1,484      82,434          37,600
'TOTAL             1,331   2,518   1,823   1,528   7,200    400,006          160,000
1/  Year 1, 4 technici-ns; foUloing years, 6 techn4cians.
2/  6,000 Sucres per month for Driver, Secretary/typist.
3/  100 Sucres per day for 250 days per annum for project staff.
TT/ Includes rent and general expenses.
5/  1 Jeep/Landrover for each technician and director.






ANNE 4
Page 1
E C U A D O R
LIVESTOCK DEVEL40PMNT PROJECT
DEVEQPMENT OF A TYPICAL FARM
A.  INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Physical Investments                            Year               Total Farm
Per Farm                                 1        2        3         Program
Pasture Establishment, Ha                 -      100       50         150
Pasture Renovation, Ha                  100      100      100         300
Fencing, Km                               1.0      1.5      8.5        11.0
Yards, No.                                0.75     -        0.5         1.25
Dips, No.                                 0.75              -           0.75
Engine and Pump, No.                      1.0      -        -           1.0
Water Supply, No.                         1.0      1.0      3.0         5.0
Tractor and Equipment, No.                0.25     -        -           0.25
Cattle Purchases, Bulls                   -        2        4           6
Cattle Purchases, Heifers                20       20       30          70
Value of Investments              - - - - - - - - - Sucres - - - - - - - - -
Pasture Establishment                     -   60,000   30,000      90,000
Pasture Renovation                   20,000   20,000   20,000      60,000
Fencing                               3,000    4,500   25,500      33,000
Yards                                11,250        -   10,000      21,250
Dips                                 11,250        -        -      11,250
Engine & Pump                        12,000        -        -      12,000
Water Supply                          5,000    5,000   15,000      25,000
Tractor & Equipment                  42,500        -        _      42,500
Cattle Purchases, Bulls                   -   15,000   30,000      45,000
Cattle Purchases, Heifers            40,000   40,000   6o,0o     140,000
TOTAL                               145,000  144,500  190,500     480,000
April 24, 1967



ANNEX 1
Page 2
E C U A D OR
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
B. HERD DEVELOPMENT                             DEVELOPMENT OF A TYPICAL FARM
Before     ----------_-------------------------Years------------------------------------
Head   Development    1     2     3     4     5     6     7      8       9      10      11      12
BUlls                               8        8     8     8     10    10     1    U       11      11      11      12      12
Cows                              200      200   219   231    252   258   271   284     300     300     300     300     300
Calves Born                       104      104   123   139    163   181   217   227     240     240     240     240     240
1 y.o. Heifers                    140       45    45    54     64    76    84   100     107     113     113     113     113
1 y.o. Steers                      39       45    45    55     63    75    83    99     106.    112     112     112     112
2 y.o. Heifers                     38       37    41    42     52    63    74    82      98     105     111     111     111
2 y.o. Steers           e          37       36    41    42     53    62    73    81      97     104     110     uo      110
3 r.o. Steer.                      35       36    35    40     41    52    61    72      80      96     103     109     109
TOTAL                             501      511   557   611    698   777   874   956   1,039   1,081   1,100   1,107   1,107
TOTAL ANIMAL UNITS                397      407   434   472    535   596   657   729     799     841     860     867     867
PURCHASES
Bullx   "   -  -  2   4      2     4     3     3       3       3       4       3       3
Heifers                            -        20    20    30     -     -     -     -       -       -               -       -
SALES
Cull Bul                a          -        -      2     2      2     3     3     3       3       3       3       3       3
Steers                  n          35       36    35    40     41    52    61    72      80      96     103     109     109
Cull Cow s                         25       22    32    36     30    41    45    42      65      67      67      68      68
Cull Heifers                        4        7     9     8     10     3    10    18      25      30      36      36      36
TOTAL                              64       65    78    86     83    99  119    135     173     196     209     216     216
MORTALITY
Calves                             14       14    114   12     12    114   18    14      15      15      15      15      15
Adult Cattle            *          16       18    15    12      9    11    u     I1      13      13      13      12      12
TOTAL                   *          30       32    29    24     21    25    29    25      28      28      28      27      27
PRODUCTION STATISTICS
Effective Calving
Percentage                       45       45    50    55     60    65    75    75      75      75      75      75      75
Herd Mortality
Percentage                      7.0      6.9   5.8   4.3    3.6   3.7   3.8   3.0     3.2     3.2     3.1     3.0     3.0
St wking Rate
A *U- /H .                         0.8      0.8   0.9   0.8    0.8   0.9   1.0   1.1     1.2     1.3    13      1.3     1.3
Output Rate2/
Percentage                     12.8     12.7  14.0  14.1   11.9  12.7  13.6  14.1    16.6    18.1    18.9    19.5    19.5
Cow/Total Herd Ratio
Percentage                     5050.5                48.9  47.1  43.3  41.2  3B.9    35.6    34.9    34.6    34.6    34.6
Beef Output
Kilos/Ha.                      20.1     20.5  24.3  23.6   22.1  28.0  34.6 40.8     53.8    61.5    63.0    68.0    68.0
1/  Ani-al sold per 100 animals of stock.



ECUADOR LIVESTOCY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT OF A TYPICAL FAR1
(Sucresy
C. VAUE OF CATTLE SALES
Bcforo
-  Develop_    -  -  - -   -   -   -  -   -  -   -   -  -  -  -   -   -  -  -  -  -  -   -  -  -   -  -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -  YEARS3  -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -  -  -   -   -  -  -  -  -   -   -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
ment         1            2             3            4            5             6             7             8             9             10            11             12
Cull uills       Per Head           -          -                                   2 565                                                                                            3,308
Tatal              -          -          -5,130                                                                            ---9,923
Steer.           Per Head       1,950                                              2,295                                                                                             3, 307a/
Total         68,250                                             94,095                                                                                           36C ,517a,'
Call Cows        Per Head       1,437                                              1,620 o                                                                             2,062a/       2,100
Total         35,937      3   250/      165,C0/        _         48,600                                                                             138,1877/     142,800          145350/
Cull Heifers     Per Head       1,500                    1,700a/      1,750a/      1,800s/       2,00Oa/      2,000a/                                                                2,250
Total          6,0o0                     _                       18,000C                                                                                           81,000
Total Value of Sales          110,187                    1-65,825                                                                                                                   594,240
Purchases not financed in
Loan V-                                                                         10,OOa/      30,0COa/     22,5000/      30,000a/      37,500a/       45,000a/      70,000a/      54,oooa/        54,00 OD
tlet Sales                    110,187                                            155.825                                                                                           54C.240
D. OPERATING COSTS
Wages 2/                       35,500      35,500       36,925       38,350       39,775        41,200       47,750        48,850        50,050         51,200        52,350        52,350          52,350
Pasture Maintenance 3/         15,000      15,000       15,000       15,000       15,ooo        15,ooo       15,000        15,ooo        15,000         15,ooo        15,000        15,000          15,ooo
Vetertnary Costsi4/             3,176       4,884        6,076        7,552        9,630        11,920       13,797        16,038         18,377        20,184        21,500         22,542         23,409
Salt, Minerals 5/ and Feed      1,985       3,256        4,340        5,664        7,490         9,536       11,169        13,122         15,181        16,820        18,06o         19,074         19,941
Repairs and Maintenance         4,000       4,500        4,500        5,000        6,0oo         7,150        7,150         7,800          7,800         7,800         8,450         8,45o           8,450
Other 6/                        1,000       1,000        2,000        2,500        3,oco         3,500        4,000         4,250         4,500          4,750         5,000         5,200           5,400
Total                           60.661     64,140       68,841       74.066        80,895       88.306       98,866       105,060   10.908            115.754       120.900        122, 616       124.550
a/ Cannot be computed from information g;vcn in this workshop.
V/ Mostly purchases of additional bulls for breeding.                                                                                                                                                                        7
T Includes 1 foreman and 2 sn to year 5. From year 6 on 1 foremn ad 2A mee.                                                                                                                                                      c
3/ Includes cleaning and fertilizer costs.
Y/ Tear 1 at 8 s/. per head mncrasirg steadlly to 27 s/. per head in year 12.
5/ Year 1 at 5 s/. per head increasing steadily to 23 s/. per head in year 12.
9/  Includes contingencies and land taxes.



ECOADOR LISTOCK DEVl!OP ENT PROJBCT
RVNIALOFtT OF A T~   AIC FARh
(Sucres)-
Before                                  -   - -                                         -     -                                                         -       -
rent          1              2             3           4              5             6             7              8             9              10             31              12
S. FLNACIAL PB0JITION
Net Sales                       11',187                                               S55,825                                                                                              540,240
Operating Costs                 6o,661                  6        4   ,140        74,0 95              e5,30                     I             I- 4i7 . 1                     2t,9y        122,616         12L,552
Income belore debt service      h9,526                                                7L,930                                                                                              417,624
Intermt (1l%)                        -                                                                -8,4
LOan Repaymnt 
Per cent effective repayment
of principal                        -          _             _             _                      (5,A)         (15%)          (20%)         (20%)                         (20%)              -
TorALL Debt ser,izz                                                                   38,400 
Ba1anca after Debt Srvice       49,526        _                           _           36,530                        -             -                                                       417,624
Farm's Contribution I/                -                                                    -                                                         -
Famr's Net Cash Position        L9,526                                                36,530                                                                                              417,624
Annual Differences a                  -     (      ) 2_         )      (             (12,996)      (      )             -          -_                                                     368,099
Accumulated Di'ferences               -     (      )     (      )      (      )     (140,066)      (      )       _  _)          __)                                                      846,619
Increase in Herd Value 3/            _      10,000        87,187       192,030       356,880       561,530      722,010         935,642     :,;52,270      1,338,845      1,457,740     1,557,762       1,600,610
IL/ YArmsft contribution amounts to 20% of a total investrent of 480,ooo eucree.
2/ As coovared witk farmer's net cash pcsition before doevelopment.
/ In addition to berd value of 597,880 sucres before development.
Total loan a) loans as of Januarv 1        116.00        231 600       384 000       384 000
b) Loans as of Decenler 31       Fl='*        23t             4.          ___-



Page v
E C U A D O R
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT OF A TYPICAL FARM
F.   BASIC COST ASSUMPTIONS
a.   Investment Costs                    Units Per Farm             Cost Per Unit
Pasture Establishment 1/                                         (Sucres)
Banana Land                              75 ha                    300/ha
Forest Land                              75 ha                    900/ha
Pasture Renovation 2/                    300 ha                     200/ha
Fences 3/                               11.0 km                     300/km
Yards, Large                             0.75                    15,000/yard
Tards, Small 4/                         0.67                     O1,000/yard
Dips 5/                                  0.75                    15,000/dip
Engine and Pump 6/                          1                    12,000/unit
WIater Supply 7/                            5                     5,000/dam
Tractor & Equipment 8/                   0.25                   170,000/unit
Cattle Purchases, Bulls 9/                 6                      7,500/head
Cattle Purchases, Heifers 10/              70                     2,000/head
&.   Operating Costs                Unit              Cost Per Unit Per Annum
Before           During
Development      Development
(sucres)
Wages, Foreman 11/          per iran           17,500       17,500 - 24,000
Wages, Stoclahan12/        per man             9,000        9,OCO - 9,600
Pasture iaintenance 13/     per ha                 60              60
(250 ha per farm)
Veterinary Costs 14/        per animal              8           12 - 27
Salt, Minerals & Feed 15/   per animal              5            8 - 23
Repairs & Maintenance 16/   per ha                  8            9 - 13
Other (Fuel, taxes,         per farm            1,000        1,000 - 5,400
contingencies)
1/ Hand clearing.                           9/  Includes small number of imported
2/ Hand wcodiig.                              bulls.
4 4 barbed wires, live and wooden parts.lo/ Includes. small number of imported
1/ Unit per farm based on cost of              heifers.
standard yard at 15,000 sucres.       11/  1 Foreman thrbughout.
7   Plunge dip or spray race.             12/  2 men to year 5, 2½ men from year
&/ Water supply and tick control.               6 onwards.
7/ Mainly dams, excavated water holes      L/  CostsAhectare remain constant due to
and tanks.                                 better grassland management, and
8/ 65 HI.P. tractor, trailer and                some use of mechanical slashing.
rotary slasher.                       14/ Increase represents better tick and
endoparasite control, vaccination,
etc.
15/  Increased attention to major and trace elements,
notably phosphorus,
16/ Increases due to increased,capitalization.
April 24, 1967



ECUADOR LIVETOCK 10AN
DEVELOPMENT OF A TMICA  FARM
Befr e
Develop-       1         2          3                      5                          7       8          9           10         1          12
-merit                                                                      YFA1M
O. PRICE AND WEIGHT ASSUMPTIONS FOR
CAI   T0    THE VAUE OF CATLE
.£1 Bulls
Live weight (kgm)                            -         -      425        450         475        475         500        5oo         525        525        525         525        525
Price per kgm. (Sucres)                      _         _        5.20       5.40        5.40       5.6o        5.60       5.80        5.80       6.oo        6.19       6.30       6.4o
Steers
Live weight per head (kgmi)             375        375        375        400         425        45o         475        500        525         525        525         525        525
Price per kga. (Sucres)                   5.20-      5.20       5.20       5.40        5.4O       5.60        5.60       5.80       5.80        6.oo       6.19        6.19       6.40
co Csws
Live weight per hea,d (kgn)             312.5      312.5      312.5      325         337.5      350         350        350        375         ;75        375         375        375
Price per kgp. (Sucres)                   4.60       4.60       4.6o       4.u30       L. 80      5.00        5.00       5.20       5.20        5.40       5.50        5.60       5.70
Cull Heifere
iAve weight per head (kgm)              300        300        300        310         310        330         330        350         350        360        360         360        360
Price per kgm. (Sucres)                   5.00       5.00       5.66       5.66        5.80       6.oo        6.oo       6.0o        6.oo       6.11       6.18        6.25       6.32



ANNEX 5
(Adjusted)
ECUADOR
LB TOCK DEVELOPMENT PRDJECT
PROJECTED CASH FLOW OF CENTRAL BANK
YEAR                       1           2         3         4            5         6       7-18
(US$ TO3O)
Cash Inflow
IBRD Loan for Farm Loans made                                        89oa/
by Participating Banks
Technical services and
Materials V/                          17        38        12          8
Techr-eal services of Project
Director 2/                           24        20        20         21
Repayment by Participating
Banks 3/                                                            225
Total                                  540                          1,144
fgash Outflow
Participating Banks for Farm
Loans                                                               890a/         -         -         -
Participating Banks for Tech--.
nical services and Mater-als          17        38        12          8           -         -         _
Project Director for Salary
and Transport                         24        20        20         21           -         -         -
Project Director for Local
Costs                                  2         2         2          3           -         -         -
tB)RD Comndtment Charge (3/8%) 4/      14                              2           -         -         _
IBRD Loan Payments (6% interest)                 -                    212/        - 
Total                                 556                           1,136                   -
Balance                              - 16                             + 8                             +3 5/
Cumulative                           - 16                             -18                            +43 5/
J Vehicles and equipment for participating banks and seed multiplication scheme.
2/ Salary, international travel and vehicle.
' Interest onl,y during the first six years.   Interest component of 6.5% includes 6% on IERD loan and
0.5% surcharge by the Central Bank.
4/ On the undisbursed balance.
Z   Since exact annuities would be $477,,108 on $4.0 million IBRD loan and $479,854 on $3.915 million
repayments from Participating Banks, the difference of $2,746 per annum would realize a net gain
of about $33,000 to the Central Bank during the 12 year period of principal amortization, or a
total gross profit of approximately $43,000 for the full 18 year term of IERD loan.
a/ Because of rounding, this figure canno i be exactly computed from the Workshop information given.
Note that the fourth year figure of US$890,000 for farm loans has been increased by US$1,000 so
that total disbursements would equal the total IERD loan.



wCmAD;r L        D1ZK DZVEL0PMPY? PF0JEC7
PROJFnT09) CaSH FLCII OF PA TICPATflO SAYSE
('0OO Sucres)
IEaRS
1         2           1           .          S          6         7          8          9          10         12         12         13         1.,        15          16         -7          15
Coa Ihfl
1. IBHD aRzds
(a) tagn- to fanoers                                                    16,J2           - C                              -
{b) Tc bnlda2t:.12. 2  1,'                306       *56         21         17           _          _          _          _           _          _          _          _          _          _          _          _          _           _
(o)TotallflD PlAd (7b                    - b                            15,9            _          _          _          _
2. Parti ipating Banks 'optr_buticn
(d) Loan3 to f8reers                                                     5,33L
(e) Techn'rel   Serrices                        l,h3, 9        76
(f) Total P.S. S.         Id :   .'                                       , e)          - ','
(g) Repan.,t of ?rLn.   Re Ba:pient, 2/     -                     -          ....,7.2 '   _10,752 c/
(b) itare-t paid 7ov    ec'e(17%)                     9,1l9                      910 7a/        7     /   __7M a/                                        538
(1) ToRe-tl  : *ipt a .                             -          -        30,603          _                                                            11,290          _    _     _    _ _
C,abh fOtfios
(J) LoaWe  to 'arners ' o d'                                            21,336                                                                             -
(k) Technical Ser,ie. 1'                                              854 1           '.09       1          1.3     4    00       h1.0    h   OO    LOX                   h        O    O hX h . O   1o,       100   h    L._O
(1d) tn.  (; t 3   *                                 520 _     -         3,5r       1,B26 a!   1,721 a/               1,337 ./     76B        3R9        12)          _               -          -           -          -          -
(S) St:,,nl o  tk *   a 1)-                                             2,0      9                                                                    508                    1.0        LX         1.00       boo 1.0     3
(n)   Aeet .7ft Lto        c                                                             '.E, _   _                           _,t37                                  _        ,t637     CAR         ,637      d,637      6 637
()Interest Ps-t te :..    .C5n,S68
.P) T1.2a Pae.                                                          28,1.0                                                                         .,169                 9,37       5,137      9.037      5,037      5,C37       :L2
(q) BaL                   c    ncr before F.c. PSec- . (- P)             2,463                  2                                                                                                     ; !  ')  (0,37 ) * C,037)  (7 ^37()  ( ,-AO
/r P B. rc..                          - -                   - _                                                                              2,685
, 75e3       _ 7        ,037)  (;,o.7   2  5,0 37)    0,037)       ,-3')
Ce) Ba3aoo   -d roaii                                                  2,1.6        L25,932                                                                                 ,063     2,,65o      6, 309     3, 931     5.22
iu) Balanoe C. * tI                                 -                    2 67-                                                                         1.L389   !           (2'L ).'0)  (L,3761  (',728)     (5,106)     S i515       "1
Ce) f,n,alat1.,e _____                                       _____       5 33C-                                                                       66,0G4      5- 237               53,861    L0,133      LL,027     38,512    33,551
1/ Particlpatih*-2--'  ': 7.:Anre the -Mt cf tchni..1 aervio.., except for the Pro.ect Direotor  esalay and apemnes, and for calc.latioo p.M-co.e, the -oet of the Seed Hltipitcatio. Schoem.
2/ Awrti.ation ,obedtle based or 13.q.,r loEa with 4_-yaar grac. period. loeos Med. tn 2nd year y ,nld Mot-r. tIn  1th year.
/ Participating Bnks' co, ee,,-_'ted at 2% of outetaxding balance of far, le-M.
/ Re-ower7 of Pc.rti:'patt-, 3alks contribution to the PonJect for faro  aeA.
5/ It is -aa.ed th.                --,, s. r- o'.lated in presiOas ycar will be med for additional lendirg to 1ireotook farsers at a nMt titerast rate of 8%. The gross rate w.ould be 10%, allomtog 2% for dminisLrati,e coot.
a/ Becocie af romdiog, t   cg-ap1nail error mO the original tebLel, and siiolar discrepanoies, thes. fi-oras oannot be cal-alated fro. the totforotion sopplied J. this Workshop.



ECUADOR: LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
PROJECT COMMISSION
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
NATIONAL PLANNING BOARD
r                       CENTRAL BANK
NDB, COFIEC AND OTHER
l                        PARTICIPATING BANKS                                 I
COASTAL CATTLEMEN'S ASSOCIATION
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT BANK                   PRJC     DIRECTO                            COFIEC 
(NDB)P                                     PROJECT DiRECTOR              (AND- OTHER PARTICIPATING BANKS)
I                                                                            IE
I                               TECHNICAL STAFF- 
L _ _ __ _ _  _ _ _ I CHIEF                      _ 
TECHNICIAN         I C:IIEF
3-5 TECHNICIANS     TECHNICIAN
PARTICIPATING FARMERS
z
z
m
januar,.'967                                                                     (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3R; i9R0 -3262 






A1NN53X 3
Page 1.
DUTIES, RESPONSIBILITIES ANID AUTHORITIES
OF THE PROJECT DIRECTOR
The Project Director, who shall be responsible to the Project
Commission, will have the technical responsibility for implementation and
execution of the Livestock Development Project and shall have the following
specific duties and powers:
(a)  advising the Project Commission on major policy decisions
in respect of the Project;
(b)  executing the Project in accordance with policies and
procedures agreed to by the Project Commission;
(c) cooperating with the management of Participating Banks
towards accomplishing the Project objectives;
(d) approving secondment of such staff to his office as :ae
considers necessary to carry out Project activities;
(e) training of Project staff as may be necessary for
fulfillmer.t of Project objectives;
(f) approving or disapproving of all farm development
plans prepared and appraised under the Lending
Program;
(g)  following-up, supervising and giving technical
assistance as he may deem necessary to ensure
success of each farm development plan financed
under the Project;
(h)  advising Participating Banks through the Project
Commission to suspend and, where appropriate,
premature loans under the Lending Program when-
ever he finds that the farm development plan for
which the particular loan has been granted is
not being carried out in accordance with the
terms of the respective loan agreement. He
shall inform the Participating Bank through
the Project Commission if and when the situation
has been satisfactorily rectified;
(i) establishing and maintaining farm records for
sample farms as needed for Project evaluation;



ANDEvX 8
Page 2
(j) making recommendations to the proper authorities in
Participating Banks with respect to:
(i) remmmeration for Project staff and other
compensation necessary to attract the most
qualified personnel available;
(ii) the recruitment, suspension or removal of
Project staff;
(iii)  the annual budget for the Project staff;
(k)  preparing quarterly and annual progress reports for
submission to the Project Commission for transmittal
to the Bank;
(1)  advising the Project Commission and other agencies
concerned on the organization and implementation
of a survey of the Livestock industry to be the
basis for the preparation of a possible second
stage of development; and
(m)  advising the Project Commission and other agencies
concerned on the preparation and execution of a
pasture seed multiplication program for beef cattle
development and research related thereto.
April 2h, 1967



ANNE, Y 9
( A:U ect)
ECUADOR
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPifENTA PdOJECT
INTEWAL RATE OF ETURN iCALCULATION
('000 Sucres)
Cash Flow
Net Additional Benefits      Less
Project   Total Tnvestment Costs         (= Cash Flow)        Investment
Year                                                            Costs



