Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 4764 IN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Lucknow-Muzaffarpur National Highway Project) 
 
between 
 
INDIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Dated  November 18, 2005 
 
Page  2
-2-
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 4764 IN 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated November 18, 2005, between INDIA, acting by its 
President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
(B) 
 
The Project will be carried out by NATIONAL HIGHWAYS 
AUTHORITY OF INDIA (NHAI) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the Loan provided for in Article II of 
this Agreement (the Loan) available to NHAI, as set forth in this Agreement;  
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and NHAI (the 
Project Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended 
through May 1, 2004 (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms used in this Agreement or 
the Project Agreement have the following meanings: 
a) 
“EA” means NHAI’S Environmental Assessment, dated July/August 
2004, providing an overall assessment of environmental issues arising under the Project, 
including an evaluation of the Project’s environmental risks and impacts, as well as 
potential impacts on cultural property and the health of forests, analysis of possible 
alternatives, and identification of potential management and mitigation measures; 
Page  4
-2-
b) 
“East-West Corridor” means the Borrower’s highway corridor extending 
from the State of Assam to the State of Gujarat, including the Lucknow-Muzaffarpur 
National Highway; 
c) 
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) through (3) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
d) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
e) 
“EMP” means an environmental management plan issued pursuant to the 
EA, setting forth the environmental, and cultural property and forests-related actions, 
measures and policies applicable to any one or more civil works contract packages 
awarded under the Project, and designed to maximize the benefits and manage the actual 
and potential adverse impacts arising thereunder; 
f) 
 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement; 
g) 
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the Borrower’s fiscal year, beginning on  
April 1 of any calendar year and ending on March 31 of the following calendar year; 
h) 
“Golden Quadrilateral” means the national highway corridor linking the 
Borrower’s cosmopolitan centers of Delhi, Kolkata, Chennai and Mumbai; 
i) 
“Gorakhpur Bypass” means a 30-kilometer highway to be constructed on 
new alignment along the Lucknow-Muzaffarpur National Highway, and designed to 
serve as a bypass around the city of Gorakhpur; 
j) 
“HIV/AIDS” means Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) 
resulting from infection with the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV); 
k) 
“Lucknow-Muzaffarpur National Highway” means a 513-kilometer 
stretch of national highway between Lucknow and Muzaffarpur, including the Gorakhpur 
Bypass; 
l) 
“MORTH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Road Transport and 
Highways, or any successor thereto; 
m) 
 “NGO” means non-governmental organization; 
n) 
“NHAI” means the National Highways Authority of India, constituted 
and existing under the Borrower’s National Highways Authority of India Act 1988, and 
any successor thereto; 
Page  5
-3-
o) 
“NHDP” means the Borrower’s National Highway Development 
Program of upgrading its core national highway network, including the Golden 
Quadrilateral, the North-South Corridor and the East-West Corridor; 
p) 
“North-South Corridor” means the highway corridor running from the 
State of Kashmir in the north to the State of Tamil Nadu in the south of India; 
q) 
 
“Procurement Plan” means NHAI’s procurement plan, dated 
 
November 24, 2004, covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding the eighteen (18) 
month periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
r) 
 “Project Affected Person” or “PAP” means any person who owns or 
occupies land, property or other assets or structures which are, or will be, adversely 
affected by the Lucknow-Muzaffarpur National Highway Project, or whose livelihood, 
business, trade or other occupation is, or will be, adversely affected as a result thereof, 
and who is declared accordingly eligible for compensation and other assistance under the 
RAP; 
s) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and NHAI 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
t) 
“Project Implementation Unit” or “PIU” means a Project Implementation 
Unit referred to in paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; 
u) 
“Project State” means either or both of the Borrower’s States of Uttar 
Pradesh and Bihar; 
v) 
“R&R” means resettlement and rehabilitation of PAPs; 
w) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
x) 
“Resettlement Action Plan” or “RAP” means a Resettlement Action Plan 
consistent with the R&R Framework, issued by NHAI, and setting forth details of actual 
entitlements available to PAPs, both titleholders and non-titleholders, under one or more 
civil works contract packages under the Project as defined hereinafter in Schedule 2 and 
under the Gorakhpur Bypass, including provisions for resettlement and rehabilitation, 
relocation of common property resources and enhancement of existing structures, as the 
case may be; 
y) 
“R&R Framework” means the R&R Entitlement Framework, dated 
July/August 2004, issued by NHAI, and setting forth details of a framework of actions, 
Page  6
-4-
measures and policies designed to avoid or minimize any adverse impacts or hardship to 
PAPs as a result of the Lucknow-Muzaffarpur National Highway Project or, if such 
adverse impacts or hardship cannot be avoided altogether, provide such PAPs with 
alternative opportunities to enhance or restore their livelihoods;  
z) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and 
aa) 
“State” means a State of the Borrower, or any successor thereto. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to six hundred 
and twenty million Dollars ($620,000,000). 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, 
works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2010, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
 (b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
Page  7
-5-
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 
 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement. 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
Interbank Offered Rate for six-month deposits in dollars for 
value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as 
a
percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 
(A) three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on March 15
th
 and September 15
th
 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Page  8
-6-
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement, shall cause NHAI to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of NHAI therein set forth, shall 
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services 
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable NHAI to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such performance. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to NHAI in 
accordance with the Borrower’s standard arrangements for developmental assistance to 
central ministries and agencies. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Project 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project shall be carried 
out by NHAI pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Loan Account were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account was made; and 
Page  9
-7-
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records. 
 (b) 
The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such Fiscal Year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
NHAI shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement; and 
(b) 
as a result of events that have occurred after the date of this Agreement, 
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that NHAI 
will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph (a) 
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions, namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
NHAI, and is legally binding upon NHAI in accordance with its terms. 
Page  10
-8-
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by NHAI, and is legally binding upon NHAI in accordance with its 
terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for 
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower: 
 
Secretary to the Government of India 
 
Department of Economic Affairs 
 
Ministry of Finance  
 
New Delhi, India 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
ECOFAIRS 953-31-66175 
FINE 
IN 
91-11-2309-2511 
 New 
Delhi 
91-11-2309-2477 
 
91-11-2309-3133 
 
Page  11
-9-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for  
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 248423 
(MCI) 
or 
202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in New Delhi, India,
 
as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INDIA 
 
By 
  /s/ 
Madhusudan 
Prasad 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
  /s/ 
Michael 
F. 
Carter 
Country Director, India 
 
Page  12
-10-
SCHEDULE 1 
Part A
:
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the  
% of 
 Loan 
Allocated Expenditures 
 Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) Civil 
works 
567,420,000 
80% 
 
(2) (a) 
Consultants’ services 
22,600,000 
90% 
 
(b)
 
NGO-provided services  
1,130,000 
100% 
 
and training
 
(3) 
R&R assistance packages 
25,750,000 
100% 
 
(4) 
Fee 
3,100,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
__________ 
 
TOTAL 620,000,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “NGO-provided services” means services provided by NGOs, 
training providers and other educational and research institutions, which are tax exempt 
under the laws of the Borrower; and 
(b) 
the term “R&R assistance packages” means packages of assistance 
provided under part 3(b) of the Project, and consisting of goods, works, services, and 
training (excluding cash compensation and other resettlement assistance paid in cash) 
provided in accordance with the RAP. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding $62,000,000 may be made 
in respect of Categories (1), (2) & (3) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Part on account 
of payments made for expenditures before that date but after May 31, 2004. 
Page  13
-11-
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) works under contracts costing 
less than $3,000,000 each; (ii) goods under contracts costing less than $500,000 
equivalent each; (iii) consultants’ services under contracts costing less than $200,000 
equivalent each, in the case of consulting firms, and $50,000 equivalent each, in the case 
of individual consultants; (iv) R&R assistance packages; and (v) training, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, such reports to include the Financial Monitoring Report and any other information 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements).  In the 
case of the first such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made 
from the Loan Account, the Borrower shall submit, or shall cause NHAI to submit, to the 
Bank only a statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project 
for the six-month period following the date of such request. 
Part B
:
Special Account
1. 
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the 
Reserve Bank of India, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if the Bank determines at any time that it is not satisfied that the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for 
Report-based Disbursements; 
Page  14
-12-
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
(c) 
if the Borrower or NHAI shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within 
the period of time specified in Sections 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement and 4.01 (b) (ii) of 
the Project Agreement, respectively, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to 
the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records and accounts 
for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with 
respect to which withdrawals were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may be. 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
 
Page  15
-13-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not Report-based Disbursements 
 
For the purposes of this Annex: 
1. 
The term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of $75,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts that in the aggregate do not exceed the said Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the said Special Account such amount 
as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. 
On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit 
into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under 
one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Special Account’s 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  16
-14-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and  
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.5 
of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in 
order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such reports. 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as 
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  17
-15-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to enable road users to benefit from an improved 
journey between Lucknow and Muzaffarpur. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
1. 
Upgrading of a 483-kilometer section of the Lucknow-Muzaffarpur National 
Highway (other than the Gorakhpur Bypass), to a 4-lane standard, including bridges, 
flyovers, underpasses, bus and truck bays, road-over-bridges, service roads, toll-booths 
and ancillary construction-related environmental management measures, as necessary, 
through the provision of civil works. 
2. 
Supervision of civil works through the provision of consultants’ services. 
3. 
Carrying out of a program of R&R and environmental and social enhancement 
activities, including:  
(a) 
land and other asset acquisition and utility relocation; 
(b) 
provision of R&R assistance to PAPs under the RAP; 
(c) 
provision of technical advisory services to NHAI to support training, and 
implementation and monitoring of R&R activities; and 
(d) 
implementation of environmental enhancements and tree plantation 
activities not included as part of the civil works contracts carried out 
under part 1 of the Project. 
4. 
Carrying out of road safety and HIV/AIDS awareness campaigns for the benefit 
of those using, living or working in the vicinity of the East-West Corridor during the 
implementation of the Project. 
5. 
Provision of technical advisory services for data collection to support 
improvements to NHAI’s management information system. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2009. 
 
Page  18
-16-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)
September 15, 2010 
17,175,000 
March 15, 2011 
17,390,000 
September 15, 2011 
17,605,000 
March 15, 2012 
17,825,000 
September 15, 2012 
18,045,000 
March 15, 2013 
18,270,000 
September 15, 2013 
18,495,000 
March 15, 2014 
18,730,000 
September 15, 2014 
18,960,000 
March 15, 2015 
19,195,000 
September 15, 2015 
19,435,000 
March 15, 2016 
19,680,000 
September 15, 2016 
19,925,000 
March 15, 2017 
20,170,000 
September 15, 2017 
20,420,000 
March 15, 2018 
20,675,000 
September 15, 2018 
20,935,000 
March 15, 2019 
21,195,000 
September 15, 2019 
21,460,000 
March 15, 2020 
21,725,000 
September 15, 2020 
21,995,000 
March 15, 2021 
22,270,000 
September 15, 2021 
22,545,000 
March 15, 2022 
22,825,000 
September 15, 2022 
23,110,000 
March 15, 2023 
23,400,000 
September 15, 2023 
23,690,000 
March 15, 2024 
23,985,000 
September 15, 2024 
24,285,000 
March 15, 2025 
24,585,000 
 
