Report No. PID10155
Project Name                     Burkina Faso-Poverty Reduction Support...
Credit (PRSC) I
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Macroeconomics
Project ID                       BFPE72106
Borrower                         Burkina Faso
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Economy and Finance
Date PID Prepared                March 29, 2001
Appraisal Date                   April-May 2001
Projected Board Date             June 2001
I.      Background
1.      Burkina Faso has established over the past nine years a relatively
positive track record associated with good macroeconomic performance. Since
1991, the country has been implementing a wide range of economic reforms under
a series of stabilization and structural adjustment programs supported by the
Bank, the IMF and other donors. Burkina Faso's growth record over the past ten
years has been uneven. After declining during the first half of the 1990s,
real GDP picked up since 1994 and averaged 5.5 percent annually, despite a
significant deterioration in the terms of trade over the period. The
relatively strong growth performance is attributable to the competitive gains
following the 1994 CFA franc devaluation, to the large public investment
program, and to the financial and structural policies aimed at consolidating
the market orientation of the economy and maintaining macroeconomic stability.
2.      Economic growth decelerated in 2000 on account of adverse weather
conditions leading to a lower cotton crop, exogenous shocks, including the
increase in oil prices and the appreciation of the US dollar, and the
deterioration of the political situation in C¶te d'Ivoire (where 3 million
BurkinabO reside) that significantly reduced workers' remittances. The latter
two adverse external shocks are estimated at around 2.5 percent of GDP. Real
GDP growth for 2000 is now estimated to reach 4 percent against 5.7 on average
during 1995-99.
3.      Burkina Faso has made significant headway in its transition to a market-
oriented economy, including in the areas of trade, fiscal and public
enterprise reforms as well as in the areas of social policy and institutional
development. The implementation of the first two phases of the privatization
program, launched respectively in 1991 and 1994, has been completed, involving
41 companies, which have been either privatized or liquidated. At the same
time, significant progress has been made in the third phase of the program,
which focuses on public utilities and the cotton sector.
II.     PRSC I Objectives and Description
4.      The budget program supported by this PRSC is a direct reflection of the
priorities in the Government's PRSP, which was discussed by the Board in June
2000 ; the credit was identified in the CAS approved in November 2000. The
reform program underpinning the credit reflects work by the Bank over the past



several years, including most recently for the SAC approved in December 1999.
This work by the Bank has focused on key social sector programs (including the
Government's new 10-year Health Program), as well as improved budget and
financial management by the Government in general. Thus, the conditions for
this PRSC, and those proposed for subsequent PRSCs, build on and extend the
accomplishments of the past.
5.      Consistent with the CAS, the proposed credit will help finance the
Government's expenditure program, which has a significant focus on activities
that aim to reduce poverty. The expenditure program for 2001 is especially
important, as it seeks, in part, to make up for shortfalls experienced in 2000
owing to insufficient financial resources. In addition, the 2001 budget
provides financing to reduce domestic arrears and improve Government position
with the banking system, in conformity with PRGF program targets. It is
important to note that, even though this credit would be delivered in the
middle of the Government's fiscal year, its financing was already implicitly
included in the voted budget.
6.      The program underpinning the PRSC I aims to achieve better outcomes in
the management of public resources by: (i) strengthening program budgets
linking allocations to specific sector objectives, strategies, and action
plans; (ii) improving service delivery in selected line ministries; (iii)
establishing a fiduciary framework promoting accountability and transparency
in the use of public funds, including external assistance; and (iv)
strengthening the Government's capacity to track and manage public expenditure
efficiently.
III.    Financing
7.      The proposed amount of IDA financing is US$40 million equivalent, which
will be released at credit effectiveness. This amount is considered necessary
to finance the 2001 gap and to support the implementation of the Government's
spending program.
IV.     Environmental Aspects
8.       The proposed credit does not have direct environmental impact.
Discussions about the application of Bank Safeguards in PRSCs in general are
underway as part of the formulation of PRSC guidance. For this operation, the
Africa Safeguard Policy Enhancement (ASPEN) team has recommended that the Task
Team prepare an Integrated Safeguard Data Sheet (ISDS) to accompany the PID.
The ISDS will be reviewed in collaboration with the working group on PRSCs and
Safeguards and a recommendation on the applicability of safeguards to PRSC I
will be made.
V.      Program Objective Categories (POC)
9.      The operation falls under the poverty reduction POC.
VI.     Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW,
Washington DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
-2-



Fax: (202) 522-1500
Task Team Leader
Celestin Monga,
Macroeconomics Group,
AFTM4
(202) 473-5125,
Room J-8147
Fax: 202-473-5454,
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending April 6, 2001.
- 3 -



