Document of
The World Bank
Report No. P7477-BUR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 36 MILLION
(US$45 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO BURKINA FASO
July 26, 2001
Macroeconomics IV
Africa Region



GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR: January 1-December 31
Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = CFA Franc
US$1=CFAF 776.7 (July 6, 2001)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AAA                Analytical and Advisory Activities
AfDB               African Development Bank
ARTEL              Agence de Regulation des Telcommunications [Telecommunications Sector Regulatory Authority]
CAMEG              Centre d'Achat des Medicaments Essentiels Generiques (National Drug Company)
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CET                Common Extemal Tariff
CFAA               Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CMA                Advanced Medical Centre (Centre Hospitalier Regional)
COGES              Powers of Local Management Committees
CPAR               Country Procurement Assessment Report
CSPS               Centre de Sante et Promotion Sociale
DAAF               Direction des Affaires Administratives et Financiares
DEP                Direction des Etudes et de la Planification
DEPDA              Provincial Directorates
DHS                Demographic of Health Survey
DREDA              Regional Directorates
EC                 European Commission
EMRSO              Economic Management Reform Support Operation
FODECOM            Fonds de Demarrage des Communes
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
GNP                Gross National Product
HIPC               Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IDA                Intemational Development Association
IASC               Intemational Accounting Standards Committee
IFAC               Intemational Federation of Accountants
IFC                Intemational Finance Corporation
IMF                Intemational Monetary Fund
INTOSAI            Intemational Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions
LDP                Letter of Development Policy
MEBA               Ministry of Basic Education
MEF                Ministry of Economy and Finance
MTEF               Medium-Term Expenditure Framework
NGO                Non Govemmental Organization
OECD               Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
OHADA              Organization for the Harmonization of Business Law in Africa
ONATEL             Office National des Telecommunications [national telecommunicatons company]
PER                Public Expenditure Review
PID                Public Institutional Development
PNDS               Plan National de Diveloppement Sanitaire
PRGB               Plan de Renforcement de la Gestion Budgetaire [national plan to strengthen budget management]
PRGF               Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
PRSC               Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSP               Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
SAC                Structural Adjustment Credit
SAGEDECOM          Service d'Appui A la Gestion et au Developpement des Communes
SECAL              Sectoral Adjustment Loan
SGBB               Societe Generale de Banque du Burkina Faso
SDR                Special Drawing Rights
SONABEL            Societe Nationale d'Electricite du Burkina Faso [national electric power company]
SONABHY            Societe Nationale Burkinabe dHydrocarbures [national petroleum company]
SPA                Strategic Partnership with Africa
SYGASPE            Systeme de Gestion des Agents et du Personnel de I 'Etat [budget payroll management system]
TTC                Teacher Training College
UNDP               United Nations Development Programme
WAEMU              West African Economic and Monetary Union
Vice-President               Callisto Madavo
Country Director             David Craig, Miguel Saponara (Acting)
Sector Manager               Charles Humphreys
Task Team Leader             Celestin Monga



BURKINA FASO
POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.   INTRODUCTION ............................................ 1
II.    RECENT ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE ............................................                            2
A.  COUNTRY CONTEXT ...................................................... 2
B.  MACROECONOMIC AND STRUCTURAL REFORMS ..............                  ........................................ 2
C. MEDIUM-TERM PROSPECTS AND FINANCING REQuIREMENTS .......... . 4
111. BURKINA FASO'S POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY.                                                            5
A. POVERTY PROFILE, SOCIAL INDICATORS, AND MAIN PRSP OBJECTIVES.                                         5
B. PROGRESS ON KEY REFORMS AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PRSP                               .7
C. PUBLIC SECTOR REFORM, GOVERNANCE, AND POVERTY REDUCTION.                                              9
IV. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND COLLABORATION WITH OTHER DONORS .16
A. CAS OBJECIVES .16
B. LESSONS FROM PAST ADJUSTMENT OPERATIONS .21
C. COLLABORATION WITH OTHER DONORS .22
V. THE PROPOSED CREDIT (PRSC ) .22
A. RATIONALE FOR AND OBJECTIVES OF PRSC I .22
B. DESIGN AND SEQUENCING .23
C. KEY ELEMENTS OF THE PRSC PROGRAM AND LINKS WITH THE PRSP AGENDA .24
D.  SPECIFIC ACTIONS ASSOCIATED WITH PRSC I ............................................................  34
E. PROGRESS BENCHMARKS AND TRIGGERs FOR PRSC II AND III .36
E. MONITORING OF PROGRAM OUTCOMES AND PROGRESS BENCHMARKS .38
F. CREDIT ADMINISTRATION .40
G. BENEFITS AND RISKS .42
VI. RECOMMENDATION .43
Table 1: Selected Economic Indicators ....................................................................,.,.,,   3
Table 2: Welfare Distribution by Economic Region (in perent).                                              6
Table 3: Key Outcomes Envisaged by End of Current PRSC Program (2003) .40
The World Bank team for this operation was led by Cdlestin Monga and included: Boubker Abisourour, Bepio B. Bado, Siaka
Bakayoko, Elisabeth Bambara, Siaka Coulibaly, Pascale Dubois, Hippolyte Fofack, Jane Hopkins, Remi Kini, Catherine Laurent,
Josiane Luchmun, Ibrahim Magazi, Ann Martinov, Francois Nankobogo, Makha Ndao, Ibrahim Nebie, Emmanuel Nikiema, Miriam
Schneidman, Richard Senou, Antoine Simonpietri, Agnes Soucat, Francoise Perrot, Eustache Ouayoro, and Denise Vaillancourt.
Advisors include Doug Addison, Pierre Demangel, Charles Humphreys, Jean Mazurelle and Sudhir Shetty. Cooperation of the IMF
team led by Pierre van den Boogaerde and AfDB team led by Theophile Guezodje is gratefully acknowledged.



Annex 1: Public Sector Financial Management and Governance:
The Medium-Term Reform Program ........................................................, , . . 44
Annex 2: Linkages between the PRSP, MTEF, CAS, and PRSC .............................................   ,  59
Annex 3: Social Development Indicators, 1999-2000 ..............................................      60
Annex 4: Fiscal Impact of HIPC Resources, 2000-2003                                                   61
Annex 5: Implementing the PRSP and the HIPC Initiative Reform Program          .      .62
Annex 6: Letter of Development Policy .................................................................  68
Box 1: The Budgetary Expenditure Management Strengthening Plan (PRGB)                    .. 73
Box 2: Reforming Public Procurement Procedures... 76
Box 3: Accountability Requirements: The CFAA .77
Box 4: "Ownership" of the PRSP ...............................................................  79
Annex 7: Policy Matrix .94
Annex 8: Country at a Glance and Key Economic Indicators .10..........................................    10l
Annex 9: Selected Recent Analytical Work on Burkina Faso ..................................... .....   ,   107
Figure 1: Growth, Investment, and Trade.                                                               2
Figure 2: The PRSC Program and AAA Underpinnings .20
Box 1: Decentralization in Burkina Faso .15
Box 2: Assessing the Tracking of Poverty-Related Spending in Burkina Faso .46
Box 3: The Government's Report on Budget Management Issues .58



BURKINA FASO
POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
Credit and Program Summary
Borrower:            Burkina Faso
Amount:              SDR 36 million (US$ 45 million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard IDA terms; 40-year maturity with 10-year grace period.
Description:          The proposed credit of SDR 36 million (US$45 million equivalent) is a
Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) designed to support the
implementation of Burkina Faso's poverty reduction strategy as set out
in the June 2000 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). The reform
program focuses on improving basic service delivery. This one-tranche
operation would be the first of a planned series of three PRSCs with a
total amount of US$120 million equivalent, prepared annually within a
rolling, three-year horizon. The credit will provide financial support to
allow the Government to carry out its poverty reduction expenditure
program expeditiously and fully.
Benefits:              By focusing on economy-wide policy and institutional issues like
broad public sector reformn, the proposed PRSC is expected to help
implement the poverty reduction program in two ways. Firstly, in the
short run, the credit will help maintain macroeconomic stability and
create the conditions for accelerating growth by providing quick-
disbursing assistance in the context of slow growth and lower than
expected Government revenues. Secondly, the program associated with
the credit will help poverty reduction by improving the targeting and
effectiveness of public expenditure to the poor and actually channeling
public funds to more accountable local spending agencies. By
improving the availability and efficient use of public resources for
basic public services, and by stressing delegation, accountability and
transparency in budget management, the reform program associated
with this credit should improve access to and the quality of these
services. The program underpinning the credit will help the poor by
strengthening the institutional framework and national capacity in
Burkina Faso to manage public resources, including external
assistance. Line ministries and local-level spending agencies are
expected to become more proactive in budget formulation and
execution, a step that will progressively create the network,
mechanisms, and skills needed for more effective accountability for
budget management nationwide.
Risks:                 The main risks to this credit and the reform program that it supports
come from three sources: vested interests, fiduciary and institutional.
First, the reformns are being implemented in a sensitive and evolving
country context. Vested interests of individual constituencies and
regions may seek to exert influence on the composition and execution
of the budget which may adversely affect the implementation of the



program. Second, as spelled out in the CPAR and in the Government's
PRGB, despite the Government's strong continued efforts to strengthen
financial management and procurement systems, some fiduciary risks
with regard to the use of public funds remain. Corruption could lead to
economic losses in the form of lower tax revenues and
misappropriation of public resources. Finally, continued weaknesses in
implementation capacity, particularly in line ministries may hamper
improvements in service delivery that are intended under the credit.
These risks are mitigated to a substantial extent by the design and
content of the credit and continued support from the Bank and other
external partners for the overall program. All specific reform measures
supported by this credit have already been taken as prior actions before
Board presentation. Building on these measures, the multi-year
program of budget reforms envisaged under the PRSCs will be based
on steady progress against monitorable performance benchmarks and
completion of critical up-front actions by the Government before Board
approval of each of the subsequent credits. To reduce fiduciary risks,
implementation of the Government's plan to curb corruption and
address deficiencies in the fiduciary framework is central to the reformn
program supported by this and subsequent PRSCs. Support for these
efforts is also provided through other Bank lending, such as the
Community-based Rural Development project and through non-lending
services, such as the completion of the CFAA. Continued policy
dialogue, technical assistance, advisory services and analytical work
are part of the Bank's support to address the risk posed by inadequate
implementation capacity. In addition, two Bank lending operations
aimed at building capacity (Public sector management, Basic
Education) are currently being prepared to accompany the series of
PRSCs. Other donors (AfDB, EC, France) are also directly supporting
efforts at capacity building in key ministries through their own
assistance programs.
Estimated
Disbursements:        SDR 36 million (US$45 million equivalent) disbursed upon credit
effectiveness (expected in August 2001).
ii



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
TO BURKINA FASO
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on the proposed
Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC I) to Burkina Faso for SDR 36 million, an amount
equivalent to US$45 million, on standard IDA terms'. The proposed credit is an integral part of the
Bank's strategy to support the implementation of Burkina Faso's Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper (PRSP). The proposed credit would be the first in a planned series of three PRSCs to
provide financial support to help the Government carry out its poverty reduction strategy.
Underpinning the proposed credit are public finance reforns that will result in greater efficiency in
the use of public funds, greater transparency and accountability in public sector management, as
well as more effective public service delivery, particularly to the poor. It is envisaged that over the
period 2002-03 there will be two subsequent single-tranche PRSCs with a total amount of US$120
million equivalent, prepared annually within a rolling three-year horizon. To the extent feasible
and practicable depending on country performance, these credits will be aligned with the budget
cycle to continue support of the implementation of the poverty reduction program. The measures
to be associated with successive credits in this series of PRSCs may be broadened to include
selected policy measures drawn from the PRSP agenda, to accelerate growth and improve service
delivery, in addition to a continuing focus on public finance management.
2.     The proposed credit builds on substantial analytical work carried out over the past few
years, including: public expenditure work; poverty profiles and poverty assessments; the report on
Competitiveness and Long-Term Sources of Growth in Burkina Faso; the technical notes on the
Ten-Year Education program and the Ten-Year Health Program; the report on Public Service
Delivery and Decentralization; the Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR), and the
ongoing Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA)2. In this context, it should also be
noted that a recent joint Bank-Fund Board paper on the tracking of public spending in HIPC
countries finds that Burkina Faso is one of only two countries among the 25 considered in which it
will be possible to track and report poverty-reducing spending satisfactorily with little upgrading
of public expenditure management systems (see Annex 1). The reform program associated with
this credit also builds on the Government's full PRSP which is the foundation for the Bank's recent
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)3.
3.     The PRSC will also provide financial assistance to help Burkina Faso meet external
financing gaps, which are of balance of payments and fiscal origins. Economic growth-estimated
at 2.2 percent in 2000, compared with 5.7 percent on average during 1995-99-decelerated in
' The CAS provided for two PRSCs of the amount of $60 million each. The amount of this credit was
adjusted to suit the budget cycle. The size of subsequent PRSCs would be based on financial needs and on
performance in managing the overall budget process more effectively, while assuring predictability of our
financial support. The overall envelope is consistent with the CAS lending progran.
2 A selected list of recent economic and sector work on Burkina Faso is presented in Annex 9.
3 See IDA/SecM2000-313, Burkina Faso: Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper and Joint World Bank-IMF
Staff Assessment of the PRSP (June 2000), and Burkina Faso: Country Assistance Strategy-Report 21285-
BUR (November 2000).



2000 because of adverse weather conditions (which resulted in a smaller cotton crop and lower
than expected cereal production); exogenous shocks (including the increase in oil prices and the
appreciation of the US dollar); and the deterioration of the political situation in C6te d'Ivoire
(where 3 million Burkinabe reside), a factor that significantly reduced workers' remittances.
H.  RECENT ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
A.      Country Context
4.     Burkina Faso is a poor landlocked country with a limited resource base, high vulnerability
to external shocks, and acute social needs. The rainfall is limited, averaging 350 mm in the north
and 1000 mm in the southwest. In the mid-1980s, the State became the dominant actor in the
economy, and was heavily involved in the productive sectors and generalized price and trade
regulations. During this period, the role of the State as a caretaker of the economy and provider of
social services became deeply ingrained in the population, its leadership, and the civil service. As
a result, while systemic political changes were initiated as early as 1988, the shift toward a more
selective role of the State and market-based policies started only in 1991 and has been gradual.
5.     Burkina Faso has enjoyed political stability since 1987 under the leadership of President
Blaise Compaore. The country moved steadily toward political pluralism and has now organized
several multi-party elections: presidential (1991 and 1998), parliamentary (1992 and 1997),
municipal (1995 and 2000).  Major socio-political changes are likeiy to coml. when the
decentralization and civil service reform laws adopted by Parliament in 1998 are fullv
implemented.
B.      Macroeconomic and Structural Reforms
6.    Stabilization. Over the past nine years Burkina Faso has established a relatively positive
track   record   associated   with   good
macroeconomic performance. Since 1991, the           Figure 1: Growth, Investment, and Trade
country has been implementing a wide range
of economic reforms under a series of
stabilization   and   structural  adjustment    40
programs supported by the Bank, the IMF, and                               /
other donors. Burkina Faso's growth record     _
over the past ten years has been uneven. After  , 2
declining during the first half of the 1990s,   10
real GDP growth picked up in 1994 and                         D
averaged  5.5 percent annually, despite  a       02
significant deterioration in the terms of trade  lo* 0   10,   
over the period. The relatively strong growth       K
performance is attributable to the competitive  -19  194  1995  19  1997  1998  999
gains  following  the  1994  CFA  franc             ___
devaluation, to the large public investment             gowh ee   m      OF1*Z  h 1
program, and to financial and structural
policies aimed at consolidating the market orientation of the economy and maintaining
macroeconomic stability. Inflation, as measured by the consumer price index, declined to -C.2
percent on average, on an annual basis, between 1997 and 2000, compared with 6 percent in 1996,
reflecting greater production and supply of cereals and other essential foodstuffs.
2



7.     Economic growth decelerated in 2000 because of adverse weather conditions (which
resulted in a smaller cotton crop); exogenous shocks (including the increase in oil prices and the
appreciation of the US dollar); and the deterioration of the political situation in COte d'Ivoire
(where 3 million Burkinabe reside), a factor that significantly reduced workers' remittances. The
latter two adverse external shocks are estimated at around 2.5 percent of GDP. Real GDP growth
for 2000 is estimated at 2.2 percent, compared with 5.7 percent on average during 1995-99. Taking
into account the decline in cotton exports and in workers' remittances, as well as the significant
decline in imports of investment goods, the current account deficit (excluding official transfers) is
estimated at 17.9 percent of GDP. Including transfers, the current account deficit is estimated at
14.4 percent of GDP. With the delay in the disbursement of program financing (due to diplomatic
tensions over Burkina Faso's alleged involvement in regional conflicts), official reserves have
declined. These developments resulted in mixed fiscal performance in 2000. Government revenue
is estimated at 12.8 percent of GDP in 2000 as against 14.4 percent of GDP originally
programmed. In the context of its structural budget deficit and lower than expected public revenue
in 2000-it is now estimated that implementation of the new CET actually cost Burkina Faso
roughly 1.5 percent of GDP in 2000-the Government took a number of short-term measures to
redress its fiscal stance: goods and services outlays and transfers were strictly limited for the last
three months of the year; and investment spending was kept well below the original program
because of the shortfall in foreign financing and a cut in non-priority domestically financed
investments. The expenditure program for 2001 is especially important, as it seeks in part to make
up for shortfalls experienced in 2000 owing to insufficient financial resources. The 2001 budget is
designed to regularize the Government's balance sheet-reducing domestic arrears and improving
its position with the banking system, in conformity with PRGF program targets. The proposed
credit would be important in achieving this, and in financing poverty reduction programs. It would
also fill the financial gap for 2001.
Table 1: Selected Economic Indicators
Actual    Estimates     Projections
1998  1999   2000      2001   2002  2003
Real GDP Growth                         6.2   6.2    2.2       6.3    5.9   6.0
GDP per capita                          3.4   3.4    -0.6      3.5    3.4   4.0
Population Growth                       2.8   2.8    2.8       2.8    2.8   2.8
Inflation (CPI)                         5.0  -1.1   -0.2       2.9    2.0   2.0
Gross Domestic Investment/GDP          29.6  27.2   27.9       25.9   24.1  23.6
Overall Budget DeficitVGDP, incl. Grants     -3.5   -4.2      -5.0   -3.1  -2.3
Export Volume Growth (%)               49.3  -12.6   -10.9    -13.4    20   5.6
Current Account Balance/GDP, incl. Transfers    -10.0  -12.7   -14.4    -13.2   -10.1  -8.7
Total Debt Service Ratio (in percent of exports)    16.6  23.0   30.6  27.8   23.8  21.0
8.     Burkina Faso reached its completion point under the original HIPC  Initiative and
eligibility under the enhanced HIPC Initiative in June 2000 (World Bank Board) and July 2000
(IMF Board), respectively. The country will reach its completion point under the enhanced
Initiative once it has it taken a number of steps designed to improve key policies in the education
and health sectors. Country authorities have outlined many of these measures in a Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), which was prepared in consultation with a broad cross-section
of local civil society and with the support of international partners.
9.     Structural Reforms. Burkina Faso has made significant headway in its transition to a
market-oriented economy, in the areas of trade, fiscal, and public enterprise reforms as well as in
the areas of social policy and institutional development. Burkina Faso significantly outperforms
comparable African countries on most performance indicators of structural reforms. With regard to
trade, the adoption of the West African Economic and Monetary Union (WAEMU) common
external tariff (CET) took place in a number of stages from 1998 to January 2000. The process
involved a reduction of the maximum rate from 37 percent to 21 percent, the adoption of four rates
3



for customs duties (0, 5, 10, and 20 percent) and of a statistical tax of I percent, a shift in the
classification of products subject to the different rates, and a temporary protection tax of
15 percent for eligible products. The new product classification becane effective in April 1999
with a temporary maximum rate of 25 percent, which was reduced to 20 percent on January 1,
2000. These measures led to a reduction of the level of protection in Burkina Faso. Corporate
income tax has also been reduced from 45 percent in 1996 to 35 percent in 1999.
10.    The implementation of the first two phases of the privatization program, launched
respectively in 1991 and 1994, has been completed, and 41 companies have been either privatized
or liquidated. At the same time, significant progress has been made in the third phase of the
program, which focuses on public utilities and the cotton sector. Regarding telecommunications,
the Government has developed a sectoral strategy, adopted a new regulatory framework with the
creation of ARTEL (the regulatory authority for the telecommunications sector), and has opened
the sector to competition by issuing two cellular licenses. As a result, telecommunications costs
have decreased substantially in recent months.
11.   Civil service reform, which began in 1999, is expected to be implemented progressively. It
includes implementation of the new system of merit-based promotion, which has already been
introduced, and recruitment of civil servants as contractual employees with long-terrn contracts,
except for those holding key positions.
C.         Medium-Term Prospects and Financing Requirements
12.    As stated in its PRSP, the Government's core objectives for 2005 are to: (i) raise GDP per
capita, at a minimum, by 3 percent annually; (ii) reduce the headcount poverty index from 45.3
percent to less than 35 percent; (iii) raise the literacy rate from 19 to 40 percent; and (iv) increase
life expectancy to 57 years. To achieve these goals, it is essential that more be done to improve the
quality of public service delivery, remove constraints on economic activity, and foster the
development of a dynamic and modern private sector, in particular by improving the business
environment.
13.    An econometric model was developed in close collaboration with the Government's
economic team in order to design an appropriate mix of fiscal, monetary, and public investment
policies that would bring the economy to a higher growth path while maintaining an adequate level
of consumption. Under the base case scenario, simulation results indicate that real GDP growth
could average 4.5 percent per annum over the period 2000-05, while the GDP deflator will
stabilize below the WAEMU target at about 2.4 percent on average. At the annual real GDP
growth rate of about 4.5 percent, and given the current elasticity of poverty reduction with respect
to mean income (about 1.5), poverty in Burkina Faso will decrease by only 16 percent (about 7
percentage points) and the country will not meet the poverty reduction targets embodied in the
International Development Goals.4 Also, this scenario carries with it a significant downside risk.
Because cotton remains the main export crop, the Burkinabe economy will remain vulnerable to
climatic and terns of trade shocks. In the case of a serious adverse external shock, real GDP
growth rate may fall below the population growth rate, which could exacerbate poverty and
worsen domestic and external imbalances.
4 With its population growing at 2.8 percent a year, a real GDP growth rate of 4.5 percent implies an
increase in GDP per capita of 1.7 percent. Assuming an elasticity of poverty with respect to income of 1.5,
this would translate into a reduction of 2.6 percent per year of the headcount index, i.e., 1.2 points from the
current 45.3 percent.
4



14.   Total financing requirements for the period 2000-2002 are estimated at US$2,827 million,
of which imports of goods and non-interest services account for about 83 percent, and scheduled
debt service obligations about 8 percent. Identified resources amount to US$2,733 million, leaving
a financing gap before SPA support of US$94 million for the period. Since Burkina Faso is a CFA
zone member, financing requirements should be analyzed through the budgetary gap. According to
the most recent estimates available, expenditures and net lending (excluding proceeds of
privatization) are expected to amount CFAF 484.7 billion for 2001, compared with projected fiscal
revenues and grants of CFAF 379.3 billion. This would lead to an overall budget deficit of CFAF
105.4 billion. Delays in the mobilization of external financing in 2000 led to greater use of net
credit to Government, and could jeopardize positive achievements in fiscal management and other
structural reforms in 2001. The budgetary gap takes into account the Poverty Reduction and
Growth Facility (PRGF) program targets for primary surplus and net credit to Government. For
2001, it is expected to be fully financed by donor contributions. In the longer run, given that
Burkina Faso's structural deficiencies in terms of domestic revenue mobilization will only be
addressed gradually, the effective implementation of the PRSP will require sustained external
support from the donor community.
III.   BURKINA FASO'S POVERTY REDUCTION STRATEGY
A.         Poverty Profile, Social Indicators, and Main PRSP Objectives
15.   Poverty Profile. Despite Burkina Faso's good recent economic performance, the country
still faces many development challenges. Real GNP per capita remains at US$230. By this
measure, Burkina Faso is among the poorest countries in the world. In 1996 and 2000, the
Government issued poverty profiles based on the results of priority surveys conducted in 1994 and
1998. Poverty incidence remained broadly stable (from 44.5 percent in 1994 to 45.3 percent in
1998). Poverty in Burkina Faso is predominantly rural, accounting for 94.5 percent of national
poverty. The incidence of regional poverty varies widely. The cotton-growing western region has
the lowest incidence, at 41 percent, and the center-north part of the country has the highest
incidence.
16.   Participatory surveys of the perceptions of the poor regarding poverty reveal that the
situation differs depending on where the respondents live. The key factors for the urban poor are,
in order of importance, climate-related hazards, low purchasing power, old age, and large family
size. Poor people in rural areas, however, attribute their situation mainly to lack of economic
opportunities, physical handicaps, and social decay. The regional analysis of poverty shows that
the poverty map in Burkina Faso changed between 1994 and 1998. Although the incidence of
poverty decreased significantly (by nearly eight percentage points) in the southern, southeastern,
and northern agro-climatic regions, the south-central region experienced an increase of four
percentage points. The analysis of poverty among socioeconomic groups (based on source of
income) shows that the incidence of poverty is increasing for all groups except cash crop farmers
and inactive persons. It is highest among food crop farmers, who account for most of the
population living in poverty.
5



Table 2: Welfare Distribution by Economic Region (in percent)
Headcount index         Poverty gap index        Relative contribution
Regions              1994       1998        1994          1998         1994        1998
West                 40.1       40.8         11.9         12.0         16.4        16.1
South                45.1       37.3         14.0         12.0         9.0         6.8
Center-south         51.4       55.5         14.6         19.7         27.8        28.3
Center-north         61.2       61.2         20.9         18.2         31.6        30.6
North               50.1        42.3         18.7         11.3         6.1         5.9
Southeast            54.4       47.8         18.7         12.2         5.3         6.8
Ouaga and Bobo       7.8        11.2         1.5           2.7         1.8         2.7
Other towns          18.1       24.7         4.9          6.3          2.0         2.8
All urban            10.4       15.9         2.5           4.0         3.8         5.6
All rural            51.1       50.7         16.1         15.8         96.2        94.5
National             44.5       45.3         13.9         13.9          -           -
( ) The headcount index is the percentage of a group below the poverty line. The poverty gap measures
the depth of poverty defined as the percentage by which consumption remains below the one
corresponding to the poverty line. Relative contribution is the ratio of the number of people from each
group to the total number of people below the poverty line.
17.    Social Development. Despite the substantial increase in government resources allocated
for social services, commensurate progress in social and human development has not been
forthcoming (see Annex 3). Although key education and health indicators have improved in the
past decade, most social indicators of Burkina Faso are poor, even by Sub-Saharan standards, and
the low health status and education level of the population constitute major constraints to
economic and social development. Throughout the past decade Burkina Faso has pursued a
satisfactory resource allocation policy that reflects the priority assigned to basic education. Thus,
between 1990 and 1999 primary enrollment rose from 30 percent to 41 percent (34 percent for
girls). The number of new admissions in the first year of primary school doubled in the same
period. Educational opportunities have improved particularly for those in rural areas, where 70
percent of all new classrooms have been built over recent years. The disparities between
provinces are decreasing in that the proportion of provinces failing to reach the national average
enrollment rate has fallen from 73 percent to 58 percent.
18.    Despite these efforts, significant problems persist. Firstly, resource allocation in favor of
the education sector can be increased even further: public funds allocated to the education sector
represent 21.6 percent of public expenditure and 2.8 percent of GDP, whereas African countries
benefiting from the HIPC Initiative devote an average of 4 percent of their GDP to education.
Secondly, unit costs in primary education remain high: 0.24 times per capita GDP compared with
0.15 times on average for French-speaking African countries. Thirdly, in rural areas, the
proportion of families not registering their children for school increases from the least poor deciles
to the poorest. Fourthly, the retention rate is low (60 percent compared with 67 percent on average
for the French-speaking African countries); the rate is only 49 percent in rural areas and 41 percent
for girls in those areas. Finally, repetition rates remain high: 15 percent between the first and fifth
years of primary school and about 40 percent in fifth grade, indicating excess demand for the first
cycle of secondary education. Consequently, the cost of producing a primary graduate is twice
what it ought to be.
19.    Propelled by very high fertility (the fertility rate is 6.8 births per woman), Burkina Faso's
population is growing at a rapid rate of 2.8 percent annually. Health indicators place Burkina Faso
among the most disadvantaged countries in Sub-Saharan Africa. In 1999, life expectancy at birth
was 54 years, child mortality is 219 per 1,000, and maternal mortality is 484 per 100,000 births.
More than one-third of all children suffer from malnutrition. Burkina Faso is also one of the
countries in West Africa more severely affected by the AIDS epidemic. HIV seroprevalence is 7
percent among the general population and 13 percent among truckers. Nearly 64 percent of the
prostitutes in Ouagadougou and 43 percent of those in Bobo-Dioulasso are estimated to be
6



seropositive. The evolution of health indicators over time is also particularly disturbing. According
to UNDP's human development index - which uses indicators of life expectancy, child
malnutrition, and access to basic education, health services, and safe water to measure some of the
qualitative dimensions of deprivation -Burkina Faso ranks 76th among 78 developing countries,
and about 58 percent of its population does not meet minimum health requirements. Consequently,
health and education sector reforms have been and remain at the top of the Government's policy
agenda.
B.      Progress on Key Reforms and Implementation of the PRSP
20.    Track Record from Previous Adjustment Operations. The proposed PRSC I follows the
1998 EMRSO and the 1999 SAC III for Burkina Faso and would provide medium-term support
for the Government's public sector management reform plan derived from the PRSP. SAC III
supported a reform program aimed at: (i) improvement of the competitiveness of the economy, in
the interests of raising growth rates substantially over the medium term and alleviating poverty;
(ii) improvement in public finance management, particularly with regard to tax policy and the use
of public resources; and (iii) implementation of the third phase of the CET completed on January
1, 2000. Tax and trade reform were considered essential to creation of an environment conducive
to efficient private sector investment and growth. Public finance reform and regional integration
would benefit Burkina Faso's growth over the medium and long-term by improving the
Government's resource mobilization system, improving efficiency and productivity; and providing
Burkina Faso's economic agents with free access to the significantly larger WAEMU market.
21.   The Government has made substantial progress in implementing the SAC III reform
agenda (see Implementation Completion Report no. 21555-BUR), particularly in the five policy
areas identified as likely triggers for further adjustment support:
*  Adoption ofprogram budgets in the six key government ministries identified in the April
1999 budget guidelines (i.e., Health, Economy and Finance, Territorial Administration,
Defense, Basic Education, and Secondary/Higher education). The Burkinabe authorities
exceeded expectations by preparing a full medium-term expenditure framework for 2001-
2003 that was presented to Parliament in October 2000 with the FY2001 draft budget.
* Local recruitment for contractual positions in education. The draft legal documents have
been prepared by the Ministry of Basic Education, and discussions with the Ministries of
Finance and Civil Service for their validation are ongoing. The documents include: (i) a
decree modifying the status of the Teacher Training Colleges (TTCs) so that they will train
for the education market without any obligation on the Government to recruit their graduates
as civil servants; and (ii) decrees authorizing the recruitment of teachers at local levels, and
defining the responsibilities of the parties involved. These documents were adopted by the
Cabinet in March 2001. The new trainees who will enter the TTCs in October 2001 will
graduate in 2003-which is consistent with the timetable of the 1998 decentralization and
deconcentration policy. A total of 574 teachers have already been recruited at the local level
through the ecoles-satellites.
* Implementation of the public enterprise reform and privatization program. According to
the schedule given in the 1999-2002 Policy Framework Paper, liberalization of the
telecommunications sector is proceeding as planned: the regulatory framework was adopted
in February 2000, the regulatory authority became operational in April 2000, two mobile
phone licenses were assigned to private operators in April 2000, and selection of the
investment bank that will organize sale of the telephone company (ONATEL) was finalized
7



in December 2000. The privatization of the ONATEL should become effective in early 2002.
Liberalization has also taken place in the area of mobile telephony, among others, with the
entry of two new operators on this market. In the electricity sector, the Government adopted a
broad strategy in December 1999 to reform the sector, has prepared the necessary regulatory
framework, and has made specific arrangements for privatizing SONABEL and reforming the
petroleum import company SONABHY. New laws authorizing the privatization of
SONABEL and SONABHY were adopted by Parliament in July 2001. Sale of Air Burkina to
a strategic partner has been completed. The privatization program has removed a large source
of rents and patronage from the public sector. The restructuring of the financial sector and
related reforms have greatly reduced the role of Government in credit allocation decisions
(delinquent borrowers are prohibited from obtaining new bank loans and from bidding on
public procurement contracts and privatizations). The Government has also carried out a
major overhaul of its business laws by enacting new legislation in implementation of the
OHADA Treaty.
* Preparation of a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper in close collaboration with the Bank
and the IMF. Burkina Faso was the second country to present a satisfactory full PRSP to the
Bank and IMF Boards, in June 2000.
* Completion and transmission to the Supreme Audit Institution (Chambre des Comptes de
la Cour Supreme)5 ofyear-end budget execution reports (Lois de reglements) for fiscal years
1995 and 1996. In 1999, for the first time in over a decade, budget execution reporting la,ws for
fiscal years 1993 and 1994 were enacted by the National Assembly. The Government has also
completed recently reports for the 1995-1998 period. An independent Supreme Audit Court was
created in 2000. It will be given a larger role in the preparation of audited budget laws. An
audit of military expenditures for fiscal year 1999 was completed and submitted tc, the
Supreme Audit Institution and to Parliament. In close collaboration with the Government and
other donors, the Bank is currently carrying out a CFAA.
22.   Progress To Date on the Implementation of the PRSP. Because of the delayed and partial
receipt of funds provided under the HIPC Initiative in 2000, the execution of priority poverty
reduction programs did not effectively get off the ground until early 2001. These problems were
exacerbated by a difficult economic situation characterized by a slowing of growth and a public
finance situation that was less favorable than expected. In fact, the economy of Burkina Faso was
hard hit by unfavorable exogenous shocks (rise in oil prices, appreciation of the dollar vis-A-vis the
CFA franc, decline in transfers from expatriates and the return of migrants from C6te d'IvDire,
introduction of the WAEMU's common external tariff), which slowed growth in 2000. The GDP
growth rate in constant prices, estimated at 2.2 percent, remains well below the level required to
have an impact on poverty.
23.   In spite of the delay and the shortfall in HIPC relief in relation to initial estimates (CFAF
7.35 billion out of 10.5 billion), the level of execution of priority programs is considered
satisfactory (see Annex 5). The Burkinabe authorities have decided to allocate HIPC resources
received as of December 31, 2000 to three sectors: basic education, health, and roads. Of CFA
7.35 billion mobilized as of December 31, 2000, the Ministry of Basic Education (MEBA)
received CFAF 2.873 billion, a portion of which (2.343 billion) was allocated to infrastructure
work. The MEBA program covers new three-class schools, additional teachers' residences,
latrines, boreholes, the purchase of teaching materials, and school equipment. The Ministry of
5 In April 2000, the Chambre des Comptes was separated from the Supreme Court and established as an
independent Supreme Audit Institution.
8



Health received CFAF 3.587 billion for the construction of new health centers, the purchase of
new equipment and medication, the purchase of vaccinations to combat epidemics, etc. The rural
roads program, which is also a major component of the Government's poverty reduction strategy,
was allocated CFAF 890 million from the HIPC resources. The resources will make it possible to
build 400 km of roads in six provinces (Kouritenga, Koulpelgo, Tapoa, Oubritenga, Kossi, and
Noumbiel). The Burkinabe authorities have begun working on a progress report of the first year of
implementation of the PRSP (see preliminary staff assessment in Annex 5). The report will be
completed after extensive consultation of all stakeholders, officially released in September 2001,
and jointly reviewed by the IMF and the Bank.
C.      Public Sector Reform, Governance, and Poverty Reduction
1. The PRSP's Emphasis on Public Service Delivery.
24.   The June 2000 PRSP identified ineffective public sector institutions and weak governance
as major constraints to growth and equitable development in Burkina Faso. Various studies carried
out by the Govemment and donors in the framework of the PRSP have concluded that misguided
resource allocation, excessive public intervention in some sectors where market failures are not
observed, weak local capacity, lack of transparency in the use of public funds and corruption have
deterred private investment, which is an essential ingredient to higher growth, better employment
opportunities, and poverty reduction. An ineffective public sector has also led to inadequate
service delivery, especially in rural areas.
25.   A number of factors associated with poverty, in turn, lead to ill health, high fertility, and
poor nutrition. The poor in the remoter areas lack access to markets and to information about
markets. Female illiteracy (87 percent in 1998; 58 percent in urban areas and 93 percent in rural
areas), low access to clean water (78 percent) and sanitation facilities (18 percent), food insecurity,
and poor household dietary and sanitary practices, as well as low access to preventive health
programs, family-planning services, and basic curative care, all undermine the well-being of
Burkina Faso's poorest populations (for more details, see PRSP, Section 2.4 and Table 4). The
overall literacy rate in Burkina Faso is estimated at 18.4 percent. In rural areas, 90 percent of the
adult population has never attended school. Gross enrollment, at 42 percent in 1999/2000, remains
low, even compared with African countries. One of the key characteristics of the poor which
remained consistent over time is their lack of basic education. Of all the poor, more than 93
percent had no education, and the rest who have attended any schooling failed to complete
secondary education. Also, the distribution of population between poor and non poor across
education level of head shows a systematic decline in proportion at increasing levels of education
in the poor. At the highest level of education, almost everyone is non poor (99.4 percent).
26.   Poor health and nutritional status and high fertility are both a cause and a consequence of
poverty in Burkina Faso. They cause poverty by diminishing productivity, reducing household
income, and increasing health expenditures. Typically, the proportion of household income spent
on health is higher in low-income groups than in higher-income groups. Illness and death from
AIDS leave affected households and orphans severely impoverished and, in some cases, socially
isolated and unprotected. Poverty, in its broader definition, encompasses not only lack of income
but also lack of access to basic social services that could otherwise enhance opportunities for
earning income and improving the quality of life. Improving health outcomes is thus a critical
component of Burkina Faso's poverty reduction strategy.
27.   Access to potable water has not significantly changed between 1994 and 1998. For
90 percent of the population, sources of water were wells, boreholes, or public taps in 1994 and in
9



1998. However, some areas suffer critical water shortages in the dry season. In addition, a key
indicator is the amount of time women spend collecting water, but information on this is not
available. There was no progress made in increasing access to electricity in rural areas, which is
still at less than I percent. In urban areas, access increased from 29 percent of households in 1994
to 34 percent in 1998, but there was no improvement for the lowest quintiles of the urban
population.
28.    The Government acknowledges that improving public institutions is the key to addressing
these issues. Refocusing the role of the State and promoting good governance are two of the main
guiding principles of Burkina Faso's poverty reduction strategy. As stated in the PRSP, the
strategy "assumes that the State will only intervene in the context of a clear definition of its
powers and role as compared with those of civil society and the private sector. Public intervention
will always be guided by two major motivations: compensating for market failures in the
allocation of resources and seeking social equity. The role of the State needs to be reassessed in
light of current thinking concerning its divestiture of responsibilities, the liberalization of the
economy, and promotion of the private sector. The idea is not to reassign the State an
interventionist role that it is unable to assume but to place it in a position to perform best its
regulatory and redistribution functions to best effect in order to prevent the accentuation of
inequalities." Against that background, public sector reform is considered a pre-requisite to the
successful implementation of Burkina Faso's poverty reduction strategy.
2. Why Public Sector Reform is Essential to Growth and Poverty Reduction.
29.    Consistent with the PRSP's focus on the reform of public institutions, the Burkinabe
authorities have adopted and started the implementation of a medium-term action plan aiming at
improving the performance of the entire public sector. To improve the quality and equitable access
of social services, emphasis must be placed on improving managerial and implementation
capacity, and increasing expenditure efficiency. The rationale stems from conclusions of the 1994
and 1998 priority surveys and poverty profiles that public institutions can affect the Government's
poverty reduction goals through several channels: their impact on service delivery, on citizen
participation in policy design, implementation and evaluation, and on governance.
30.    A successful poverty reduction strategy will depend on improvements in the quality and
accessibility to poor people of basic education, health, potable water, and other basic infrastructure
services. The overall development policy for the education system up to the 2010 horizon is based
on two principles: increasing the coverage of basic education with a view to achieving universal
education while upgrading its quality; and ensuring that the development of the education system,
including the post-primary level, satisfies the demand for educated labor and that the number and
quality of graduates meet the needs of the economy. The aim for the next ten years is therefore to
pursue this policy of giving priority to basic education in terms of both quantity and quality, but
also to pursue the development of post-primary education. The intention is to achieve a better
balance of the system as a whole, to satisfy the aspirations of part of the population, and to lay the
foundation for meeting the development needs of the modern employment sector and the urban
and rural informal sector. In the basic education sector, the Government's program aims to
increase access to basic education of sufficiently high quality for the majority of the country's
population by seeking cost-effective and financially sustainable solutions capable of resolving the
problems that have so far slowed the sector's development and caused its inequity and
inefficiency. This can only be achieved through the implementation of major public sector reforms
both at the central level (ministries of economy and finance and ministries in charge of education)
and at the local level (regional and provincial Government entities, private sector, and community
organizations).
10



31.    In the health sector, public sector reform-and public expenditure management in
particular-is also the key for achieving some of the key objectives laid out in the Ten-Year
Development Plan. Public expenditure will be targeted to cost-effective interventions addressing
the health problems of the poor and vulnerable. Rural areas with the worst coverage and quality of
basic primary health care services will receive priority for public investments and a larger share of
current expenditure, including the wage expenditure. The Government will improve the efficiency
of service delivery through the following: review of the organizational structure of the Ministry of
Health; review of its pricing policies in an effort to reduce the cost or render free of charge
essential and preventive services to increase access and utilization of these services by the poor;
availability of essential drugs will be improved to 90 percent or more; and continued monitoring of
the availability and affordability of drugs to the poor and vulnerable has been instituted.
32.    On rural development, public institutional reform has made it possible to liberalize trade in
agricultural products (traditional cereals and rice), privatize a certain number of public
agroindustrial enterprises, and reorganize the former Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock as well
as agricultural services (extension and research). To support and strengthen these advances, and
taking into account the importance of agriculture and livestock in efforts to reduce poverty-which
affects the majority of rural communities-judiciously chosen public investment is needed.
Specifically, public expenditure on rural infrastructure, technology generation, and institutional
development/reform is necessary for rural and agricultural growth to accelerate. Decentralized
decision making and economic empowerment of beneficiary communities are expected to improve
the choice, relevance, cost effectiveness, and maintenance of rural infrastructure. In addition, to
meet the demands of the local population, the deconcentration of sectoral ministries (and engaging
in public/private partnerships where appropriate) will improve the delivery mechanisms of public
goods and services and make them more demand-responsive.
3. A New Framework for Public Intervention
33.    The PRSP outlines a more effective framework for deciding when and how  the
Government should intervene. The guidelines for the 2002 budget establish program budgets for
all ministries, with a specific criteria for defining actions plans in each sector. First, there will be a
determination of a clear rationale for public intervention in any given sector. This could be either
market failures (including public goods, externalities, and non-cooperative markets), especially in
the basic education and the health sectors, or the need to address inequalities in access to public
services and distribution of income. The analytical tools to be used to determine the nature and
extent of public intervention will include: a participatory poverty assessment in 2001-02; a third
priority survey in 2002, followed by an update of the poverty profile; a second benefit incidence
analysis for the health, education, and water sectors in the framework of the 2002 public
expenditure review; and the evaluation of selected poverty reduction programs.
34.    Once the rationale for public intervention has clearly been established, a second step in the
Government's approach is the rationalization of the selection criteria used to decide among
alternative instruments to offset market failures or improve distributive outcomes. The PRSP
acknowledges that too often in the past, the focus was on increasing budget allocations and to have
the Government involved in sectors where market failures had been identified. The new
framework provides for a thorough analysis of all alternative instruments available before
resorting to state-run programs only as a last option. Potential instruments listed in the PRSP
include: changes in the regulatory framework to encourage private sector participation in all
priority sectors and to favor private sector provision of public services, the use of tax policy to
achieve equity, etc. Finally, for state-run programs, the priorities are set consistent with the rolling
11



three-year medium-term expenditure framework (2002-04). Methods to rank across programs
include social cost-benefit and cost effectiveness analyses.
4. The PRSP's Three-Pronged Approach to Public Sector Reform.
35.   The Government's medium-term reform program to address these constraints takes stock
of recent analytical work on public expenditure reviews, public sector institutional reform,
capacity building, service delivery, and governance, and outlines what the World Bank and the
donor community can do to enhance the implementation of the agenda. The objective is to build
public institutions that are responsive to the citizenry and reasonably efficient in the delivery of
public services. New rules have been adopted to make their decisionmaking processes and
decisions they result in more transparent and predictable. Oversight mechanisms (both internal to
the budget system like the Finance Inspectorate General and independent like the Supreme audit
court or the Parliament) are being strengthened to guard against arbitrariness and to ensure
accountability in the use of public resources. However, these checks and balances do not eliminate
the delegation needed to respond quickly to changing circumstances at the local level. The public
sector reform and good governance program goes beyond the traditional focus on technical,
supply-side budget rules, to include demand-side incentives that foster ownership and promote
sustainable changes. Action plans outlined in the PRSP and developed in sectoral strategies aim at:
(i) improving budget management rules; (ii) strengthening participation in public affairs; and (iii)
broadening the number of providers to promote competition in service delivery.6
36.   Budget Management Rules and Restraint. The Burkinabe authorities have greatly
improved their budgeting and expenditure practices over the past five years. A comprehensive
Public Expenditure Review (PER) in 1995 and a public expenditure incidence analysis in the
education, health, and water sectors in 1996 and 1997 contributed to the understanding of equity
issues, although not of the rationale for or the efficiency of expenditures in those sectors.
Following the adoption by the Boards of the Bank and the Fund of the HIPC Decision Point
document in November 1997, the authorities understood the crucial importance of improving
budget management as a key component of their poverty reduction strategy. The Government
adopted a program for regular consultations between the Bank and the authorities on all budgetary
issues; and established a multi-year program to enhance staff capabilities on public financial
management matters. An interministerial committee was set up to coordinate subsequent work on
public expenditure management. As a result of these efforts, some progress was made. In early
2000, four major PER studies were carried out and their key recommendations were taken into
account in the PRSP and in the MTEF. But important weaknesses persist at all levels of budget
management. The Government's program for the period 2001-03, presented in detail in Annex 1,
will address deficiencies in: (i) budget formulation; (ii) budget execution and procurement
procedures; (iii) budget monitoring and performance evaluation; and (iv) internal control, auditing,
and external oversight.
37.   In late 2000 a joint World Bank/IMF team undertook preliminary assessments of the
quality of central government public expenditure management systems in 25 HIPC countries.7 The
assessments were designed to identify weaknesses in public expenditure management systems that
could hinder the tracking of poverty-reducing public spending, and thereby to adopt corrective
measures and medium-term action plans to ensure adequate fiduciary accountability for all public
6 The PRSP's approach to public sector reform is fully consistent with the broad framework outlined in
Reforming Public Institutions and Strengthening Governance: A World Bank Strategy (November 2000).
7 Tracking of Poverty-Reducing Public Spending in Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPCs), IMF and
World Bank, March 27, 2001.
12



funds. The work focused on key areas of public expenditure management: budget formulation,
execution, and evaluation/monitoring. To assess relative needs, benchmarks were adopted that
describe the basic requirements for a budget system to track poverty-reducing spending. The
findings suggest that Burkina Faso was one of the only two countries in the sample with "little
upgrading required" (see a summary of the findings in Annex 1, Box 2).
38.   In June 2001, a draft fiscal module was prepared of an IMF Report on the Observance of
Standards and Codes (ROSC). The report concluded that "good progress has been made [over
recent years] in a number of areas to increase the transparency and accountability of Government."
The report also pointed out that additional efforts are needed with regard to expenditure tracking at
the local level and external audit functions. An action plan indicating what additional technical
assistance would be needed to fully upgrade the capacity to track poverty-reducing spending was
discussed with the authorities. It focuses on improving: the tracking of decentralized expenditure;
the assessment of external aid; the availability of economic and functional classification; the use
and dissemination of economic information; and the auditing systems and the operationalization of
the "Cour des Comptes" (Supreme audit institution). The implementation of these measures is at
the heart of the PRSC program.
39.   In the framework of its own regular assessment of the budget system, the Government has
just completed a Plan de Renforcement de la Gestion des Depenses Budgetaires (PRGB), which is
an important diagnostic work and a building block for a full-fledged Country Financial
Accountability Assessment (CFAA). The PRGB was prepared in close consultation with the
World Bank and other donors. Its objectives were to: (i) gain a better understanding of the inner
workings of existing financial accountability arrangements; (ii) ensure that proper checks and
balances exist in the country's financial accountability framework, and that they are working as
designed to provide the necessary safeguards for the efficient and transparent use of public funds
(the country's own resources as well as financial assistance from donors); and (iii) contribute to
the design and implementation of an enhanced and a strong financial accountability framework in
Burkina Faso which will promote financial stability and economic development and provide
donors with adequate assurance for continuing their financial support. The PRGB provided
comprehensive coverage of the institutional framework for budget management; the budget law;
budget execution; and budget control. The PRGB concluded that the existing institutional
framework is adequate and provides the key mechanisms to ensure transparency. A few
weaknesses mainly in the areas of staffing and compliance with written rules and regulations were
observed. An action plan for addressing the remaining issues will be developed in the CFAA. An
adequate ex-ante fiduciary assessment for proceeding with the proposed PRSC is provided by the
combination of the HIPC tracking study, the government's own financial management self-
assessment (PRGB) and its assessment by the Bank and donors, the fiscal module of the IMF
ROSC, the completed public expenditure work, the CPAR, and various studies on public finance
management by other donors (AfDB, EC, France).
40.   Stakeholders' Participation in Policy Issues. Participatory development has been a
tradition in Burkina Faso and a key component of its development efforts. Communities have
always had a role in choosing and implementing grassroots development-activities. In support of
this tradition of participatory development, a robust associative movement - which also has its
origins in traditional society - has emerged and has expanded steadily. Non-governmental
organizations (NGOs) -which have increased in number significantly since the major drought of
the early 1970s - have been instrumental in the success of this concept. Some 200 NGOs have
formed associations, the major ones being: the Permanent NGO Secretariat; the NGO and
Association Liaison Office; the Network for Communications, Information and Training of
Women in NGOs; the Secretariat for Sahelian NGO Consultations; the Comprehensive
13



Framework for Consultations between NGOs and Associations on Environment and Development;
and the NGO Coordination Committee on Basic Education. The associative movement also
includes nearly 14,000 entities (cooperatives, groups, and self-help organizations). In addition, the
Government has established a gateway for discussions and exchanges with all stakeholders in
society by creating a framework for consultations between the State and civil society and another
for consultations between the State and the private sector.
41.    The PRSP provides for several new mechanisms to promote citizen participation in policy
design, implementation and monitoring. These include various forms of representative
decisionmaking and political oversight at the local level (decentralization and deconcentration);
direct involvement by users and civil society groups; and the transparent production and
dissemination of information on the use of public resources.
42.    Establishment of a new institutional framework in the education sector. Education sector
management, policy, evaluation, planning, steering, and supervisory directorates, as well as
regional and departmental directorates, and inspection offices, will become key factors in
implementing the ten-year program. Moreover, the HIPC initiative is going to make substantial
budget appropriations available for the social sectors.  The idea is therefore to reform the
organizational structure of the ministry of education (MEBA), in such a way as to make it fully
operational as soon as possible. This in-depth reorganization of the MEBA will make it possible to
define mandates, responsibilities, and professional profiles, set standards and management and
pilot strategies, and establish budget items at the decentralized level. This will strengthen the
ability of the DREBA (regional directorates) to direct basic education and that of the DPEBA
(provincial directorates) and school inspectors to oversee activities.
43.    Empowerment of stakeholders in the health sector. As stated in the PRSP, the Government
supports the participation of users and communities in the development and management of health
care activities. Partnerships will be built with local health service providers, and accountability to
the poor will be reinforced. To this end, the Government plans to: (i) Improve health coverage by
decentralizing service provision and management to the health district level (for instance, Burkina
Faso's new AIDS/HIV strategy is based on a multi-sectoral, decentralized approach, with
strengthened partnership with civil society.); (ii) Strengthen user and community participation in
health management and make providers responsible for the results obtained. This is key to making
public service providers more accountable to the communities they serve and to providing
communities with the information they need to participate effectively in planning and budgeting of
local-level health activity. (iii) Strengthen the powers of local management committees (COGES) in
participatory microplanning and monitoring of priority health care activities, with a view to enable
them to establish effective dialogue and partnerships, and provide ongoing monitoring and
evaluation of performance; (iv) Promote the increased participation of women on the COGES; (v)
Develop community-based strategies in the following areas: protein-energy malnutrition, early
diagnosis, control or eradication of certain endemic diseases such as dracunculiasis, tuberculosis, and
leprosy; and (vi) Clearly define the uses to be made of resources generated by cost recovery at the
health district level (CSPS, CMA, or district health team).
44.    Fostering Community-Based Programs. The Government of Burkina Faso has decided to
establish a national strategy for decentralized rural development. The goal is to provide an overall
framework for the various programs and projects focusing on the development of rural
communities and thereby to ensure more efficient use of resources and unifornly high-quality
measures to combat poverty throughout the country. The objective is to take advantage of
synergies to achieve greater efficiency by aligning approaches and methods and setting up a
nationwide mechanism for coordination, monitoring, and evaluation. Following the PRSP, a Letter
14



of Development Policy for Decentralized Rural Development (LPDRD) was prepared in 2000 to fit
the overall vision into a well-defined multisectoral framework. Its vision of rural life between now
and 2010 revolves around five key developments: (i) The rural population has full responsibility for
development at the local level, through decentralized communities acting in effective partnership
with central govermment entities and services-the communities set development priorities, are
responsible for contract management for social and socioeconomic infrastructure, and manage the
natural resources of their land; (ii) The rural population enjoys effective access to social services
(health, education, drinking water, etc.) and to basic infrastructure; (iii) The Govemment's technical
missions concentrate on the State functions of formulating and monitoring sectoral policies,
observance of the regulations, and implementation of major public investnents; (iv) The private
sector, NGOs, and associations contribute to implementation of local development plans by
providing a variety of services, on a contract basis; and (v) Rural incomes have increased and their
food security has improved.
45.     Competition in Service Delivery. The PRSP acknowledges that enhancing competition in
the delivery of public services can also increase transparency and accountability. In the education
sector, important policy measures under consideration will facilitate the development of private
schools. The Government also plans to encourage private-sector involvement in meeting health
needs; A contractual approach to health service provision will also be developed, in an effort to
encourage local partners in health care (NGOs, communities, private sector, and academia) to
target their activities to underserved areas. In the rural development sector, the Government will
continue to disengage itself from production and marketing activities while strengthening its
support and advisory role vis-a-vis private operators (extension services, research and
development, information on market conditions), developing the support infrastructure needed by
the sector (transport, water, etc.) and upgrading human resources (basic education, technical and
commercial advisory services). In the livestock sub-sector, the authorities have already decided to
withdraw public entities from service delivery to cattle breeders to promote competition.
Box 1: Decentralization in Burkina Faso
Back-ground. 'ihe country s reorganiizalion into territorial communitics lcollectivites territorialesl was sanctioned by
the Constitution of June 2. 1991. 'This was followed in 1993 by the passage of five laws providing for decentralization
in Burkina. supplernented by a number of implmcnting decrees. The public territorial communities were established
at the province and municipality lcvels.  Ihesc are legal entities, with tinancial autonomy and their own local
deliberative bodies The task ot decentralivation was assigned to the National Decentralization Commission (under the
Prime Minister's supervision), whose two principal tools are the lvnds dti ddmarrage des communes (FODECOM) and
the Service d'appui a la gestion et ant dveloppement des communes (SAGEDECOM). An interministerial commission
was established to drafl the implementing regulations.
Present legislative and institutional framework. I'he organization and administration of the territory are govcrned by
the Decentralization Law lTextes d'orientation de lua dcentralisation - TOD] adopted by the National Assembly in
1998 and the respective implementing dccrees. Burkina Faso's territory is organized into local communities (provinces
and municipalities) and administrative districts regions, provinces, departments, municipalities, villages). There are 45
provinces, 350 departments. and 49 urban municipalities. of' which 33 are already on their second mandate and the
other 16 in process of establishmcnt. 'ihc local communitics have an elected Council to manage provincial and
municipal business. The administrative districts are frameworks representing the authority of the State, and are not
legal entities.
'The local community's Council is responsible for voting on the community's balanced budget. This is approved jointly
by the minister responsible for territorial administration and the minister responsible for finance, or by their
representatives at the local level. Its operating income consists of the tax revenue collected within the exclusive
territory ofthe local community (the province beyond the municipal perimeters; the municipality), income from service
operations (i.e. from the services delivered by the communities), income from government property [recettes du
domaine], miscellaneous receipts, and the share of the overall operating grant allocated under the Finance Act (which
depends on the number of inhabitants and the financial potential).  Receipts also include, on the one hand. own
income, the share of the global infrastructure grant allocated under the finance act (which depends on the number of
15



inhabitants and the available infrastructure and equipment), subsidies, grants and bequests. and on the other hand.
borrowings, which must first be authorized by the supervisory authority. Budget resources will serve to cover the
financial charges pertaining to their sphere of activities.
Programnung of the decentralization process. The description and programming of the decentrali7ation process were
set down in Law No. 043/98/AN of 08/06/98. A period of five years. i.e. up to 2003. was allowed for the effective
transfer of responsibilities and the accompanying transfer of induced resources. Priority was given to the sectors of
education, culture, and health, for which the planning consisted of: (i) an initial assessment of the resources and
capacities required for the transfer (infrastructure, equipment. personnel, financial resources), which would then be
submitted for appraisal by the arbitration commissions [commissions d'arbitrage]: (ii) hiring of local community
personnel; (iii) establishment of the deliberative bodies following an electoral process: (iv) in parallel. delegation of the
ministries' responsibilities to the government representatives and deconcentrated technical services.
Donor support. With support from the donors, a number of programs supporting the decentralization process have
recently been financed: several urban projects. the grassroots community support project. the national terroir
management programs. the municipal poverty reduction program for the 15 poorest municipalities. the decentralized
and participatory development project in Bazega and Kadiogo provinces. These projects and programs aim to promote
grassroots capacity building, structure the economic spaces of the local communities, and consolidate the basic
conditions of growth with a view to making public service delivery more efficient. In the area of decentralization, the
poverty reduction support credit is aimed at: (i) improving budget preparation and implementation procedures at the
central, deconcentrated and decentralized level; (ii) developing transparency and fiduciary responsibility in the system
of resource transfers among the diffcrent territorial levels, following the transfer of responsibilities, (iii) promoting
grassroots capacity building: and (iv) implementing a system for monitoring and evaluating the quality of public
service delivery.
IV.  BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND COLLABORATION WITH OTHER DONORS
A.      CAS Objectives
46.    A full Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Burkina Faso was presented to the Board,
jointly with IFC, on November 30, 2000 (Report 21285-BUR). The thrust of the Bank's future
program is to assist Burkina Faso in implementing its Poverty Reduction Strategy. The overriding
objective will be to support the Government's efforts to achieve sustained high growth rates, to
reduce the high incidence of income poverty, and to improve the nutrition, health, and education
of the rural population-the poorest segment of the general population. There is no substantial
divergence between the Bank's and the Government's development agendas, priorities, and
policies.
47.     The Bank Group's cumulative commitments to Burkina Faso as of June 30, 2001 amount
to some US$1,075 million equivalent for 60 operations, comprising 57 IDA credits totaling
US$1,072 million and three IFC investments (US$2.7 million). The 57 IDA credits (48 closed
and 9 active) include six adjustment operations (SAC I, Transport SECAL, Agriculture SECAL,
Economic Recovery Credit, Economic Management Reform Support Operation, and SAC 111),
twenty-two agriculture projects, five education projects, three health projects, nine
infrastructure/transport projects, three telecommunications projects, four urban projects, two
mining projects, one public institutional development project, one finance project, and one private
sector assistance project. Two of the IFC investments provided support for two financial
institutions (EcoBank-Burkina Faso, FY97; and SGBB, FY98), while the third supported AEF
Faso Mine.
48.     Ongoing Lending Operations. IDA's active portfolio in Burkina Faso is as follows:
*   Three operations support IDA's strategy in the agriculture sector. A  second Agricultural
Services project (US$41.3 million, FY98) aims at increasing agricultural productivity and
farmers' incomes, improving natural resource management and promoting institutional
16



development. A Private Irrigation project (US$5.2 million, FY99) supports provision of the
demand-driven services necessary for the development of an efficient, sustainable small
irrigation subsector in Burkina Faso. A Community-Based Rural Development Program
(US$66.7 million, FY01) aims at reducing poverty and promoting sustainable development in
rural areas. Its first phase provides for building local capacity to plan and implement rural
development, accelerating the pace of public transfers for decentralized rural development,
and supporting implementation of the country's decentralization framework.
*  To support human resource development, three operations are being implemented. A Post-
Primary Education project (US$26 million, FY97) supports implementation of the
Government's post-primary education strategy. In the health sector, a Health and Nutrition
project (US$29.2 million, FY94) assists the Government in its efforts to improve the quality,
coverage and utilization of basic health services, enhance the nutritional status of the
population, and develop national capacity for achieving sustainable control of endemic
parasitic diseases. A Population and AIDS Control project (US$26.3 million, FY94) aims at
hastening the onset of fertility rate decline by increasing the prevalence of modern methods
of contraception and at slowing the spread of HIV infections by promoting behavioral
change. In addition, an HIV/AIDS Disaster Response project was approved by the Board in
July 2001.
* In the urban sector, an Urban Environment project (US$37 million, FY95) aims at improving
living conditions through priority urban works and urban services benefiting low-income
groups.
* A water supply project (US$70 million, FY01) aims at increasing access to adequate and
reliable potable water in Ouagadougou through expanded distribution and tertiary water
networks and improved urban water subsector management.
* The miniang sector is also expected to expand, given the recent renewed interest in gold
exploration and extraction. A Mining Sector Capacity Building and Environmental
Management project (US$21.4 million, FY97) supports regulatory reform and training,
institutional strengthening and resource management, environmental management and small-
scale artisanal mining.
49.   Proposed Assistance Program. Bank intervention in support of the operational objectives
of the PRSP is intended to be selective and complementary of activities supported by other
donors. Specifically, the Bank envisages a program and related country budget allocation which
will: (i) give priority to supervision of ongoing projects; (ii) acknowledge the important role of
donors; (iii) consolidate lending operations into fewer, but broader resource transfer mechanisms
that are more closely integrated with the Government's own budgetary allocation and execution
processes; and (iv) include a share of nonlending services to foster a robust analytical base for
consensus and partnership building.
50.   To refocus its assistance program with a consistent emphasis on rapid growth with
poverty reduction, the Bank Group strategy in Burkina Faso focuses attention on: (i) key social
sectors where there are viable long-term strategies, or where they can be developed; (ii) longer-
term economic reforms to improve competitiveness and reduce business costs; (iii) improving
public resource management in the country; and (iv) adapting Bank programs to the sub-regional
framework and potentials. Bank lending to Burkina Faso will take the form of results-driven
programmatic credits (PRSCs) and self-standing projects for capacity building and infrastructure
17



investments directly targeted to poverty alleviation and private sector development. In terns of
instruments, there will be a continuation of analytical and advisory activities, as knowledge is the
critical input for progress in the substantive areas presented in the PRSP.
51.   Proposed Lending. The base case lending program is in the order of $400-420 million
over FYOI-03. It includes the following operations:
* A series of three Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs) is envisaged in FY02-FY03,
focusing on key sectoral action plans and reforms to improve public finance management, the
competitiveness of the economy, and to facilitate the country's integration into the regional
and world economy.
*  A technical assistance credit for private sector development (Competitiveness and Enterprise
Development project) will be prepared in FY02 to provide support in the implementation of
the  residual privatization  program;  improve  the  quality,  access, and  cost of
telecommunications; and promote the development of a strong indigenous private sector in
Burkina Faso through a streamlined business environment and well-targeted financial and
non-financial services to small and medium-size enterprises.
*  Under the ongoing Urban Environment operation the Bank will continue to support
improvement of urban living conditions through priority urban works, participation of the
urban population in urban services development and support to Government's
decentralization program. Supplemental financing for this project could be proposed in FY02.
*  In the transport sector, the Bank is considering a rural roads project for FY03.
* In the energy sector, the Bank will assist the Government, through the preparation of a sector
reform operation (FY02), aimed at introducing private sector participation to improve the
efficiency of the provision of electricity services and the supply of hydrocarbon products to
the economy, and increasing access to infrastructure services, especially for rural
communities. This operation will include a capacity development component to strengthen
management of the traditional energy sub-sector, capitalizing on ongoing work of the RPTES
Program funded by Dutch, Danish, and Norwegian grants.
*  In education the new proposed Basic Education APL (FY02) will address issues such as the
slow increase in primary enrollment and the unsatisfactory improvements in the quality of
education, as well as inequality between boys' and girls' enrollments, and rural and urban
areas, and teacher recruitment in local communities.
*  In health, our analysis of the allocation and utilization of HIPC funds will provide an
assessment on the need for increased IDA funding in the sector. The Bank would support
through PRSCs the Government's ten-year health strategy to address issues of poor health
and nutrition status, of rapid population growth and AIDS in Burkina Faso.
52.   Assessment of Country Policies. In close collaboration with the Burkinabe authorities,
IDA has undertaken a substantial body of analytic work over the past three years to assess key
social, structural, and sectoral development policies and identifv policy and institutional reform
priorities for poverty reduction (see Annex 9). IDA has relied on a combination of annual Policy
Framework papers, a second priority poverty survey and two poverty profiles, sectoral policy
notes, and informal papers on specific issues such as constraints to growth and competitiveness,
I g



or the dynamics of poverty and income inequality. IDA has also helped the Burkinabe authorities
carry out a substantial amount of analytical work in key sectors (education, health, rural
development, energy, transport, and private sector development). With IDA support, the
Government also carried out a comprehensive economic study on long-term sources of growth
and competitiveness in Burkina Faso. The study served as the basis for the preparation of the
PRSP and has helped advance the policy dialogue on the competitiveness of the economy and
private sector development. IDA has also used in-depth work carried out by the Government,
academic institutions, and other development partners.
53.   Fiduciary Assessment. IDA has collaborated with and assisted the Government in
assessing the country's public financial accountability arrangements. A Country Procurement
Assessment Review (CPAR) was completed in 2000 and a Bank study on public service delivery
was completed in June 2001. In the framework of its own regular assessment of the budget
system (para. 39), the Government carried out in June 2001 a Plan de Renforcement de la Gestion
des Depenses Budgetaires (PRGB), its own financial management review, discussed with the
World Bank and other donors. The PRGB directly feeds into the ongoing multi-donor Country
Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) to be completed in October 2001 (see Annex 1
Box 3). In 2000 and 2001, several public expenditure reviews were carried out to assess the
effectiveness of public funds in all key ministries (Basic Education, Health, Agriculture and
Livestock). These analytical and advisory activities (AAA) have provided a good understanding
of Burkina Faso's development problems, the analytical framework for designing and evaluating
macroeconomic and sectoral strategies, the need for and availability of external financing, and the
strengths and weaknesses of its fiduciary systems. They help coordinate donor projects and
harmonize IDA, Government and IMF perspectives, and generate public discussion of Burkina
Faso's development options, with the aim of creating public support for the ambitious reform
agenda ahead. Specifically, the findings of the various studies on public financial accountability,
including the assessments of parallel work by the IMF and other donors (see para. 60), indicate
that the spending programs for implementing the PRSP are adequate, and that Burkina Faso's
public expenditure, procurement, and financial management systems are satisfactory.
19



Fieure 2: The PRSC  Program  and AAA  Underoinnints
/;owth and            \                 /  M TE~~~~~~~F for 2002-04\
/  Competitiveness                                         Three-Yearlt Implementation   an
/   study (Aprl 2000)                       \      /     *TreYalpeetto   ln\
.Priority survey 11                       \ /           of the Health Ten-Year Plan             \        - Poverty profile 2002\
Analytica/ l               Ten-Yea? Education Plan                              .      National HIV/AIDS and Sexually                  Poverty Database
Andeayinninc s          .Demnographic and Health Survey                           Transmitted Infections Strategic Plan                Partieipatory Poverty Assessm ent
.driis  Demowmenraphic and Health Surv  (DO*2000 Poverty Profile                                              Update of the
ad.cPlon id'ratenlion oestioanl6gq   (DOSO* PER (four studies)                                             Rural Development PSO
and Plan E ySetorNgique opPraRnB (PSO)                 CPAR                                                 Preparation of the Livestock PS0
for Rural Development                                  PRG B (Government's awn
Transport Sector Strategy Note                         financial management assessment)                    CPPR
N                \.  HIPC Tracking study                  /
Improving Service Delivery stud
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /   rority Survey III
Country Assistance                                                                                PER
Evaluation                * CFAA~~~~~~ bidng                                       * ocationa Tranintn   trate
/  v               /                         )on PROB
Burkina Fas's                           20000 BudgIdt 22002Budget                                                                                                                2003 Btdge
Budeet Cycle
tune 2000            Nov 2000               Aug. 2001             Nov. 2001              March 2002               Nov 2002                March 2003
CAS and PRSP                                                                                        PRSP                                             CAS
Timetable                        PRSP                  CAS                                        Progress                                         Progress
Report                                          Report
|EHtPC  ||PRSP|
Com pl                                          Progress
Point                                          Report
Pr.npsed IDA
PRSC Support                                                               PRSC                                            PRSC It                                          RSC I1
$43 M                                           $35 NI                                           S40 M
Key Policy and                                                                                                                                                1. Pv blic Sector Reform
Institutional Reforms                               I. Public Sector Reform                             I. Pablic Sector Reform                               Strengthening program budgets and
Strengthening program budgets and                  Strengthening program budgets and                     the M TEF. improving service delivery,
the MTEF, improving service delivery,             the MTEF, improving service delivery;                   promoting participation; strengthening
promoting the national Good                         improving budget execution and procurement;           the judiciat system
Governance Plan; strengthening                     strengthening audit functions
budget management capacity                         2. Pro-poor sectoral policies
2. Pro-poor setoral policiesEducation: continued support of the
2. Pro-poor sectoral policies                      * Eduication supporting the int plem enotation         mlmnainoth  is  hs   fh
EducatiPn-r increasing access                     of the first phase of the Ten-Year Plan;o             Ten-Year Plan; increasing enrolm ent
in rural areas; decentralizing the hiring         lowering the cost of education to the poor             and literacy rates
of teachers; introducing innovative                  H ealth: supporting the in plem entation of         * Heajth: continued support of the
teaching schemes                                  the first phealth   TenoY ear Plan; towering              plem entation of the first phase of
Health: defining sectora] strategy and           the cost of health care to ihe poor                   the Ten-Year Plan
actin pans~vro.din   d.-t~ -dig      .Rural Development: supporting                         * Rurai DevelOVIT1get Further
supporiting institutional reforms                  inding    refrms; providing  dequate                  liberalization of the cotton sector.
* Rural Devcloom eat: strengthening                funding for the rural roads program                   providing adequate funding
capacity; assessing the efficiency of              * Enere: supporting the rural                         for rural roads
public expenditures                                electrification program                                  Energ: supporting the Ten-Year
Least Cost Investment program;
promoting interconnection with
neighboring countries; continued
support of the rural electrification program



B.    Lessons from Past Adjustment Operations
54.   The Bank has supported efforts to improve budget management and governance in Burkina Faso
through several operations (PID, SAC I, EMRSO, SAC III). Their outcomes were considered satisfactory.8
Lessons learned from these operations and incorporated in the design of the proposed PRSC program are
as follows:
55.    Timing. External financial assistance is more effective when provided at the start of the
Government's fiscal year, so that the support is known in advance to be available and can be used as a
basis for making budget management more predictable. SAC III was released in late December 1999 and,
although the credit was partly used to finance the end-of-year financial gap, a large proportion of the
funds was available to the Government at the beginning of its fiscal year 2000 and included in budgetary
planning. Although PRSC I is being provided in the middle of the Government's fiscal year, PRSC 11 and
PRSC III would be timed to fit better with the budget cycle.
56.   Focus. Given both the fungibility of public resources and the nature of adjustment lending, it is
more appropriate to focus on the Government's systems to manage the overall use of resources than on its
specific use of Bank funds. This points to the need for a sound knowledge of the country's public
financial management arrangements. PER issues have been at the heart of our dialogue since the mid-
1990s. A CPAR was recently completed and preparation of a CFAA that builds on the Government's
PRGB is under way.
57.   Long-Term Approach. Transition to a more effective budget system is a long-term process. It
requires continued Bank support-both intellectual and financial-over an extended period, within a
partnership with more predictable Bank financing, aligned with the country's own fiscal cycle and
procedures.
58.   Capacity Building and Knowledge. Changes in Bank assistance to Burkina Faso over the next few
years-for instance, the progressive shift toward more consolidated programmatic support, debt relief
through the HIPC initiative, increased lending to social sectors-will emphasize the importance of
effectiveness in the government institutions that manage these transactions, while reducing the relative
importance of tracking individual Government and Bank projects as a means of fiduciary assurance.
However, precisely because government institutions will play an increasingly important role in providing
assurances on the use of Bank funds, the Bank's efforts will aim to assure that the Government itself can
design and carry out programs of institutional reformn and training needed to build its own capacity. The
Bank will therefore need to continuously improve its knowledge of Burkina Faso's public finance
management arrangements through: (i) more systematic coverage and increased frequency of fiduciary
analytical work; and (ii) the use of information available from other intemational organizations-the IMF,
IFAC, IASC, and INTOSAI-that issue standards, codes, and guidelines with respect to accounting,
auditing, and financial management.
59.   Reporting and Auditing. By law the Government's annual accounts must be audited by the Cour
des Comptes (supreme audit institution) and submitted to Parliament every year, and it is now current in
this cycle. While auditing capacity must still be strengthened, this process is improving transparency and
accountability in the use of public funds. These audited accounts shed light on the overall financial
8 See Implementation Completion Reports nos. 20725, July 19, 2000 (EMRSO) ; 21555, December 27, 2000 (SAC
111) ; and 21853, May 29, 2001 (PID).
21



management performance of government institutions, including the poverty-focused programs that
underpin the justification for this credit. The design of future Bank work should aim to reinforce the
dissemination of this ex-post reporting.
C.    Collaboration with Other Donors
60.   The Bank will continue to work closely with the IMF to support the Government's efforts to
strengthen public finance management9. A draft fiscal module of an IMF Report on the Observance of
Standards and Codes (ROSC) was prepared in June 2001 and an action plan for improving transparency
and accountability was discussed with the authorities and adopted. The Bank will also work with other
donors to ensure consistency in the country policy dialogue, and a division of labor in lending and
nonlending services. In education, for example, the Bank is taking the lead in the reform effott and in
basic education, while some bilateral agencies are focusing more on physical rehabilitation of schools and
secondary education; in health, the Bank is taking the lead in advising the Government on the preparation
of the ten-year reform plan, with other development agencies complementing these efforts through
physical investments and specific thematic programs. In transport, the Bank is not contemplating new
operations in main road network development, but will support maintenance and rural road development.
On judicial reform, the Bank will work in parallel with others donors to help the Government finalize its
action plan but the EU will take the lead in supporting the implementation phase. On public finance
management issues, in addition to its own analytical work, the Bank has relied on studies carried out by
other donors in the framework of the implementation of their capacity building and technical assistance
projects (France's Projet d'appui aux administrations financieres et economiques, the EC's Projet de
reforme de la gestion budgetaire, and UJNDP's Projet d 'appui a la gestion economique). The priorities for
the Bank's assistance program vis-a-vis those of other donors have been determined through our country
dialogue with the Government, nonlending services, and intensive consultations with all devellopment
partners during preparation of the PRSP and the CAS.
V.    THE PROPOSED CREDIT (PRSC I)
A.    Rationale for and Objectives of PRSC I
61.   The proposed credit is grounded in the principles of the Development Committee Paper and the
recent Interim Guidelines on PRSCs' spelling out the process by which the Bank customizes its country
support. As recommended there, preparation of this operation started with Burkina Faso's own vision,
with the June 2000 PRSP setting out the country's poverty reduction strategy and the priority public
actions it expects to take to achieve its goals. Using knowledge from country-based economic and sector
work, the Bank and the Fund provided a Joint Staff Assessment that validated the adequacy of 13urkina
Faso's poverty reduction strategy, the Government's commitment to implementing it, and its capacity to
do so. In turn, the PRSP fed into the November 2000 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and the PRSC
process, which are well synchronized (see Annex 2).
9 The current PRGF program was adopted by the IMF Board on 09/10/1999. It covers the period 1999-02.
10 Supporting Country Development: World Bank Role and Instruments in Low- and Middle-Income Countries
(DC/2000-19), September 8, 2000; Interim Guidelines for Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSC), Operations
Policy and Country Services, May 31, 2001.
22



62.   The general objective of the November 2000 CAS is to support the Government's efforts, as
described in the June 2000 PRSP, to achieve sustained high growth rates, to reduce the high incidence of
poverty, and to improve the nutrition, health, and education of the rural population, which constitutes the
largest group among the poor. The CAS has three specific objectives: (i) supporting policies and
programs aimed at improving the supply side of the economy to allow for sustained, broad-based and
export-oriented growth; (ii) improving public finance management to ensure that government revenues
are mobilized without distorting the modern sector of the economy, and (iii) ensuring that the allocation
process and public spending effectiveness goals result in special emphasis on social services.
63.   Consistent with the CAS, the proposed credit will help Burkina Faso meet its external financing
gap, and support sectoral policies consistent with efficient resource allocation and accelerated sustainable
growth. These policies are essential to a comprehensive poverty reduction strategy. Indeed, by providing
external financing to Burkina Faso, this credit will contribute to the implementation of the PRSP's
expenditure program. Although the additional resources saved from the debt reduction under the HIPC
Initiative (0.6 percent of GDP in 2000 and 1.4 percent of GDP expected in 2001) are allocated through the
2001 finance law, which is consistent with the programs included in the PRSP, the cost of Burkina Faso's
ambitious poverty reduction program and the uncertainty over the short-term aftermath of the new CET
make it clear that the Governmenfs spending program will need donor financial support. It is important to
note that, even though this credit would be delivered in the middle of the Government's fiscal year, it has
already been included in the voted budget.
64.   PRSC I will help the Government achieve better outcomes in the management of public resources
by: (i) strengthening program budgets linking allocations to specific sector objectives, strategies, and
action plans; (ii) improving service delivery in selected line ministries; (iii) strengthening the fiduciary
framework to promote accountability and transparency in the use of public funds, including external
assistance; and (iv) strengthening the Government's capacity to track and manage public expenditure
efficiently.
B.    Design and Sequencing
65.   The proposed PRSC I would be the first of a planned series that will be prepared annually within
a rolling, three-year horizon, depending on country performance and pending Board approval. It would
support a subset of the Government's poverty reduction program, building on such achievements of
previous adjustment operations as maintenance of macroeconomic stability and sustained improvement of
budget formulation and execution. Because the PRSP is mostly an expenditure program targeting specific
low-income social groups, the proposed credit focuses on assessing and improving budget management
for the 2001-2003 period.
66.   The design of this PRSC represents the beginning of a definite shift in the way IDA will support
growth and poverty reduction in Burkina Faso, progressively moving from specific IDA projects to
broader support of Government programs and institutional capacity to help the Burkinabe authorities
manage all public resources more efficiently. The PRSC supports a Government strategy, which includes
budget reform and key policy reforrns in all sectors. Bank involvement in the preparation of program
budgets in key ministries would be an element of the strategy for achieving the objectives of the credit. In
that sense, a successful PRSC process will require extensive involvement of staff in sector units and a
careful consideration of the interface between sector-wide approaches/sector investment programs and
PRSCs in specific sectors. Indeed, the move to a multisectoral approach makes it imperative that Bank
teams be allocated sufficient resources to carry out the analytical work needed for good policy dialogue.
23



67.   The time horizon of the proposed PRSC series corresponds to the PRSP and CAS periods. To the
extent feasible and practicable depending on country performance, all PRSCs would be phased to fit in
with the Government's annual budget cycle and cash management plan. PRSC I would be provided
contingent on up-front completion of a set of priority reform measures and government actions that
demonstrate satisfactory progress with Burkina Faso's budget management agenda for poverty reduction.
The prior actions of PRSC I are based on measures to improve fornulation and execution of the budget
for 2001, which is the first year of implementation of the PRSP. Each of the two subsequent PRSCs will
build on PRSC I, as shown in the preliminary policy matrix discussed with the Burkinabe authorities
(Annex 7). To ensure consistency in the medium-term budget reform program for poverty reduction,
indicative prior actions for PRSC II and PRSC III will be formulated and agreed on with the Government,
drawing on the progress benchmarks laid out during negotiation of PRSC I. Subsequent PRSCs will also
depend on satisfactory overall progress against the agreed social and structural benchmarks and CAS
triggers and a continuing satisfactory macroeconomic framework.
C.    Key Elements of the PRSC Program and Links with the PRSP Agenda
68.   The proposed Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) is the first in a series of programmatic
structural adjustment credits designed to support the implementation of Burkina Faso's PRSP. (iiven the
emphasis in the Burkina Faso PRSP on public expenditures as the main tool for PRSP implementation,
the focus of the PRSCs would be the reform program to improve the effectiveness of public spending, as
well as the transparency and accountability of public resource management.
69.   The PRSP acknowledges that economic growth is the single most important factor influencing
poverty, and that macroeconomic stability is essential for high and sustainable rates of growth. Hence,
macroeconomic stability is a key component of Burkina Faso's poverty reduction strategy. To safeguard
macroeconomic stability, it is essential that the government budget, including Burkina Faso's poverty
reduction action plans, be financed in a sustainable, non-inflationary manner. The PRSC will provide
resources to do so and to insulate the poor against the impact of shocks to the economy. Policies to ensure
macroeconomic stability will be designed and monitored primarily in the framework of the IMF PRGF
program.
70.   The proposed PRSC I has two major components:
* Public sector reform and governance, which is considered in the PRSP to be the pre-requisite for
effective implementation of the poverty reduction strategy; and
*  A set of pro-poor sectoral policies and institutional changes focusing on basic education, health, and
rural development. The effectiveness of these policy changes presumes that the macroeconomic
situation remains consistent with the medium-term macroeconomic framework articulated in the
PRSP. Some parts of this program, especially those with significant macroeconomic implications are
being supported by a parallel Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) program supported by
the IMF.
1. Public Sector Reform and Governance
71.   Improved public sector performance and better governance are central themes of the PRSP.
Recognizing that progress in creating an efficient, accountable, and transparent public sector and
24



governance structure is a necessary first step for effective implementation of the PRSP action plans, the
authorities have recently given additional emphasis to this area. The proposed PRSC will address poverty
reduction objectives by focusing on: (i) budget management rules and Government restraint (budget
formulation, the budget execution mechanism, budget reporting, and establishing a satisfactory fiduciary
framework covering procurement, financial management, and auditing); and (ii) reforms to improve
sectoral strategies in key domains of the PRSP, and to improve public service delivery, monitoring and
evaluation. By emphasizing the quality of the overall expenditure program, the PRSC aims at the most
efficient use of all public resources: Government resources, as well as donor funding for projects and for
budget support. Yearly performance indicators of overall budget management and sector program
execution will serve as milestones for the continuing dialogue between the Government and its partners.
When discussing each PRSC, trigger areas will be agreed with the Government as a basis for negotiating
the subsequent credit.
72.   Each PRSC in the series will be based on a review of progress achieved regarding both the
content of the budget and the budget reform program. The process will include a review of progress in the
execution of the agreed budget and in the implementation of agreed budgetary reforms, based on an
analysis of performance indicator results and satisfactory implementation of triggers. It will also include a
review of the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) underpinning the PRSP. The extent to
which the overall budget has contributed to development objectives and its consistency with the poverty
reduction strategy will be assessed. The review will focus both on sectors receiving special emphasis and
on cross-cutting and systemic issues. The first PRSC capitalizes on past achievements with respect to
budget reform, as well as on the findings of past Public Expenditure Reviews (PERs) and the PRGB (see
para. 39). It is provided on the basis of a series of up-front actions recommended by these studies,
including the adoption of a Medium-Term Expenditure Framework consistent with the PRSP and the
timely completion of budget execution reports (see para. 102).
73.    The PRSC provides financial assistance to help Burkina Faso implement the PRSP on the
understanding that the resource allocation mechanism is supporting efficient, poverty-oriented
expenditures in all sectors. Program budgets, the main instruments for budget formulation and execution,
play an essential role, since they provide the linkage between sector objectives, sector strategies,
expenditure programs, and the framework for monitoring and evaluation. The need for capacity building
in that setting is considerable and assumes Government ownership, which has been the case in Burkina
Faso for a number of years. The role of Bank sector teams in assisting the Government in the preparation
of sector strategies, program budgets, and implementation mechanisms is also essential, although it
implies a change from the project approach, including more advisory and analytical work.
74.   The amount of support proposed is related to the financial gap, after taking into consideration
similar support envisaged by other donors. The financial gap itself is determined taking into consideration
the quality of the proposed expenditure program, implementation capacity, and macroeconomic
soundness, as assessed in conjunction with the IMF. The fiduciary framework is emphasized in order to
increase transparency, and thus ensure that all public resources (including financial assistance from
donors) are properly spent. This emphasis complements the demand for transparency and broad sharing of
information with the public on the strategies, the expenditure program, and the results achieved in
implementing them.
25



2. Pro-Poor Sectoral Policies Associated with the PRSC
75.   In preparing the 2000 PRSP, the Burkinabe authorities benefited from high quality background
analytical work, and related consultations, on long-term development plans for three sectors (health,
education, and rural development). These sectors were identified as priority areas covered by the action
plan of the PRSP. The proposed PRSC will support some of the key reforms and the public expenditure
program necessary to implement the first phase of these long-term development plans.
(i) Basic Education
76.    Issues. Over the past decade, Burkina Faso has given priority to the development of basic
education and has made some important progress in enrollment and in the reallocation of expenditure
toward priority objectives. Between 1990 and 1999, the share of children enrolled in primary school
increased from about 30 to 41 percent, with 34 percent for girls. New first-grade admissions doubled over
the period. Opportunities increased for urban as well as for rural children, since 70 percent of all new
classrooms were constructed in rural areas in recent years. Inter-provincial disparities were reduced, as
the proportion of provinces not reaching the average gross primary school enrollment rate decreased from
73 percent in 1996/97 to 58 percent in 1998/99.
77.    These improvements are encouraging, but continued and intensified efforts are required to
maintain and further boost these trends. Worldwide, Burkina Faso remains one of five countries being the
furthest away from achieving universal basic education. It also ranks among the twenty poorest countries
in the world in terms of per capita income. Like all countries with low primary enrollment, the main
challenge is to expand quality services to rural children and girls, who form the majority of the out-of-
school population. While about three-quarters of children in urban areas are enrolled in school, only about
35 percent of rural boys and 26 percent of rural girls are enrolled. A further rise in enrollment will
necessarily mean increasing the attendance of rural children, and of girls in particular.
78.    Total public expenditure on education averages only 2.8 percent of GDP in 1999, which is below
the average of 4.0 percent of GDP for the 20 HIPC Initiative African countries. This shows how
necessary it is to allocate a larger share of public resources to the education sector by utilizing HIPC
resources. There is also a considerable scope to improve performance within the existing resources, as
unit costs remain relatively high. In primary schooling, public expenditure per student is equivalent to
0.24 times GNP per capita, compared with 0.15 for other French-speaking African countries. In 1999, the
average primary teacher salary was 6.8 times GNP per capita, down from 8.2 in 1995, but still higher than
the average for Africa (3.6) and for Asia and Latin America (2.5). In addition, the cost of producing one
graduate of primary school is twice as much as it should be, owing to the high rates of dropout and
repetition. Considering all children who enroll in primary schools, only 60 percent reach the sixth and
final grades. Completion rates are only 49 percent in rural areas and 41 percent for rural girls. School
completion is lowest in the North, particulaTly among boys, and highest in the Southwest. Repetition rates
average 15 percent in grades 1-5, and more than 40 percent in grade 6, indicating an excess demand for
access to lower secondary school. The pattems are similar at other levels of education.
79.    Government's Medium-Term Program. The recent progress in primary education was achieved
through two main strategies. First, additional resources were allocated to basic education to support the
expansion. The share of the education budget allocated to basic education increased from 45 percent to
26



about 58 percent between 1990 and 1999.11 The availability of schools also increased as 800 classrooms
per year were constructed over the past several years. Second, the early implementation of the first phase
of the 2000-10 Basic Education Plan ensured a substantial reduction in expenditure per student in basic
education, which facilitated the expansion. Adopted policy measures included a policy to hire
instituteurs-adjoints exclusively, whose average salary is 40 percent lower than that of the instituteurs; a
substantial use of double-shift classes to cover up to 40 percent of students in urban areas; and an increase
in the use of multigrade teaching to include 25 percent of students in less densely populated areas.
80.    Burkina Faso has also made efforts to address demand-side constraints. In this regard, the
proportion of schools with drinking water and sanitation increased to 47 percent and 45 percent,
respectively. The number of literacy centers more than doubled since 1990, and their outreach was greatly
improved, expanding from 90 villages in 1990 to 4,500 villages in 1997/98. To further enable the
effective participation of poorer populations, the govemment lowered the cost of education to families by
providing a set of textbooks to be used free of charge, and by encouraging greater participation in parents'
associations. To lower the opportunity cost for poor families and enable girls to attend schools, the
Government (a) built schools closer to villages to reduce physical distance; (b) provided resources to the
female parents' association (Association des meres d'elves) for income-generating activities, thus
reducing the domestic workload of their daughters; and (c) developed school-lunch programs in rural
areas. Parallel to the efforts made to reduce costs to poor families, Burkina Faso also implemented
measures to improve the quality of education by (a) supplying on a regular basis sufficient textbooks to
schools to allow for one set of books to be shared by two students; (b) upgrading teachers' skills,
particularly in rural areas; and (c) introducing (on a pilot basis) bilingual education in rural areas.
81.    The strategic formulation of the Government's medium-term reform program for education is
consistent with the PRSP, and adequate resources are being secured to meet the goals of the sector. The
program  will cover fornal primary education, adult functional literacy, out-of-school children, and
institutional development. The program will give priority to rural and under-served areas, and will target
women and the rural poor as well as out-of school children. It seeks to develop basic education at low
recurrent cost (particularly salaries), and to take advantage of the decentralization process in order to
transfer more decision making at the local levels. With respect to basic education, the authorities propose
for the period 2000-10 to (a) increase the national primary school enrollment ratio from 42 percent in
1999/2000 to 70 percent, and to 55 percent for rural children and girls; (b) increase the adult literacy rate
from 18.4 percent to 40 percent through the combination of expanded access to primary education and the
provision of adult literacy programs delivered by NGOs and other local organizations, targeting rural
women in particular; and (c) provide alternative, community-based schooling opportunities for out-of-
school children aged 9-15. The detailed costs of the priority programs and their financing (mainly from
HIPC Initiative assistance) is presented in the PRSP (Tables 13 and 14, and Appendix Tables 3-6).
82.    How the PRSC will Support the Education Sector. The objectives can be achieved only if
quality programs that attain desired learning outcomes are cost-effective and affordable to the poor, if the
increased allocations to basic education are sufficient to support these objectives, and if the resources
allocated are more effectively used. Key levers to support these objectives include lowering the cost of
education to the poor and girls, controlling expenditure at other levels of education, cutting the unit cost
" The percentage of higher-education students receiving scholarships was cut from 98 percent in 1988 to 35 percent
in 1997, and the total number of scholarships awarded to secondary school students was reduced by 65 percent.
Public school secondary students now pay registration fees, most of which are kept by schools to cover the cost of
pedagogical materials.
27



of education, and reducing repetition. The reform program associated with the proposed PRSC I will
support the Government's expenditures programs in education, and help implement the key measures
specified in para. 107 and in the Policy matrix. More specifically, the measures associated with PRSC I
and subsequent credits focus on the following:
*  increasing access to education in rural areas by expanding the number of schools-equipped with
running water and separate sanitary facilities for girls-in the 20 rural provinces with the lowest
coverage, by ensuring that schools utilize multigrade teaching where population density is too low to
provide for six separate grades, and by expanding double-shift teaching in urban areas where there is
excess demand;
*  lowering the cost of education to poor families by continuing to provide books free of charge,
ensuring sufficient allocations to rural schools to cover basic materials and operating costs, and
making the payment of parent-teacher association (PTA) fees voluntary in the 20 provinces with
enrollment rates below the national average, while increasing government allocations to those schools
to compensate for the loss of school income;
*  decentralizing the hiring of teachers to the district level starting September 2001, with a starting
salary similar to those of the community schools;
:  introducing innovative teaching schemes to reduce repetition rates;
*  and maintaining primary education's share of total education expenditure at 60 percent in the medium
term, while increasing education's share of total government expenditure from 21.6 percent to
23 percent in 2003.
83.    To reach a common basis for monitoring performance, the indicators adopted in the framework of
the SPA exercise on Reformulated Conditionality will be used. The MEBA is expected to use the same
indicators at the regional and provincial levels and to integrate them in the planning and monitoring
manual already prepared by the ministry. This approach should help all the actors at both the central and
decentralized levels to work on the same basis, which will make it easy to produce syntheses by level.
(ii) Health
84.   Issues. Poor health and nutritional status, combined with high levels of fertility, are both a cause
and a consequence of poverty in Burkina Faso. They exacerbate poverty by diminishing productivity,
reducing household income, and increasing health expenditures. A number of factors associated with
poverty, in turn, contribute to ill health and poor health outcomes. Female illiteracy, high fertility, poor
nutrition, low access to clean water and sanitation facilities, food insecurity, poor household dietary
practices, and limited access to basic social services all undermine the well-being of Burkina Faso's poor.
For example, mortality of children under five was nearly twice as high among women with no education
in comparison to those with secondary or higher levels of education (19998/99 DHS).
85.    Persistently high levels of fertility and mortality have resulted in an annual population growth rate
of 2.8 percent. These demographic patterns have produced a youthful age structure, with about half of the
population under 15. The high dependency ratios impose a severe burden on an underemployed labor
force and greater demands on already overextended social services. In 1999, life expectancy was
estimated at 54 years, infant mortality at 105 per 1,000 live births, child mortality at 219 per 1,000, and
28



the total fertility rate was about 6.8 births per woman. Burkina has fared somewhat worse on average in
comparison to other countries in the Africa region.'2 Moreover, these averages mask large gaps in health
outcomes between the poor and non-poor with the largest differentials in infant mortality and
malnutrition.
86.   Communicable diseases in Burkina affect disproportionately the poor, setting in place a
downward spiral of illness and poverty. With an overall HIV prevalence rate of 7.2 percent (1997),
Burkina Faso has the second highest HIV/AIDS infection rates in West Africa. Illness and death from
AIDS leave affected households and orphans severely impoverished and, in some cases, socially isolated
and unprotected. The rapid rise in HIV infection rates is being paralleled by a worsening TB epidemic,
with the number of annual new cases tripling in the last 12 years, primarily due to the rise in HIV-
attributable TB. HIV infection rates amongst vulnerable groups are dramatically higher (e.g. STD clinic
patients: 16-42 percent; commercial sex workers: 15-60 percent). The age groups most affected are adults
in their most productive years and young girls. Large gender disparities in HIV prevalence rates highlight
the unequal nature of relations between males and females, and the importance of addressing these
concerns in an effort to stem the spread of AIDS in Burkina.
87.    Government's Medium-Term Program. Improving health outcomes, redressing inequities, and
addressing gender issues are thus critical elements of Burkina Faso's poverty reduction strategy. During
recent years significant progress has been made in the health sector in a number of critical areas:
*  Qualitative improvements have been introduced in the provision of basic health care services,
including immunization, management of childhood illnesses and prenatal care. Factors contributing
to these improvements include a well functioning drug procurement and distribution system, which
has facilitated access to drugs at health facilities; basic, specialized and refresher training of health
personnel; increased involvement of communities and beneficiaries in management of peripheral
services; and construction/rehabilitation of health infrastructure.
*  Additional financial resources have been mobilized for the health sector. Public funding of health
care has increased from about 7 percent of the total government budget in 1993 to somewhat less than
14 percent by 1999. In total, the country is estimated to spend roughly US$13 per capita, of which
households account for over 60 percent, reflecting the high and possibly unsustainable financial
burden of health care on individuals. To assist households to better cope with the high cost of health
care a number of community-financing schemes are emerging in Burkina. These risk sharing
schemes are expected to increase access to health care for the poor and to create incentives for health
facilities to produce higher quality services.
*  A strategic framework for health sector development is also emerging with the adoption of a new
health sector policy in September 2000 and the adoption of a 10-year health sector development plan.
The preparation of the plan, which was done in a participatory fashion, represents a positive
achievement of the Ministry of Health. The Plan national de developpement sanitaire: 2001-2010
(PNDS), including the first three year tranche (Plan triennal de mise en oeuvre du PNDS 2001-2003)
aims to: expand coverage; improve quality and utilization rates; strengthen control of communicable
and non-communicable diseases; reduce transmission of HIV; develop human resources; enhance
12 Averages for sub-Saharan Africa are as follows: a fertility rate of 5.4 children per woman, life expectancy of 50.4
years, infant mortality at 91 per 1,000 live births, and under 5 mortality of 151 per 1,000.
29



efficiency of health services; mobilize additional resources for the health sector ; and strengthen
institutional capacities.
*  Since the emergence of the first AIDS cases in 1986 there has been a growing political commitment,
an intensification of the scope and range of interventions, and a substantial growth in the level of
financial resources being channeled for the HIV/AIDS program.  The plan was prepared in a
participatory fashion, which augurs well for ownership and sustainability. The main strategies
include: strengthening preventive activities, epidemiologic surveillance, quality of care, and multi-
sectoral responses to the epidemic. The plan provides a sound basis for donor assistance.
*  Significant headway has been made in the launching and testing of reforms for enhanced sector
effectiveness, most notably: the conceptualization of a decentralization framework, operationalization
of health districts, promotion of a performance-based management approach with a focus on results
and on sound financial management and accounting practices.
88.    An assessment by the Bank's health team of the technical soundness and financial feasibility of
the PNDS points to a number of opportunities for further fine-tuning:
(i) Aligning priority actions more explicitly with the three strategic areas of the Government's PRSP,
which emphasize the need to address and correct inequities in health status and in utilization of health
services between the poor and non-poor, notably: (a) granting priority to interventions addressing the
health problems of the poorest and most vulnerable groups; (b) protecting underprivileged groups through
policies designed to make essential health care affordable; and (c) supporting the participation of users
and communities in the development and management of health care activities.
(ii) Improving allocative efficiency by: (a) prioritizing investments at the primary care level and
investments in selective referral services (e.g., obstetric care), postponing other secondary infrastructure
investments to a second phase; and (b) prioritizing activities to improve the quality and efficiency of
ongoing programs (with an emphasis on the minimum package of services and outreach activities), and
postponing efforts to expand coverage possibly to a second phase.
(iii) Fleshing out the reform measures in the PNDS/PTD in order to provide a conducive environment
for further development of the health sector. This would include the following types of measures:
mainstreaming the performance-based management approach initiated with IDA support; promoting a
strategic management approach by strengthening institutional capacities and financial management
processes; fostering improvements in human resources by reassessing issues related to deployment,
utilization and career development of health staff; continuing to promote a sector-wide approach within a
decentralized framework. The first three years of the 10-year plan are expected to be a transitory phase
towards the institutionalization of these reforms.
89.   How the PRSC will Support the Health Sector. The IDA-funded Health and Nutrition Project
played a pivotal role in introducing and supporting the decentralized, performance-based management
approach. This project is expected to close on September 30, 2001, shedding concerns about the
continuity of these reforms. While the long-term sustainability of the health sector is linked to the overall
public finance reform, it is important to sustain the modest gains under this innovative scheme that has
involved all health districts in Burkina. Under this scheme, health districts have benefited from direct
channeling of IDA funds for the financing of district action plans. The scheme has provided liquidity and
flexibility in the use of funds; encouraged an environment of accountability; and resulted in increased
30



institutional capacities. Two recent evaluations have found important improvements in key performance
indicators (e.g. immunization coverage rates, utilization rates), as shown in Annex 3.
90.    The extension of this innovative scheme under the PRSC I would serve two purposes: (a) sustain
and improve this successful experience, while continuing to work on broader reform issues related to
public sector reform and decentralization; and (b) serve as an interesting model to policymakers working
on public sector reform and decentralization. The Govemment program on which this credit is based will
thus contain the following measures:
*  Provide adequate funding in the 2001 budget to allow a continuation of quarterly disbursements to
health districts and regional health directorates to "top off' financing from other sources (public
budget, donors, cost recovery, etc.) to carry out their plans, maintain quarterly financial management
and performance reports, and carry out random financial audits.
*  Define a strategy and elaborate a plan for institutionalizing this process, by channeling public funds
and donor financing directly to health districts, building on the experience and lessons of the Health
and Nutrition Project.
*  Provide technical and financial assistance for supporting institutional reforms, including (i) securing a
new legal status for the "Comite Directeur", that would render it a permanent structure of the Ministry
of Health; and (ii) institutionalizing a "secretariat" to the Comite Directeur, which animates the whole
performance-based management process (a role currently undertaken by the project management unit
of the Health and Nutrition Project).
  Introduce additional performance indicators to encourage health districts to give a greater priority to
communicable disease control (e.g. AIDS, TB, malaria) and to better track progress in improving
client satisfaction with the quality and cost of health care. To measure client satisfaction, support
would be provided in incorporating health related questions into household surveys, introducing exit
interviews at health facilities, and organizing focus group discussions and beneficiary assessments.
*  Provide technical and financial support for the execution of public expenditure reviews (PERs) that
would assess the efficiency and equity of spending in the health sector. These expenditure reviews
would include public and private spending, at both the central and decentralized levels. Routine
PERs would be complemented by incidence analysis to track impact of public spending on poverty.
Data from household surveys and expenditure reviews would provide the analytic underpinnings for
reassessing the financial burden on households, and to determine the need for revising user fees and
exemption policies.
(iii) Rural Development
91.   Issues. The agricultural sector is the main source of employment and income for about 80 percent
of the Burkinabe population and generates important growth and employment linkages with the
potentially dynamic non-agricultural rural economy. The sector is made up of around 1.3 million farm
households, largely subsistence oriented, with limited access to services, markets and basic
socioeconomic infrastructure. The sector is also the principal source of growth for the economy-
contributing 32 percent to GDP and 60 percent to export eamings in 1998.
31



92.    Performance of the agricultural sector was erratic in the 1980s, but maintained an average annual
growth rate of four percent. During the first half of the 1 990s, growth was lower (around 2 percent), but
increased in the post devaluation period, to more than 6 percent, largely as a result of a tremendous boom
in cotton output and livestock exports. Real GDP growth reached 4 percent in 1995, 6 percent in 1996,
4.7 percent in 1997, and 6.2 in 1998. In spite of Burkina Faso's strong macroeconomic performance
since the 1994 CFA Franc devaluation, the incidence of poverty, particularly in rural areas, remains high.
Results from the Government's 1998 Living Standards Priority Survey indicate that 51 percent of the
rural population live below the poverty line versus 16 percent of the urban population. With a population
of 11.9 million growing rapidly, intense pressure is being placed on the country's limited arable land
resources. It is clear that intensification and technological change will be necessary to restore and increase
the productive potential of the resource base. Yet policy, infrastructure, and institutional constraints often
discourage farmers from making the investments necessary to increase productivity.
93.    Government's Medium-Term Reform Program. Burkina Faso's poverty reduction strategy gives
high priority to rural development and its engine-agricultural growth-not only because this is where
the bulk of the poor reside, but also because this is where the productive potential resides, where linkages
with the local economy are strongest, and where growth can yield the largest impact on both rural and
urban poverty. Priorities for the rural sector include:
* Support measures to open the economy, increase competitiveness and improve access to markets
(both domestic and export) - for agricultural products, for farmers, and for agro-enterprises;
*  Increase the productivity  of rural assets (labor and  land) through  health, education, the
conservation/renewal of natural resources, and capacity building;
- Modernize and intensify agricultural and livestock production systems by improving rural service
delivery (including financial and risk management services) and investing in rural infrastructure
[hard (particularly feeder roads) and soft (capacity building for producer organizations, export
associations, and other professional groups)];
*  Encourage the institutional reform necessary to refocus the role of the State on policy, regulation,
planning, monitoring and the provision of demand-driven public services, consistent with a
decentralized rural development strategy in which the resources and decision-making power in the
hands of the rural population; and
*  support the rural decentralization process by building the local capacity and decentralized institutions
needed for rural communities to plan, execute and manage their own development process.
94.    The Government's 10-year agricultural strategy (2001-2010)13 in support of these priorities is
organized around the following five themes:
(i) Modernization of Agriculture: The main goal is to induce a fundamental shift from a low input,
low output agriculture into a higher input (improved seed, water management, fertilizer, farm equipment),
higher yield agriculture, in order to increase labor productivity and incomes.
13 This strategy is described in the Document d'Orientation Strategique (DOS), the Plan Strategique Operationnel
(PSO), and the Lettre de Politique de Developpement Rural Decentralise (LPDRD).
32



(ii) Soil Fertility: The main goal is to restore the nutrient content of the soil, a prerequisite for
promoting agricultural intensification and land productivity increases.
(iii) Food Security: The main goal is to increase the production of local staples in which the country
has a comparative advantage (millet, sorghum, maize) through better research and extension (service
delivery) and to create an incentive framework favorable to the increased involvement of the private
sector in the transport, storage and marketing of cereals.
(iv) Support to Producer Organizations: The main goal is to strengthen producer organizations so that
they can: (i) participate in the formulation of sector and sub-sector policies and in the choice of public
investment priorities; and (ii) organize the provision of key services and inputs to their members.
(v) Institutional Development: The main goal is to create public sector institutions that are well
adapted to the redefined role of Government, i.e. a role refocused on policy, regulation, planning,
monitoring and the provision of demand-driven public services, consistent with a decentralized rural
development strategy in which the resources and decision-making power are in the hands of the rural
population.
95.    Efforts to improve the productivity of the rural sector are at the core of the country's accelerated
equity-based growth and poverty reduction strategy. Characteristics of the rural sector'4 indicate that in
addition to market reform, judiciously chosen public investment is needed to accelerate rural growth.
Specifically, public expenditure on (i) rural infrastructure (hard - e.g. roads, communications; and soft -
e.g. commodity associations with the networks/know-how to compete, market information systems), (ii)
technology generation, and (iii) institutional development/reforn to improve public and private service
delivery will be necessary.
96.    In an era of limited and shrinking resources, the challenge will be to increase the relevance and
cost effectiveness of public sector expenditures. Past efforts to tackle the policy, institutional and
technological constraints facing the rural poor have been centrally driven and sectorally focused. As a
result their effectiveness has been low. Decentralized decision-making and economic empowerment of
beneficiary communities. is expected to improve the choice, relevance and cost effectiveness of rural
investments. In addition, deconcentration of sectoral ministries (and engaging in public/private
partnerships where appropriate) will be needed to improve the delivery of public goods and services and
make them more demand-responsive.
97.    Although steps have been taken over the past two years to introduce elements of a demand-driven
and pluralistic extension service, further action is needed to strengthen this approach and develop a
vision/action plan for a restructured agricultural service delivery system. Action is also needed to improve
the cost-effectiveness and relevance of agricultural research including analyses to identify the appropriate
mix of strategic, applied, and demand-driven research, the respective roles of public and private
financing for agricultural research, how it might evolve over time and across commodities, and the
combination of mechanisms needed for sustainable and flexible agricultural research funding.
14 The rural sector is characterized by: (i) a large number of smallholder farmers who are geographically dispersed
and poorly organized; (ii) high exposure to multiple sources of co-variate risks (climate and market-related); (iii)
complex institutional arrangements governing the markets for productive factors (e.g., land); and (iv) numerous
market failures preventing their efficient operation.
33



98.    Finally, more attention must be placed on improving the market-based incentives for productivity
increases and technology adoption. Such market-based incentives include increased market access and
market channel efficiency through: (i) public policy changes (e.g. transport sector reforms tc, increase
competition, legal reforms); (ii) public investment in rural roads, market infrastructure and information
systems; and (iii) public support for market promotion and to develop the private sector capacity for
provision of services to specific market channels.
99.   How the PRSC will Support the Rural Development Sector. In the rural development sector, the
proposed PRSC will focus on the institutional reforms needed to implement the agricultural sector's ten-
year strategy. The reform process can be envisioned in four phases:
(1) Rationalization: The first step in the reform process would be to decide which functions to retain
within the government, which to transfer to the private sector, which to transfer to civil society,
and which to co-produce with either the private sector and/or civil society.
(2) Reorganization: After having sorted out which functions to retain within the government., the next
step would be to determine the best organizational structure in order to perform the remaining
functions most efficiently.
(3) Retrenchment: The third step would be to work out the appropriate manpower levels consistent
with the new mission, goals, functions and organizational structure of the Ministry.
(4) Revitalization: Finally, it would be necessary to implement internal reforms and training
programs in order to strengthen the institutional capacity of Ministry to perform its remaining
functions.
100.  The first PRSC will specifically focus on steps 1-3. Subsequent credits will support the remaining
reform agenda in the rural development sector. The proposed PRSC will strengthen the policy framework
for the action plans to be carried out under the recently approved Community-Based Rural Development
Program or in preparation under IDA programs (e.g., the Ten-Year Basic Education Plan and the
proposed Competitiveness and Enterprise Development Project).
D.    Specific Actions Associated with PRSC I
101.   The detailed medium-term reform program associated with the credit is outlined below and is set
out in the Letter of Development Policy (LDP) and multi-year matrix of policy and institutional reforms.
Specific actions of the PRSC program, and the triggers and performance benchmarks draw from and
elaborate on the PRSP. The stage for this operation has been set by a number of important decisions
already taken and fully implemented prior to Board presentation to demonstrate the Government's
commitment to moving forward with its medium-term development agenda. These decisions affect
actions in the two key components of the reform program supported by the PRSC: (i) public sector reform
and governance; and (ii) pro-poor sectoral policies.'5
1. Public Sector Reform and Governance
15 Macroeconomic stability will be monitored primarily in the framework of the IMF Poverty Reduction and Grow-th
Facility program.
34



102.  The public sector reform  program  associated with this credit aims at improving budget
management rules, stakeholders' participation, and competition in service delivery. Prior to Board
presentation of the Credit, the Government has completed the following actions:
A. Rules and Restraint
*  Adopted a Medium-Term Expenditure Framework for the 2002-2004 period that is consistent with
PRSP priorities;
*  Submitted budget execution reports to Supreme Audit Institution for fiscal years 1996, 1997 and
1998;
*  Adopted laws ("lois organiques") providing for independent supreme institutions: "Cour des
Comptes," State Council, Constitutional Council, and "Cour de Cassation";
* Adopted a work program for the Executive Secretary for Good Governance.
B. Stakeholders' Participation
* Issued the National Good Governance Plan, distributed it to all provincial authorities, and organized
outreach/information workshops/seminars for the benefit of local authorities and civil society;
* Completed and released national accounts for 1994 through 1998.
C. Competition in Service Delivery
- Completed the study on marginal tax rates by economic sector to provide a strong analytical basis to
future policy measures favoring service delivery by the private sector;
2. Pro-Poor Sectoral Policies and Institutions
103.  Sectoral and institutional policies associated with this credit aim at fostering the implementation
of the PRSP action plan in priority policy areas: basic education, health, and rural development. Prior to
negotiation of the Credit, the Government has completed the following actions:
A. Basic Education
*  Adopted an action plan for the recruitment of new teachers in accordance with provisions of the Civil
Service Reform (1998 law on Government reform). The action plan approved by the Council of
Ministers deals with budgetary and organizational implications of the 1998 law as it pertains to the
education sector (division of responsibilities between Government and the regions: financing of
regions, provinces and municipalities; assessment of managerial capacities at the decentralized
levels);
*  Adopted and released an Educational Policy Statement and accompanying action plan for the purpose
of: (i) eliminating the now automatic link between admittance to a TTC and civil service
employment, this measure to be applied to student teachers entering the TTCs on or after September
1, 2001; (ii) creating a new category of teachers to be recruited at the regional level and to have a
status similar to that of teachers in community schools - i.e., they will no longer be part of the civil
service but their status shall be clearly defined and officially recognized; and (iii) expanding the
community school program in such a way that most teachers can henceforth be recruited at this level;
35



* Adopted a new organization chart for the Ministry of Basic Education (MEBA), in conformity with
the Education Policy Statement;
* Adopted and implemented the Government's Plan to increase the efficacy of primary schooling by
consolidating the system for promoting pupils from one grade to the next, limiting grade repeats, and
introducing new pedagogical methods;
B. Health
*  Adopted the National Health Policy Document (Document de politique Sanitaire Nationale);
* Adopted the 10-year health sector development program (Plan National de Developpement Sanitaire
- PNDS);
*  Adopted the 2001-05 National H1V/AIDS and Sexually Transmitted Infections Strategic Plan and the
2001 Emergency HIV/AIDS/STI Plan.
C. Rural Development
* Completed the public expenditure review in the rural development sector to assess benefit incidence,
efficiency, and pro-poor targeting;
* Adopted the draft bill on water management.
E.    Progress Benchmarks and Triggers for PRSC II and III
104.  Subsequent credits (PRSC II and PRSC III) will be subject to satisfactory country performance.
In moving from one PRSC to the next in the series, if progress is found to lag behind expectations, a
judgment will be made on whether to adapt the medium-term program, to reduce the amount of the
subsequent PRSC operation, or to delay the next operation until further progress has been made.
105.  PRSC I. The reforrn program to support Burkina Faso's continued implementation of its poverty
reduction strategy under PRSC II will draw from the findings of analytical work in the health, transport,
energy, and rural development sectors, as well as continuing work in the financial management and social
areas. The Bank will continue to work closely with Burkina Faso's development partners to help ensure
coordinated dialogue and funding efforts for the implementation of the PRSP. In addition to satisfactory
macroeconomic policies and overall program implementation, PRSC II will depend on substantial
progress in strengthening public sector governance and assuring that sector policies and institutions focus
increasingly on poverty reduction. The precise prior actions for PRSC II will be fornulated and agreed at
the time of PRSC II negotiations, drawing on the medium-term program set out in the Letter of
Development Policy and policy matrix for the proposed operation (see Annexes 6 and 7). At this time, it
is envisaged that critical policy and institutional reform measures as a basis for PRSC II will likely
include the following issues:
1. Public Sector Reform and Governance
A. Rules and Restraint
* Adoption of a budget bill for 2002 based on ceilings set with reference to the 2002-2004 MTEF and
PRSP priorities;
36



*  Completion of program budgets consistent with PRSP objectives in key ministries (including
Economy and Finance, Infrastructure, Secondary and Tertiary Education), performance indicators
included;
*  Regionalization of payment order issuance through appointment of <<delegated payers) and
 secondary payers >> within ministries to empower regional Government entities;
*  Completion of PER studies (including economic infrastructures, justice, Ministry of Secondary and
Tertiary Education);
*  Satisfactory implementation of the action plan for strengthening the Supreme Audit Institution Court
on the basis of the recommendations of the PRGB and CFAA;
*  Implementation of a program to improve public procedures and capacity in the area of procurement:
1. Adoption of a Procurement Procedures Manual;
2. Redefinition of the roles of the two major departments (Direction Gnerale de la Cooperation
and Direction Centrale des Marches Publics) and adoption of capacity building measures;
3. Revision of the general rules for public procurement to make them consistent with international
standards of transparency and efficiency;
4. Facilitation of SME access to public procurement;
5. Verification that 50 percent of public procurement will have been subject to competitive
procurement practices as required by law and that the largest contracts will be subject to public
audit;
-  Submission of budget execution reports for fiscal years 1999 and 2000 and their remittal to the
Supreme Audit Institution;
B. Stakeholders' Participation
* Adoption of transparent mechanisms for allocating resources managed at the district level (e.g.,
posting budgets allotted to each health facility in public places in the districts).
C. Competition in Service Delivery
e  Completion of the study of opening up cotton sector to several operators.
2. Pro-Poor Sectoral Policies and Institutions
A. Basic Education
* Implementation of the Educational Policy Statement and of Governmental Action Plan in the area of
basic education;
* Implementation of a mechanism for subsidizing school supplies in the 20 poorest provinces.
B. Health
*  Introduction of policy and institutional measures, rendering all preventive services at the primary
health care level free of charge;
*  Introduction of appropriate measures to reduce the profit margin on essential drugs sold by CAMEG
with a view to reducing the cost of drugs to users.
37



C. Rural Development
*  Liberalized seed cotton marketing (auction sales and lifting of export ban);
*  Developed action plans in other production streams and priority programs in agriculture and livestock
(cotton, fruits and vegetables, livestock/meat, cowpea, oilseeds);
*  Restructuring, by end-2001, of rural development operations under implementation, in order to
harmonize their objectives, implementation strategies, content, implementation and management
procedures and monitoring/evaluation with those defined in the LPDRD and PRSP.
106.  PRSC III. Beside satisfactory implementation of the PRSP, progress in priority sectors
(education, health, and rural development), and maintenance of a stable macroeconomic framework, the
prior conditions to be met would have to do primarily with actions to strengthen extemnal audit
performance within the public sector in Burkina Faso. These would include keeping the Supreme Audit
Authority work program on schedule (e.g., review of the Government's 2001 budget execution report to
Parliament), paying special attention to the auditing of public procurement agencies (e.g., Faso Baara),
and implementing a capacity building program within the Supreme Audit Authority.
107.  Supervision of PRSC I will go hand in hand with the preparation of PRSC II. It will involve, in
particular, mid-year reports on the financial execution and performance results of program budgets in
those ministries using program budgeting. An additional important element in PRSC II preparation will
be a careful assessment of the measures outlined above, which are a continuation or extension of reforms
the Government has committed to in the context of this credit. Supervision of PRSC I and preparation of
PRSC II will proceed in close collaboration with other donors and consistent with the PRSI' review
mechanism.
E.    Monitoring of Program Outcomes and Progress Benchmarks
108.  Reforming Conditionality in Burkina Faso. At the initiative of the European Commission, the
Strategic Partnership with Africa (SPA), a forum of all donors providing quick-disbursing assistance to
Africa, began in 1996 to discuss ways to enhance the effectiveness of these aid programs by reforming
conditionality. In 1997, a shadow "test" program was started in Burkina Faso to explore how to change
the aid relationship and policy-based conditionality, in ways that would enhance the reform program, and,
as a result, the effectiveness of aid. This approach is geared mainly toward enhancing Government
ownership of the policy identification, monitoring, and evaluation process; and toward enhancing the
effectiveness of aid by monitoring programs on the basis of measurable and previously established
performance indicators. The idea is for all donors and lenders to reach consensus on a series of performance
indicators for Government activities in key sectors. Those indicators are then used as the basis for decisions
regarding disbursement of financial assistance-preferably in the form of program support.
109.  The Test found very little overall relationship between aid flows and policy change and
confirmed some of the problems observed in many developing countries: first, project finding appeared
to be fungible-that is, donor financial support for a project the Government would otherwise have
financed from its own budget freed up resources for the authorities to carry out other activities. In a
country like Burkina Faso where over 80 percent of the investment budget is externally-funded, donors
thus financed not the project they appeared to pay for but the marginal project the Government chose to
undertake-usually for political purposes. Second, even projects with high rates of return were not always
relevant in the larger context of economic growth and poverty reduction in Burkina Faso, because they
could not be scaled up or replicated. Third, the use of policy-based conditionality as an incentive for
38



reform weakened ownership and the same conditionality tended to appear over the years in successive
Policy Framework Papers.
110.  Working closely with the Government and other donors, the Bank is now moving through this
PRSC and follow-up credits to take account of these findings. Specifically, conditionality is being
streamlined and made more focused in order to make it more effective while providing maximum scope
for the Government's own policy decisionmaking. Another key element of the new approach is to focus
strongly on monitorable results on the ground. Under this approach, policy reforms that are critical for a
program to achieve its macroeconomic and poverty reduction objectives will be discussed with the
authorities and included in the Letter of Development Policy (as under this credit) to ensure national
ownership, while triggers or benchmarks for moving forward with Bank support are fewer and include
key results indicators of the PRSP (see Table 3).
111.  PRSC Performance Indicators and Benchmarks. For each major policy domain and in addition
to monitoring indicators from the SPA test, the Bank has, with the authorities, key stakeholders and
donors, elaborated a detailed monitoring framework, based on agreed-upon indicators. These indicators
are drawn from the PRSP. The main monitoring instruments would be the reviews of the structural reform
program, carried out every six months by the Bank team in coordination with the IMF, and the public
expenditure reviews, together with selected economic and sector work, and household surveys.
112.  The medium-term reform program supported by the proposed PRSC series has been laid out at
the outset in the Government's Letter of Development Policy (LDP) for the first credit (Annex 6). It is
reflected in the multi-year matrix of policy and institutional reforms with monitorable indicators and
progress benchmarks for each loan. The corresponding multi-year framework of Bank support is also
articulated at the outset. It includes a notional (non-binding) multi-year envelope consistent with the
November 2000 CAS, with individual PRSCs phased annually in line with the Govemment's budget
cycle. The conditionalities of the first credit in the series have been agreed up-front. Each subsequent
PRSC will build on the previous ones and its conditionalities will be formulated and agreed when
negotiated, drawing on progress benchmarks laid out at the outset as part of the medium-term framework.
Each individual loan in the series will depend on satisfactory progress, based on a review by staff, and on
continued satisfactory macroeconomic framework evidenced by a PRGF program on track.
39



Table 3: Key Outcomes Envisaged by End of Current PRSC Program  (2003)
.                                     TYPE OF MONITORING INDICATOR
A vtREA             Policy-based                                              Results
InputlOutput                     Outcome                                  Impact
Appropriate fiscal
stance/budget deficit   .    Real GDP growth (4-6        *   Consumption of the poor
Overall Macro   *   Stable real exchange            percent)                   *   Lower number of people below the poverty
Framework             rate                     *   Real income per capita           line: about 40 percent by 2003 (down from
.   Low inflation rate (less      (about 2 percent a year)         45.3 percent in 1998)
than 3 percent)
.   Increased accountability of public entities for
.    Social sector ministries'                               achievement of performance objectives,
budget execution rate                                        spending of public resources, procurement of
budge exectison ralte   *   Share of budget effectively      goods and services-as indicated by results
and analysis of results      reaching the most               of evaluations done through the INSD
Public Sector         set by the ministries         decentralized departments.   .   Increased value for money in public
and              .    Completion of year-end    *   Reduced gap between unit        procurement and contracting in agencies-as
Governance            budget execution reports      pfices of a selected number     evidenced by unit costs meeting the market
(lois de r.glement) and      of products obtained by         test
transmission to the          public bidding and those    .   Increased transparency and enhanced civil
Supreme Audit Court          obtained by the private          society capacity to monitor public sector
(Cour des Comptes) and       sector                           performance, as indicated by the quantity,
to Parliament.                                                quality and timely of information, pertaining
.                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~to public sector performnance and
=_   _                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~expenditures, available to the public
Education                    *   Gross enrolment rate for     *   Higher literacy rates (from 19 percent in
.    Average cost per child       girls/total enrolment rate,      1999 to 25 percent in 2003)
in primary school            from 34 percent in 1999 to   *   Higher literacy rates among women
50 percent in 2003
.   Gross enrolment rate in
least privileged rural areas
Health
.   Essential drugs          .   Vaccination coverage ratio
breakdown rate (less         (in percent)                *   Decrease in infant mortality (under 80 per
than 8 percent)                 - BCG: from 60 in 1999        1000 live births in 2003, down from 105 in
*    Cost of medical              to 90 in 2003                    1999)
interventions in first         - DTCP3: from 42 in      .   Decrease in matemal mortality (under 400
Pro-Poor              level health centers          1999 to 70 in 2003              per 100,000 live births in 2003, from 484 in
Sectoral                                              - Measles: from 53 in         1999)
Policies                                            1999 to 70 in 2003         *   Lower mortality rates in poor families
- Yellow fever: from 50
in 1999 to 70 in 2003
*    Rate of use of health
facilities : number of new
contacts per person and per
year in first level health
centers (CSPS, CMA)
Rural Development
*   Loans granted to         *   Higher fann mechanization   *   Increased and diversified rural income
farmers                      rate                       .    Reduced vulnerability to agricultural
.   Network of rural roads    *   Higher cereal production        activities
F.       Credit Administration
113.    Credit Amount and Financing,  The Borrower will be the Government of Burkina Faso.  The
proposed amount of IDA financing is US$45 million equivalent, considered necessary to finance the 2001
gap and to support implementation of the PRSP action plan.
114.    Tranching. The credit will be disbursed in one tranche of SDR 36 million (US$45 million), to be
released at credit effectiveness, anticipated to be in August 2001. The reasons for disbursement in a
single tranche are set out in paras. 65-67. The credit closing date would be June 30, 2002. The current
40



PRSP cycle will likely involve two other single-tranche PRSCs (each of which is expected to be about
US$40 million), to support implementation.
115.  Disbursements. The credit will follow IDA's simplified disbursement procedures for adjustment
operations.16 In other words, credit proceeds will be made available for disbursement upon effectiveness.
The Borrower will open an account with its Central Bank. Upon notification of release of the tranche, the
Association will deposit the proceeds in this account when requested to do so by the Borrower. If, once
deposited with the Central Bank, withdrawals are used for ineligible purposes (i.e., to finance goods or
services on the standard negative list), the Association will require the Borrower to refund the amount to
the credit account.
116.  Auditing. The Association reserves the right to seek an audit of the credit account.
117.  Implementation. The reform program funded by this credit will be implemented by the Ministry
of Economy and Finance. Because this is a one-tranche operation, overall program implementation and
macroeconomic performance will be reviewed in the context of preparation for the following credit, as
well as through bi-annual reviews of this credit, and jointly with the IMF through the assessment of the
implementation of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper.
118.  Environmental Aspects. The Interim PRSC Guidelines provide that "the appropriate treatment of
environmental issues in PRSCs depends on their coverage and focus. If the PRSC is a structural
adjustment credit, the requirements of Operational Directive (OD) 8.60 apply. When relevant, staff
review environmental policies and practices in the country, take account of any relevant findings and
recommendations of such reviews in the design of structural adjustment programs, and identify positive
and negative linkages between the various reforms proposed and the environment. If there are negative
linkages, staff devise specific measures as appropriate to counteract the possible negative effects, or
explain how mitigation is otherwise being achieved.17"
119.  This proposed PRSC I is a structural adjustment credit and the corresponding procedures apply.
Accordingly, environmental aspects have been taken into account in the appraisal of the Credit. In
particular, the appraisal mission reviewed Burkina Faso's environmental policies and practices with the
aim of identifying priority measures that can be supported under this credit and future PRSCs as well as
to confirm that there are no negative linkages between the reforms proposed under PRSC I and
environmental outcomes.
120.  The program supported under this Credit strengthens Burkina Faso's capacity to implement its
existing Environmental Law of 1997. Given the country's limited experience in enforcing such
regulations and low technical capacity within the Ministry of Environment and Water, provisions under
the Environmental Law have not always been applied systematically. Following discussions with the
Ministry of Environment and Water and consultation with two other donors involved in environmental
assessment work in Burkina, two types of activities have been identified for support during PRSC I: (i) a
vigorous sensitization campaign (information, education, and communication) on environmental
assessment regulations and the associated implementation decree, and (ii) training of sixty trainers in and
16 Operational Memorandum: Simplifying Disbursements under Structural and Sectoral Adjustment Loans, February
8, 1996.
17 Interim Guidelines for Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSC), Operations Policy and Country Services, May
31, 2001.
41



outside the public sector, and upgrading the skills of environmental assessment practitioners in the key
ministries under programs supported by PRSC 1. In the framework of the reform program associated with
PRSC II, the Bank will help the Ministry of Environment and Water clarify and align the institutional
responsibilities and the administrative procedures of the directorate and the agency responsible for
enforcing environmental assessment requirements.
G.    Benefits and Risks
121.  Benefits. By focusing on economy-wide policy and institutional issues like broad public sector
reform, the proposed PRSC is expected to help move the poverty reduction program forward in two ways.
First, in the short run, the credit will help to foster macroeconomic stability and create the conclitions for
accelerating growth, by providing quick-disbursing assistance in a context of slow growth and lower-
than-expected government revenues. Second, the credit will help poverty reduction by improving the
targeting and effectiveness of public expenditure to benefit the poor, and actually channeling public funds
to more accountable local spending agencies. The credit will also stimulate analytical work to facilitate
this (e.g., incidence analysis in social sectors, costing of poverty reduction programs, identification of
financing gaps, the PER process, the rolling MTEF, and the CFAA). By improving the availability and
efficient use of public resources for basic public services, and by stressing delegation, accountability and
transparency in budget management, the reform program associated with this credit should improve both
the quality of these services and access to them. The credit will also help the poor by strengthening
Burkina Faso's national capacity to manage public resources-including exterDal assistance-and the
institutional framework through which it does so. Line ministries and local-level spending agencies are
expected to become more proactive in budget formulation and execution, which will progressively create
the network, mechanisms and skills for more effective budget management across the country.
122.  Risks. The main risks to this credit and the reform program that it supports come from three
sources: vested interests, fiduciary and institutional. First, the reforms are being implemented in a
sensitive and evolving country context. Vested interests of individual constituencies and regions may seek
to exert influence on the composition and execution of the budget which may adversely atfect the
implementation of the program. Second, as spelled out in the CPAR and in the Government's PRGB,
despite the Government's strong continued efforts to strengthen financial management and procurement
systems, some fiduciary risks with regard to the use of public funds remain. Corruption could lead to
economic losses in the form of lower tax revenues and misappropriation of public resources. Finally,
continued weaknesses in implementation capacity, particularly in line ministries may hamper
improvements in service delivery that are intended under the credit.
123.   These risks are mitigated to a substantial extent by the design and content of the credit and
continued support from the Bank and other external partners for the overall program. All specific reform
measures supported by this credit have already been taken as prior actions before Board presentatioll.
Building on these measures, the multi-year program of budget reforms envisaged under the PRSCs will
be based on steady progress against monitorable performance benchmarks and completion of critical up-
front actions by the Government before Board approval of each of the subsequent credits. To reduce
fiduciary risks, implementation of the Government's plan to curb corruption and address deficiencies in
the fiduciary framework is central to the reform program supported by this and subsequent PRSCs (see
Annex 1, Section IV). Support for these efforts is also provided through other Bank lending, such as the
Community-based Rural Development project and through non-lending services, such as the completion
of the CFAA. Continued policy dialogue, technical assistance, advisory services and analytical work are
part of the Bank's support to address the risk posed by inadequate implementation capacity. In addition,
42



two Bank lending operations aimed at building capacity (Public sector management, Basic Education) are
currently being prepared to accompany the series of PRSCs. Other donors (AfDB, EC, France) are also
directly supporting efforts at capacity building in key ministries through their own assistance programs.
VI.   RECOMMENDATION
124.  I am satisfied that the proposed credit complies with Articles of Agreement of the Bank and I
recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By: Shengman Zhang
Washington, D.C.
July 26, 2001
Attachment
43



Annex I
Page I of 15
PUBLIC SECTOR FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE'
The Medium-Term Reform Program
I.    INTRODUCTION
The Burkinabe authorities have greatly improved their budgeting and expenditure practices over
the past five years. But despite recent improvements in revenue collection, Burkina F'aso
continues to be faced with an inadequate tax structure. Fiscal revenue is highly dependent on a
relatively high level of tariffs, which discriminates against exports and undermines the efficiency
in the allocation of public resources. In the context of the implementation of the West African
Economic and Monetary Union's (WAEMU) common external tariff, the Government has
designed a reform program which includes: adopting measures aimed at shifting fiscal resource
away from trade taxes and strengthening tax administration by broadening the tax base through
curtailing tax and customs duty exemptions (in accordance with evolving WAEMU policy, in
particular the envisaged regional harmonization of the investment code); reducing excessive
regulation of private entities and adoption of preferential schemes; and strengthening tax
administration through the computerization of all custom revenue collection offices.
Progress has been most notable on the expenditure side. A comprehensive Public Expenditure
Review in 1995 and a public expenditure incidence analysis in the education, health, and water
sectors in 1996 and 1997 contributed to the understanding of equity issues, although not of the
rationale for or the efficiency of expenditures in those sectors. Following the adoption by the
Boards of the Bank and the Fund of the HIPC Decision Point document in November 1997, the
authorities intensified their efforts to improve budget management as a key component of their
poverty reduction strategy. The Government  defined some basic budgetary monitoring
indicators; adopted a program for regular consultations between the Bank and the authorities on
all budgetary issues; and established a multi-year program to enhance staff capabilities on public
financial management matters. An interministerial committee was set up to coordinate subsequent
work on public expenditure management. Since then, the PER process has been internalized and
various studies are released every year, and their key recommendations are included in the budget
guidelines of the following fiscal year. Studies carried out in the framework of the 2000 PER
focused on the effectiveness of public resources in the education and health sector, the
institutional framework of the public investment program, and deconcentration of the budget
system. The 2001 PER study focused on public expenditures in the rural development sectors. A
rolling-three year Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) is prepared and updated
annually since 2000. Program budgets have been adopted for all ministries in 2001.
With respect to reform of public administration in Burkina Faso, a restructuring process has been
going on since 1992. The ministry responsible for the civil service has initiated systematic and
forward-looking talks with several representatives of civil society and key players in the public
administration in order to lay the foundations for a comprehensive reform. National conferences on
the comprehensive reform of the civil service provided an opportunity to discuss and enrich draft
texts that were subsequently adopted by the National Assembly. Essentially, they comprise laws
establishing the forms of intervention and a distribution of spheres of competence between the State
and other stakeholders in Burkina Faso's development; the legal framework governing employment
in the civil service and government officials; and rules governing the creation, organization, and
management of government bodies. To them should be added the decree on rules for drawing up
' This annex has been prepared jointly by a team comprising Africa PREM and Financial Management and
Procurement specialists. It presents recent performance on public reformn management issues in Burkina
Faso, and the broader medium-term program envisaged by the Government.
44



Annex I
Page 2 of 15
public sector program and progress reports in the public administration and the decree ordering
generalized use of manuals of procedures and performance charts in all branches of the civil
service.
The PRSP presents some guiding principles to improve public sector financial management and
governance:
* adopting a more comprehensive approach to public finance management to ensure that public
funds from all sources are managed according to a clear set of consistent and transparent
rules, and in conformity with internationally accepted good practices;
* reducing Government intervention and discretion in economic activity;
* making the Government more accountable by increasing participation of electoral bodies,
civil society groups and the private sector in policy design, policy implementation, and
monitoring;
* and ensuring a more efficient use of public revenues by focusing public policy evaluation on
results on the ground.
The PRSP approach is consistent with the Bank's agenda for public sector financial management
and governance which requires at minimum three elements: effective public financial
accountability relationships between a country's governing bodies and its executive management;
ethical practices and transparent decisionmaking fostered by stakeholders' participation; and
increased value for money through the adoption of mechanisms that promote competition in
service delivery2. Following these principles, the strategy developed by the Burkinabe authorities
for the 2001-03 period will address deficiencies at four levels of public sector management: (i)
budget formulation; (ii) budget execution and procurement procedures; (iii) budget monitoring
and performance evaluation; and (iv) internal control, auditing, and external oversight. The
reform program under implementation has been developed through analytical work and a
continuous dialogue between the Government and the donors, including the IMF, AfDB, EC,
UNDP, France, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Denmark, Germany, and the World Bank3. Specific
issues related to public sector financial management and governance, the Government's reform
vision, actions taken to-date, expected future actions related to the Government's medium-term
reform agenda, are summarized below, and comprise the details of the program in this area
associated with the PRSC.
2 The PRSP framework for improving public sector management and governance is fully consistent with
Bank guidelines presented in Reforming Public Institutions and Strengthening Governance: A World Bank
Strategy (November 2000); and Clean Government and Public Financial Accountability, Operations
Evaluation Department (Summer 2000).
3 The policy dialogue on public sector financial management and governance has been both informal and
through formal diagnostic work such as: the background notes of the Government's Plan de renforcement
de la gestiondes dipenses budgetaire (2001), the World Bank Country Procurement Assessment Review
(CPAR, 2000), the first phase of the multi-donor Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA,
2001), the World Bank Report Improving Service Delivery: The Challengesfor Public Management
Reform (2001), the World Bank's Note Technique sur le systeme budgetaire du Burkina Faso (1999), the
IMF's Draft Report on Observance of Standards and Codes: Fiscal Transparency module (2001), and the
World Bank Implementation Completion Reports for Structural Adjustment Credit 111(2000) and Public
Institutional Development Project (2001).
45



Annex I
Page 3 of 15
I.  PUBLIC EXPENDITURE MANAGEMENT
A. Budget Formulation
Issue: The use of the budget as a major toolfor implementing the PRSP has improved but is
still limited.
The process of preparing the budget and program budgets in Burkina Faso is considered tD be
fairly open. During the first phase of the process, which has occurred every year in June., the
spending ministries prepared their budget requests without having any precise indications of the
amount of resources to be allocated to their sectors. Cross-sectoral negotiations, brokered by the
Ministry of the Economy and Finance (MEF), occurred only later. This rather arbitrary procedure
failed to encourage the preparation of realistic sectoral programs, and led to a situation in which
the work done to prepare draft sectoral budgets was called into question during the third quarter
of the fiscal year.
While current expenditure as a share of GDP declined from 12.7 percent of GDP in 1994 to 10
percent in 1998, spending identified in the "capital" budget in the health, education, and
infrastructure sectors had risen markedly. The Public Expenditure Reviews (PERs) conducted
between 1995 and 1997 suggested that the Government needed to restructure its public
expenditures significantly, not only to ensure adequate funding of priority sectors, but also to
enhance the efficiency of public outlays. Another major weakness was the inappropriate
coordination between capital and current expenditures in budget preparation (the capital budget
was prepared entirely on the basis of a public investment program presented as a collection of
individual projects for which external funding was available).
Box 2: Assessing the Tracking of Poverty-Reducing Spending in Burkina Faso
In late 2000 a joint World Bank/IlMF team undertook preliminary assessments of the quality of central government public
expenditure management systems in 25 HIPC countries. The findings are summarized in terms of 15 key public expenditure
management issues as shown the following Table. which also describes the specific benchmarks adopted for each. Burkina Faso
was one of the only two countries in the sample with "little upgrading required", as it meets II out of the 15 items on the list.
Source: Trucking of Poverty-Reducing Public Spending in Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIP`Cs), INIF and World Bank, March
27, 2001; and Burkina Faso: Expenditure Accountability-The Operational Agenda, World Bank, Africa Region, 2001.
Result
Bl.DGE'r MANAGEMENT                                     Benchmark   Burkina        versus
Faso     Be m
COMPREHENSIVENESS 
1. Budget reporting follows GFS definition of consolidated general govemment         A            C
z  2. Govemment activities are not funded through extra-budgetary sources                A           A         Meets
3. Budget outrun data (levels, functional allocations) are
_  quite close to that of the original budget                                            B           B         Meets
4. Budget includes capital and current expenditure financed by donors                 A           B
CLASSIFICATION
5. Budget classified on an administrative, economic, functional basis                 B           B         Meets
;  6. Poverty related expenditure clearly identified in the budget                       A           A         Meets
PROJECTION
7. Multi-year expenditure projections integrated into the budget cycle                A           A         Meets
INTERNAL CONTROL
O  8. Stock of expenditures arrears in percentage of total expenditure,
little accumulation of new arrears over past year                                     A           B
Q  9. Intemal audit is active                                                            A           A         Meets
a4  10. Tracking surveys supplement intemal control                                      B           B         Meets
X RECONCILIATION
_    1. Fiscal and banking reconciliation                                            A           A          Meets
REPORTING
ZO 12. Intemal budget reports from line ministries/Treasury received
within four weeks of the end of the relevant period                                   B           A         Meets
O  13. Functional classification is reflected in the in-year budget reports              A           A         Meets
0
. FINAL AUDITED ACCOUNTS
14. Closure of the accounts occurs within two months after the end of the fiscal year  A          B
15. Audited account presented to the legislature within 12 months of the end of the fiscal year  B  B       Meets
46



Annex I
Page 4 of 15
Government's Reform Vision/Aeenda. Reforms in 1999-2000. The Government recognized that
improving public expenditure management, enhancing public expenditure efficiency, and
increasing resource allocations for the social sectors - in line with policy priorities agreed under
the 1997 HIPC document - required new instruments. The budget guidelines for fiscal year 1999
introduced the notion of a program budget as a method of preparing draft budgets in six key
ministries.
To strengthen programming and management of public expenditure, the Government also started
developing a Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF), which would be used as a tool to
integrate the process of sectoral decisionmaking and setting budget allocations according to
government priorities. Under the MTEF, sectoral policy decisions would be integrated within a
three-year rolling macroeconomic and public expenditure framework.  The Government's
objective was to implement the MTEF for the health and education sectors in 1999.
Agendafor 2001-03. Three elements are crucial in preparing a go6d budget and program budgets,
namely: (i) a macroeconomic framework in which overall budget expenditure envelopes are
clearly indicated, (ii) strategies that make it possible to bring about policy changes and
modifications both to programs already underway and to new programs; and (iii) an accurate
assessment of constraints created by previous decisions (e.g., programs already underway, service
provision already voted upon, etc.).
In close consultation with the Bank, the work program established by the Government for the
next three years incorporates refinements to the methods of preparing program budgets, which are
henceforth consolidated into a MTEF. Financial envelopes serving as the foundation for the
preparation of program budgets must be based on a detailed expenditure framework, broken down
by sector and by source of financing. This framework should include all sectors, even if program
budgets are prepared only in certain sectors. The activities involved in preparing an appropriate
budget and program budgets include: preparation of a macroeconomic framework; estimation of a
baseline scenario reflecting the cost of programs already underway; estimation of sectoral
envelopes (i.e., preparation of the MTEF); and a review of these envelopes by decision-makers.
Actions Already Taken
*  Adoption of a Medium-Term Expenditure Framework for the 2002-2004 period that is
coherent with PRSP priorities and deemed satisfactory by the World Bank;
*  Issuance of guidelines for preparation of the 2002 budget bill extending program budgeting to
five additional ministries (Agriculture, Livestock, Environment, Justice, Transportation),
based on a satisfactory 2002-2004 MTEF;
*  Institution of program budgeting in those five ministries, provided training for their budget
officers, and completed the public expenditure review in the rural development sector in the
process of drawing up program budgets.
Future Actions (Subsequent PRSCs).
* Adoption of a budget bill for 2002 based on ceilings set with reference to the 2002-2004
MTEF and PRSP priorities and deemed satisfactory by the World Bank;
*  Preparation of program  budgets in key ministries (including Economy and Finance,
Infrastructure, and Secondary and Tertiary Education), performance indicators included;
47



Annex I
Page 5 of 15
*  Reflection of key recommendations from the PER studies carried out in the process of
program budget preparation in the 2002 budget;
*  Implementation of a training program on budget preparation, implementation, monitoring and
evaluation.
B. Budget Execution and Procurement
Issue: Recent PER studies have emphasized the weak execution of the budget and its adverse
effects on the Government's poverty reduction strategy.
Budget Execution. The budget execution cycle in Burkina Faso is divided into the stages usually
found in systems based on the French model; i.e. commitment (engagement), verification
(liquidation), Ministry-to-Treasury payment orders (ordonnancement), and actual payment
(paiement). Budget implementation procedures vary according to the nature of the expenditure
and the source of financing. Expenditures are committed and made by the credit administrators
of the spending ministries, but an ex-ante control is exerted by the Ministry of Finance at each
stage of this circuit. Procedures for the purchase of equipment (Title III of the government
budget) are particularly intricate. Each expenditure commitment is subject to a prior stamp of
approval from the Financial Controller. Once the payment documents have been prepared by the
credit administrators, three controls are exercised by departments within the Ministry of Finance
(i.e., a stamp from the Financial Controller on the payment documents, issuance of money orders
by the Budget Directorate, and verification by the Treasury when it receives the money orders.)
These controls, combined with a high degree of centralization of management within the
spending ministries, hamper budget implementation for departments located at the regional level.
The multiplicity of stages requiring prior approval and verification for each operation creates
delays, inefficiency, and errors at all levels. Fortunately, this cumbersome expenditure processing
circuit under Title III only affects 13 percent of non-personnel and non-debt expenditures. In
contrast, the expenditure cycle under Title IV (transfers) or Title VI (expenditures made by
projects) is much more flexible. Outyear expenditures in multiyear projects, most of which are
linked to externally-financed projects, can be affected by financing availability constraints in the
outer years.
In principle, spending ministries are supposed to keep their own sets of accounts and payment
orders, but the quality of these records is often unreliable. Until recently, reconciliation of the
accounting entries recorded by the central agencies (i.e. the Controle Financier, the Directorate
General of Budget, and the Directorate General of Treasury), and the exchange of information
among them, was inadequate. Furthermore, records of the civil service salary bill and
expenditures made from external sources of financing were not entered in the Treasury's
accounts. Reports on budget execution are based exclusively on data provided by the MEF. In the
absence of a reliable information system, these procedures are cumbersome.
Procurement Issues. In collaboration with the Government and other donors, the Bank released a
Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) on Burkina Faso in November 2000, the
objectives of which were to evaluate the country's legal and institutional framework for public
procurement. The report concluded that the current procurement system in Burkina Faso is on the
whole soundly configured, although there are a number of shortcomings that derive from two
sources: (i) weaknesses and gaps in the legal and institutional system; and (ii) weak enforcement
of procedures and failure to make the best use of existing mechanisms.
The March 1996 General Procurement Decree set out the basic regulations governing the public
procurement system. It was supplemented by four ministerial orders (Arretes). But the various
48



Annex I
Page 6 of 15
texts did not map out the procurement cycle clearly. There are no explicit procedures for
identifying the players or specifying actions in a way that would ensure that all procurement
contracts can be prepared, put up for tender, evaluated, signed and approved within the bid
validity deadlines.
Procurement planning follows no established methodology, and is not linked to the projected
budget execution schedule. Because the various stages of procurement are not programmed,
actions are not initiated in time, or they are taken at the last moment after exemptions have been
sought to negotiate contracts directly. The lack of proper programming means that the
government has little opportunity to benefit from economies of scale, through swifter and more
efficient contracting (such as the use of order contracts with or without a commitment covering a
period of 12 months or more). Procurement programming and management capacity need to be
strengthened significantly at the central administration level, and even at the project level, where
performance frequently falls short.
Current procedures are cumbersome and time-consuming because they involve two centers of
responsibility (the Directorate General for Cooperation, DGCOOP, and the Central Procurement
Directorate, DCMP). The present fragmentation of responsibilities and the lack of centralized
procurement data also tend to drag out the contract approval process. While the DCMP has made
a major effort to standardize and publish model documentation for implementing the General
Procurement Decree, further work is needed to standardize bidding documents so as to speed up
procurement procedures and make them more efficient.
Although the General Procurement Decree provides penalties for breach of procurement
regulations, whether by public officials or bidders and contractors, these sanctions are far from
comprehensive. In 1999, only one company was penalized for submitting false documentation: it
was suspended from bidding for two years. The Decree needs to be revised to deal more
explicitly with corruption and to provide clear penalties against it in the <( Sanctions >> section.
Moreover, there is no regular audit of domestically funded procurement procedures, either by
government bodies (Office of the Government Inspector General, Office of the Prime Minister,
Office of the Inspector General of Finance of the Ministry of Economy and Finance) or by
independent agencies such as the Cour des Comptes (formally Chambre des Comptes).
On the institutional side, the DCMP appears to have a conflict of interest, as a member of the
Contract Awards Commissions (Commissions d'Attribution des Marches) and the Internal
Contract Awards Commissions (Commissions Internes d'Attribution des Marches), and this
compromises its independence as a regulatory and supervisory body. Moreover, its organization
is inadequate for the proper distribution and specialization of its functions. There is no convincing
rationale for the involvement of the DGCOOP in the procurement cycle, which merely duplicates
that of the DCMP. Moreover the DCMP and the Commissions alike lack adequate operating
budgets. Finally, there is a lack of technical and information resources for monitoring
procurement procedures and contract execution. The DCMP has no software package for tracking
the progress of a procurement procedure.
Government's Reform Vision/Agenda. Reforms in 1999-2000. In 1996, the Government adopted
a new financial information management system (circuit de la depense), which has provided a
computerized and reliable monitoring tool. The system is currently being extended to integrate all
stages and files of the public spending process-especially a single reference file for the wage
bill. In addition, in order to strengthen public expenditure management further, the MEF has
introduced an integrated recurrent non-salary public expenditure monitoring system, developing a
49



Annex I
Page 7 of 15
new public accounting system, and begun comprehensive monitoring of public expenditures,
including debt service, investment and salaries.
Convinced that decentralization, if designed well and implemented pragmatically and judiciously,
can be an instrument of increased democratization, because it fosters local initiatives and
grassroots control over the population's elected officials, the Government initiated a process that
resulted in 1998 in the passage of guiding legislation on the subject of the decentralization
currently being implemented. Although a credit delegation procedure was set up in the health and
education sectors, it is not proving helpful in managing all public expenditures efficiently. It is a
procedure that affects commitment only, while the expenditures themselves are still ordered by
the Budget Directorate in Ouagadougou. Decentralization is a difficult task that will take
considerable time. But the Government has begun the process.
In the area of public procurement, major steps have been taken on both the regulatory and
institutional fronts to achieve greater deconcentration and transparency in public sector
procurement, and to initiate a more effective dialogue with the private sector in the interests of its
further development and greater competitiveness. The procurement function was deconcentrated
among ministerial departments, local governments, and public or parapublic enterprises. As a
result, responsibility is now shared between Administrative and Financial Affairs Directorates
(Directions des Affaires Administratives et Financieres, DAAFs) and Planning and Studies
Directorates (Directions des Etudes et de la Planification, DEPs) when it comes to preparing
budgets, programming procurement, drawing up and issuing invitations to bid, receiving, opening
and evaluating bids, awarding contracts, and monitoring them. At the central level, procurement
contracting and supervision is handled by the DCMP in the case of domestically funded contracts,
and by the DGCOOP in the case of those financed with external loans.
Agenda for 2001-2003. Improvement in the performance of the budget system requires that the
spending ministries assume additional responsibilities. This increase in responsibility has two
aspects: first, the ministries must have enough autonomy to manage their budgets (in accordance
with the authorizations approved by the Parliament); and second, the ministries must be held
accountable for their budget management.
(a)    Spending ministries initiating payment orders. Increasing the ministries' share of
responsibility requires that the administration of payment orders be decentralized, and that the
ministries appoint their own "delegated payers" and "secondary payers". This measure would not
affect the authority of the MEF to monitor budget implementation, since the Treasury will retain
ultimate control over total cash spending, if needed in times of severe fiscal crisis. Also, since
budget execution is computerized, the Budget Directorate could stay continuously up to date on
this score. The decentralization envisaged by the Government has the following advantages:
*  It forces spending ministries and/or departments to introduce sound accounting methods,
indispensable for performance monitoring, management controls and audits:
*  The duplication of controls will be minimized;
*  The payment ordering function will be closer to the payment making function, an
improvement over the current situation, in which it is simply an administrative step;
*  The General Budget Directorate (Direction Gene'rale du Budget) will be able to devote its
full resources to preparing the budget and assuring the preparation by Ministries of multi-
year budget programs.
50



Annex I
Page 8 of 15
In the interests of shoring up the authority of the Ministry of Economy and Finance in the area of
budget management, WAEMU guidelines specify that this ministry must be the principal and sole
payment-ordering entity for budget purposes. This requirement need not be an obstacle to the
abovementioned decentralization of payment orders, since these guidelines also provide for a
situation in which "the ministry in charge of finances fulfills its payment ordering responsibilities
through delegated payers at central administration level and secondary payers at regional
department level."
Credits to Regional Government Entities. For effective budget management at the regional level,
it is necessary to ensure that funds are available when needed. This requires particular measures
in the case of the "regional departments" (i.e., the central administration's branch offices in the
regions), given the existing arrangements in Burkina Faso. Expenditures by the regional
departments generally involve small amounts and, if sizeable investments are excluded, can be
exempted from all but ex-post controls.
Consistent with the PRSP medium-term decentralization strategy (see Box I in the President's
Report), the Government plans to set up mechanisms to ensure: (i) immediate availability of
funds; and (ii) ex-post verification of the use of funds when the advance account (regie d 'avance)
is replenished. A system of advance accounts or special accounts managed by the Treasury's
local agents satisfies the need for efficient management of expenditures by the regional
departments, provided that the ex post verification is performed. Such mechanisms will be put in
place under PRSC II and III. Projects currently enjoy a considerable amount of managerial
autonomy. Budgetary unification would have a negative impact if it led to rigidities or blockages
in budget execution. In theory, commitment delegation mechanisms and payment orders can be
equivalent to a system of advance accounts. However, poorly designed or incomplete credit
delegation procedures would not improve the current situation to any real extent. This is why the
Government is planning to establish advance accounts.
In more general terms, since budget reform and decentralization need to advance in parallel, the
Government plans to redraw the lines between the central and the decentralized authorities, and to
strengthen analytical and managerial capacities on both sides. Accelerating this process requires:
(i) continued application of the policy of decentralization with the pragmatism and
progressiveness that have characterized it thus far, in order to allow local governments to
organize themselves to fulfill the expectations of the populace; (ii) adequate financing
arrangements aimed at giving local governments the resources to assume the tasks henceforth
assigned to them, the goal being to avoid having the State's withdrawal jeopardize those basic
social services (especially in education and health) crucial to minimum welfare; (iii) training of
local elected officials in the duties of management, outreach and oversight assigned to them in
connection with decentralization; (iv) establishment of an efficient and impartial local
administration that is sensitive to the population's needs; (v) the participation of institutions of
civil society in local development, in terms of defining goals, the means to achieve them, and the
monitoring of actions undertaken; (vi) decentralized cooperation that is close to beneficiaries
while respecting national development priorities; (vii) enactment of a law to harmonize the
geographic delineation of administrative entities, while also retaining an appropriate level of
decentralization in order to increase the efficacy of interventions, improve citizens' access to
public services, and create an administration truly attentive to the grassroots; and (viii) enactment
of laws decentralizing the management of the State's human, material and financial resources by
granting new powers to the parties vested with operational responsibility.
(c)    Rules on fund transfers. The spending ministries need a certain amount of flexibility to
reapportion their credits among the various budget categories, within the limits of the
51



Annex I
Page 9 of 15
authorizations approved by the Parliament. This flexibility must apply to inputs, i.e., to articles
and paragraphs within a single section. A minister must be free to allocate the ministry's
resources among purchases of supplies and small equipment. On the other hand, resource
allocation among certain sub-sectors under the same ministry may be a matter of strategic policy
considerations, and might require strict rules concerning credit transfer (e.g., the division of
resources between secondary and tertiary education is a policy choice, and must not be altered
during budget execution).
Regarding procurement issues, the action plan derived from the CPAR includes the following
reforms:
* Establishing a single system for procurement contracting and supervision by concentrating
these responsibilities within the Central Procurement Directorate;
* Revising the Procurement Code and preparing a manual of mandatory procedures that must
be followed by all parties involved in the procurement contracting and supervision cycle;
* Strengthening the institutions and agencies involved in public procurement in terms of their
human resources and logistics so that any reform will be effective and sustainable,
particularly with respect to the deconcentration and decentralization of procurement
procedures;
Facilitating access to procurement contracts for small and medium-scale enterprises, thereby
supporting national economic development by creating jobs in the private sector and among
consulting firms;
* Strengthening procurement planning and linking it to the budget execution cycle, thereby
supporting government efforts to make public spending more transparent (cutting abusive use
of directly negotiated contracts and fast-track bidding procedures);
Clarifying the current anticorruption legislation in order to give effect to the measures
announced by the Government in this area; establishing a broader range of sanctions and
providing the judicial system with the authority to apply them effectively.
Actions Already Taken.
* Completion of its public sector integrated administrative and payroll management system;
* Completion of the Government's Plan to strengthen budget management (PRGB);
Future Actions (Subsequent PRSCs).
* Completion of a status report on budget implementation as of end June 2001, followed by
corrective measures, if necessary;
* Completion of the module on external financing of the computerized expenditure circuit;
Improving efficiency and transparency of public procurement through the following actions:
Revise the procurement Code to incorporate transparency and punctuality measures; Prepare
a manual of procedures; Issue national standard bidding documents; Issue a model for bid
evaluation reports; Create high-level working to regulate and oversee execution of
procurement reforms; Improve the procurement decision making chain; Strengthen the
Tender Board; Establish a publication system to advertise business opportunities and contract
awards decisions; Improve capacity of procurement planning; Make Tender Board more
efficient (competent staff and computerization); Train Government staff, and Develop
professional procurement career stream.
* Improving the State's fiduciary responsibility through the following actions: Issue a decree to
prohibit contract slicing and abuse of direct contracting; Carry out audits to detect fraudulent
52



Annex 1
Page 10 of 15
and corruptive practices; Improve terms of reference for pre-shipment inspection; In
consultation with Good Governance Office of the Prime Minister, set directives to detect and
combat fraudulent and corruptive actions; Train staff for regulatory and control functions;
and Train staff involved in the judicial and appeal areas.
Simplifying procurement procedures through the following actions: Prepare and adopt a
decree providing for delegation of contract management; Issue a decree to facilitate
participation of small and medium-size enterprises in public procurement; Ensure automatic
payment of interest on overdue payments; Shorten approval and signature of contracts; and
Establish a cashier's office at the customs department.
C. Budget Monitoring and Performance Evaluation
Issue: Inadequate budget monitoring has compromised accountability to the public andfocus
on results.
Accounting is a basic tool not only for centralized budget management, but also for the
management of programs and services. Currently, accounts monitoring by the ministries is
definitely inadequate. Accounts monitoring systems (i.e., general Treasury accounts, budget
accounts, payroll accounting, project accounts, etc.) are fragmented and unconnected. The line
ministries are not involved in administrative and budgetary accounting. Cash expenditures and
advances are not systematically entered into the computerized system and legal commitments
under Title IV are not systematically tracked (the only ones tracked are accounting commitments,
which are provisions of budget funds.) Project expenditures are not routinely consolidated and
entered into the accounting system. And despite significant progress made over the last few years,
the Government has not yet developed performance indicators that would allow it to monitor the
efficacy and efficiency of budget management in all sectors.
Government's Reformn Vision/Agenda. Reforms in 1999-2000. The expenditure circuit has been
computerized. This computerization applies to all stages of an expenditure, from the classic
commitment circuit to the issuance of transfer orders and payment receipts. Data gathering offices
(postes de saisie) have begun to be placed within the departments of credit administrators. This
will mitigate the inconveniences associated with the cumbersome nature of the current circuit and
will keep managers better informed of the status of budget execution. Computerization of the
budget payroll management system (SYGASPE) is completed. The goal is to establish links
between the budgeting system and the cash balance system, so as to truly integrate personnel
expenditures into budget monitoring at all levels. In addition, integration of the module for
monitoring externally-financed expenditures with the computerized budget monitoring system is
nearing completion. The computerization of accounting is also planned and should provide the
framework needed to integrate the various systems.
Regarding implementation of the national strategy on statistical data developed in 1994, the
Government, with support from its development partners, has carried out several surveys aimed at
improving the quantity and quality of statistical data available to users. Burkina Faso's
experience in this area is very rich. Indeed, between 1993 and 1998, important statistical
operations were carried out to measure poverty trends and household living conditions. These
studies included two priority studies, I and 11 (1994 et 1998), two general census counts (1985
and 1996), two demographic studies, and Health Studies I et II.
As to performance indicators, Burkina Faso completed the test of a new approach to
conditionalities in development aid in July 2000 - an initiative led, among donors, by the
European Commission. This new approach, dubbed the Conditionality Reformulation Test, is
53



Annex I
Page II of 15
aimed essentially at improving the Government's ownership of the process of defining,
monitoring and evaluating policies and improving the efficacy of aid, by monitoring programs on
the basis of measurable and pre-identified outcome indicators. The goal was to arrive at a
consensus among all donors on a set of performance indicators for the key sectors of
governmental activity, which would then be used for all decisions regarding the disbursement of
financial aid - preferably in the form of budget support. The experiment led to inclusion in the
June 2000 PRSP of a number of indicators for use in monitoring strategies in three areas: basic
education, health, and budget management. The reflection and discussions on other sectors (e.g.,
agriculture and the private sector) that occurred in connection with the test are fairly well
advanced but have not yet yielded operational indicators validated by the donor community.
Agenda for 2001-2003. In addition to improved accounts monitoring, the measures already
introduced and inventoried in the preceding paragraphs require the establishment of a true
accounting system at the level of credit administrators and departments receiving block
commitments or advance facilities. For instance, when a block of commitments and payment
orders is processed, it is imperative that managers account for their legal commitments and
payment obligations and that they follow each contract, order slip and payment. It will take time
to develop these accounting systems at manager level, and it cannot be done at the expense of
improvements to the central accounting. However, the need to ensure a close connection between
central accounting, project accounts, advance facilities, etc. is one of the main topics of the policy
dialogue now under way.
Data on all public expenditures will continue to be improved through the consolidation and
strengthening of existing surveys, as well as by information emerging from the day-to-day
management of administrations, such as data from the Ministry of Basic Education and Literacy
on educational staff and infrastructures. Efforts will also be directed toward identifying and
performing new studies likely to improve the state of knowledge of priority areas of the PRSP.
All of these data production activities will feed into a minimum statistical program necessary for
poverty alleviation. In addition, because implementation and impact indicators will assume
growing importance over the next few years, a department will be specifically designated to
coordinate the work required to: (i) ensure the availability and reliability of indicators; (ii)
develop new indicators to broaden the monitoring and evaluation of program results; and (iii)
stimulate discussion on the best ways of apportioning funds on the basis of the main indicators.
But this will not be a central monitoring agency. Responsibility for monitoring, as well as
definition of indicators to be monitored, will remain with the spending ministries. Finally, the
advisability of creating a poverty observatory, in order to measure the actual impact of public
expenditures, is being studied.
Actions Already Taken.
* Finalized the public sector integrated administrative and payroll management system
(SYGASPE)
Future Actions (Subsequent PRSCs).
* Completion of a third priority survey;
* Completion of a participatory poverty assessment;
* Completion of a poverty profile on the basis of the results of the priority survey;
*  Adoption and publication of performance monitoring i,ndicators (policy implementation and
results) for the agriculture and livestock sectors.
54



Annex 1
Page 12 of 15
III. FISCAL TRANSPARENCY AND PUBLIC AUDIT
Issue: Basic mechanisms for ensuring transparency and regular auditing of public accounts
exist but their combined effect is weak.
Burkina Faso, with the assistance of bilateral and multilateral donors, has undertaken a range of
tasks aimed at increasing the transparency and accountability of government, many of which
could be completed by end-2002. Taken together, these reforms will contribute to substantial
improvements in reporting and expenditure management. It should be noted that Burkina Faso
must comply with the WAEMU Transparency code adopted by the WAEMU Ministers of
Finances in June 2000. The relations with the BCEAO, the regional Central Bank, are also
transparent. Nevertheless, Burkina Faso needs to take a number of actions to comply with the
basic requirements of the IMF Code of Good Practices on Fiscal Transparency. The main
weaknesses are:
*  Despite the recent implementation of a medium-term  framework, the macroeconomic
underpinnings for preparation of the central government budget would benefit from a more
thorough analytical assessment of policy objectives and the associated risks (e.g., impact of a
drop in agriculture production on growth; or the impact of a fiscal reform).
*  Informationi on contingent liabilities is limited, and is not integrated with the budget process.
*  The economic and functional classification of the budget can be produced within the existing
information management system, but has not been implemented in a manner that allows for
the systematic and regular supply of information.
* The functions and responsibilities for internal control need to be strengthened and redefined.
*  Although treasury balances can be produced upon request, there are difficulties linked to the
absence of balances of entry for some accounts. Hence, the "compte de gestion" for the full
year, which should accompany the budget execution reports laws (lois de reglements), cannot
be produced.
*  The newly created Supreme Audit Institution (Cour des Comptes) needs to be made
operational, its exact role supported by an adequate legislation, and its role clearly separated
from that of the other main audit body, the Inspector General for the State.
* Currently there is no external audit of the Government financial accounts.
Government's Reform Vision/A2enda. Recognizing the importance of fiscal transparency and
public audit in the implementation of the PRSP, the Burkinabe authorities have outlined a two-
track strategy to address the issues. First, some important steps have been taken to improve public
auditing in recent years. In 1999 and for the first time in over a decade, budget execution reports
laws for fiscal years 1993 and 1994 were enacted by the National Assembly. In the framework of
the reform program associated with PRSC I, the Government has completed reports for the 1995-98
period in 2001. An audit of military expenditures for fiscal year 1999 was completed and
transmitted to P'arliament. The creation of an independent supreme audit court in 2000 is another
welcome step, which should further strengthen control and improve budget management. In
addition to auditing the annual accounts on state budget implementation, its duties will include
monitoring and analyzing all public sector performance in the area of financial management and
governance. In the initial phase, the staffing of the supreme audit court will be very small relative
to the number of tasks it must perform. Therefore, satisfactory performance will depend on a
sufficiently large budget for either building additional capacity, or for contracting the services of
private auditors.
55



Annex I
Page 13 of 15
Second, its is necessary to address the fundamental question of the absence of an internal demand
strong enough to trigger the production of regular reports (e.g., treasury balances, budget
classification). This can only be achieved through increased participation in the assessment of the
use of public resources. With regard to the second arm of the strategy, some policy measures
under consideration will require a longer implementation period, particularly as regards the
development of computerized monitoring and reporting systems for sub-national levels of
government. Despite provisions in the 1998 laws covering the decentralization process-which
mandate a substantial decentralization in the areas of health and education by 2003-progress
will be required both to clarify the exact role and responsibilities of local governments (including
revenue sources); and to guarantee adequate tracking of budgetary developments at the local
level.
Actions Already Taken.
*  Submission of budget execution reports to Parliament for fiscal years 1996, 1997 and 1998;
*  Creation of an independent Supreme audit court;
*  Adoption of a presidential decree instituting an annual audit of military expenditures;
  Completion of the audit of the budget of the largest ministries for 1999.
* Adoption of a work program for the Executive Secretary for Good Governance.
Future Actions (Subsequent PRSCs).
*  Submission of budget execution reports for fiscal years 1999 and 2000 and their remittal to
Parliament;
* Adoption of an action plan to strengthen government procedures and capacity in the area of
budget controls and internal auditing;
*  Completion of the audit of the budget of the largest ministries for 2000.
*  Satisfactory implementation of the action plan for strengthening the Supreme Audit Court.
IV.    PUBLIC SCRUTINY AND ANTI-CORRUPTION
Issue. Public scrutiny of public sector management is weak due to lack of timeliness of the
audit reports and limitedfocus of the Government's anti-corruption strategy.
Participatory development has been a tradition in Burkina Faso and a key component of its
development efforts. Communities have always had a role in choosing and implementing
grassroots development-activities. Results from surveys carried out by Transparency International
and several other monitoring organizations indicate that Burkina Faso is considered one of the
less corrupt countries in West Africa. The Government has made progress in improving
governance and reducing corruption. Nevertheless, corruption continues to be perceived as a
problem, undermining the effectiveness of public expenditure and the framework for negotiations
between private sector operators and the Government. The public is not sufficiently well informed
on the rigor with which scrutiny is carried out by the Parliament nor the commitment of the
Government to take remedial action in response to audit observations.
The judicial system also faces a number of issues: (i) insufficient number of judges and courts
(most courts are concentrated in Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso); (ii) the slowness of decision
making (long delays before judgements are rendered) and publication of decisions; (iii) lack of
accountability and impartiality of judges; (iv) lack of equipment; and (v) lack of knowledge of the
general public (including business people) of their rights and obligations. In addition,
56



Annex I
Page 14 of 15
administrative procedures are very cumbersome for enterprise creation and contribute to high
4
transaction costs.
Government's Reform Vision/Aeenda As stated in the PRSP, the Burkinabe authorities realize
that there is an urgent need to develop mechanisms to: (i) increase stakeholders' participation in
public resource management; (ii) increase awareness of the economic and political cost of
corruption through dissemination of audit reports; and (iii) strengthen the judicial system.
The national plan of good governance adopted in 1998 seeks to correct distortions in public
administration by promoting such values as meticulousness, probity, and transparency in public
affairs and among businessmen, and by intensifying the struggle against practices at odds with the
general interest, especially corruption, nepotism, and patronage. A national anti-corruption network
has been set up for comments and proposals regarding possible solutions.
Based on the recommendations of the National Forum on Justice held in October 1998, the Ministry
of Justice has prepared a judicial reform strategy and national action plan covering the period 2000-
04. The plan was approved by the Council of Ministers on April 12, 2000. Its objectives are: (i) to
strengthen the institutional status of the judiciary by carrying out institutional reforms and
measures; and (ii) to increase and strengthen judicial system infrastructure and the human, material,
and financial resources at its disposal. Geared to these objectives, the plan proposes a number of
action programs with an overall budget of CFAF 24 billion. The European Union has taken the
lead in supporting these reforms. The Bank, however, will continue to work with both the
Government and other donors to help implement the agenda.
Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation (PRSC I).
* Dissemination of the National Good Governance Plan to all provincial authorities, and
organization of outreach/information workshops/seminars for the benefit of local authorities
and civil society;
Future Actions (Subsequent PRSCs).
- Satisfactory progress in the implementation of the Action plan to reform the judicial sector;
* Adoption of policy measures to improve the use and dissemination of economic information;
* Adoption of policy measures to ensure deeper involvement of civil society groups in the
design, implementation, and evaluation of budget management.
4 For example, to create a company in Burkina Faso, a small entrepreneur would have to go through numerous steps
and pay duties of up to 20 percent of its capital before he can even start activities.
57



Annex I
Page 15 of 15
Box 3: The Government's Report on Budget Management Issues
The Government of Burkina Faso has just completed a Plan de Renforcement de la Gestion des Depenses Budgetaires
(PRGB) which is a internal diagnostic tool to identify the strengths and weakness of accountability arrangements in the
public sector and the risks these may pose to the usc of public resources. It was prepared in close consultation with the
World Bank and other donors. The PRGB's specific objectives were to: (i) gain a better understanding of the inner
workings of existing financial accountability arrangements; (ii) ensure that proper checks and balances exist in the
country's financial accountability franework, and that they are working as designed to provide the necessary
safeguards for the efficient and transparent use of public funds (the country's own money as well as the money other
institutions provide to the country); and (iii) contribute to the design and implementation of an enhanced and a strong
financial accountability framework in Burkina Faso which will promote financial stability and economic development
and provide donors with adequate assurance for continuing their financial support. The Government considers the
PRGB a key building block for a multi-donor Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) aiming at a
comprehensive review of the public financial managemcnt system in place in Burkina Faso and the adoption of a
medium-term action plan to address the issues identified.
The PRG13 provided an in-depth analysis of the following areas: (i) institutional framework for budget management;
(ii) budget Law; (iii) budget execution; and (iv) budget control. Working closely with the Bank and other donors, the
PRGB team discussed their metbodology prior to undertaking the task, and gathered informnation as follows:
*   Initial desk research - Collection of information from all available reports and studies carried out either by the
Government or donors. Information was also gathered from any other relcvant and reliable resources:
*   Preparation of a checklist for distribution - The checklist was reviewed by the donors and their comments were
duly incorporated in the final lists distributed to all major stakeholders for use in preparing the PRGB position paper
setting out their views of the current financial management and regulatory environment. its weaknesses and strengths,
and any suggestions for irnprovement;
*   Interviews - Interviews were also conducted with representatives of the major stakeholders who received the
questionnaires to confirm their answers and support the position papers mentioned above.
The information gathered was then assessed. Attention was focused on identifying and evaluating the risks involved in
the discharge of fiduciary responsibilities by the various stakeholders.
The PROB report describes the existing financial management architecture and identifies the main strengths and
weaknesses of the current budget system. It concludes that the existing institutional framework is adequate and
provides for the key mechanisms to ensure transparency. A few weaknesses - mainly in the areas of staffing and
compliance with written rules and regulations - were observed. The budget law is regularly prepared and voted by
Parliament. The study recommends improvements in the sectoral policies presented in the budget law. The report also
recommends strengthening budget execution and control and the role of the Cour des Comptes (supreme audit
institution). In addition, it suggests ways to build capacity in linc ministries and ensure that the computer system in
place is actually improving work processes. A detailcd action plan to address all these issues is being devised in the
framework of the CFAA.
58



Annex 2
Page I of I
Linkages between the PRSP, MTEF, CAS, and PRSC
1. Policy Desian
Government's Medium- Term                            PRSP
Objectives and Strategy
Government Main Instrument                     MTF/Budget
2. Implementation
Macro Framework,                  * IMF PRGF       * Education      * Public Sector
Cross-cutting Tasks,               Program         * Health         * Reform
Key sectoral Programs,                             * Rural Dev.     * PSD
Action Plans, and Activities      * Structural      - Water         * Capacity
Reforms         * Transport      * Gender
* Other sect.   * Environment
3. External Financine from the Bank
Bank's Strategic Focus                               CAS
Bank Instruments                   PRSC         Other       AAA          TA
to support selected reforms                     Lending
59



Annex 3
Page I of I
Social Development Indicators, 19962000
Object-es and Policies                               Indicators                               Targets and Resslts
He.lth
Imptye primaryhealtbenre                                                        1996        1997              1998             1999          2000
quality and cowerage                                                           Actual  Turoet Actual   Target Actual Target  Actual   Target  Peel.
Increase public expenditure on        Share of budget expendituee
health                                oo health
Including foreign-financed
inresmnent 12/                             11.4    10.5    110       11.0    11.1    120        0.9     120
Excluding foreign-financed
inestmnent and interest
espeutitures= 1/33/ 4                     113   (120)    119    (126)    122   (131)          13.9   (124)    124
Reallocate budgetry spendig          Health budgets established
tohealthsdisicts                      a distfct lexel                         Targetby 1998                     Done
Preside adequate staffing of         Share of CSPS' ueeting minimal
Iocal health cente  (CSPS)            stmafmg noros (three agents) If                              57                60               60        65
Proside regsLdr supplies of          Share of CSPS stath esse.t-al
essential drugstoCSPS                dngso I                                       60      70      95       80       84     100       92       100
IncreaunotiliouuonrotesinCSPS        N- ccesinhabitatsyear                       021             020          .    0.21        .    023       024
Urban                                    0.37    0 40    0 60      0 50    0.70    0 60         -      0 7
Rural                                    0.18    020               030              0.40               05
Strengthen child vccinetuon          Share of infants (0-It ansths)
prognrms                              saccinated I/
BCG 5/                                     53       70     46        80      52      85       60        70    75
DCT/polio 6/                               37       60     28        70      31      75       42        50    49-
Males                                      55       70     33        75      38      80        53       55    54'
Yelloss fever                              28       70     27        75      33      80        50       55    52
End of )ane data
Ed fuiar,
Improvec aerae equity, and                                                    1995/96     1996/97           1997/98           1998/99         1999/2000
quality rfbask ed-cathan                                                        fst     Est   Actual   Target Actual   Target Actual  Target Pnf.
tcreatse public spending on           Share of budget ependiture on
basic ed-ucaton                      bhsic education
Including foreign-financed
insestnentI2/ 7/                                     88     90       101     112    115        115      130    117
Excluding forreig-financed
inestment and interest
expe.ditures 1/2/4/71                            (14 6)    14.5   (14.3)    15.8  (13 0)      14 2    (15 0)    16.9
Expand cpcty ofpmary                 Gross enrollent raio I                               400    384       420    395    447        40.5      460      42
schogl syster                         Ness adnussiora in first grade
(i.tho-uads)                                        149    139        189     141     229      154      270     165
Rect it pnmary schorA teucheas       Local recrum-onet plan red                          In Augant 1998 (target Jane 1998)
locally                               Pilot i            stplemenaato strted             n Otcober 1998, a targeted
Promote g,rls' education              iris' pieary school gris
rerollnmentrtio I/                                  30.0   31.1      330    324    350        33.6      380      34
Reduce regional dispanties in         Spread in provincial primry
ar-asstoprinmnyedca-on                schuolenrollnrentatiran  /                          75.0    733      730    644    710        578       690    530
Improve qality and efficiency         Repetitionrate Il/                                   18      17        17      17      16       18       14      17
of promary education                  At leant one book for tuo pupils
(French and math) fur 1999                                        Done
Source Buehioah aslsono en
1/ In percent
2On a comnuitset bais, excluding extereJ debt sertci
3/ Not part of identified HIPC targets.
4 Data in paeenthesss indicate budget appropnations
5/ Tubercalosis
6/ Diphthenia cholera. and tetanus/polio
7/ Bud,eturs dta refer to initial sear of school ea,
60



Annex 4
Page I of I
Burkina Faso: Fiscal Impact of the IUPC Initiative, 2000-2003
2000    2001      2002     2003
1. HIPC assistance given
A. Interest due before HIPC assistance                       12.9     17.6     17.4     18.0
B. Interest paid before HIPC assistance                      12.9     17.6     17.4     18.0
C. HIPC assistance on interest
(As a result of stock of debt operation only)
D. Interest due after HIPC assistance                        12.3     4.7      5.3      5.9
E. Amortization due before HIPC assistance                  34.0     28.3      30.9     31.8
F. Amortization paid before HIPC assistance                 34.0     28.3      30.9     31.8
G. HIPC assistance on amortization
(As a result of stock of debt operation only)
H. Amortization due after HIPC assistance                   24.3      16.1     17.5     18.0
1. HIPC assistance provided as grants
(To cover debt service due)                             0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
J. HIPC assistance as exceptional financing
(To cover debt service due)                             0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
Total HIPC assistance (C+G+I+J)                         0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
Total HIPC assistance (in millions of U.S. dollars) I   14.8     34.8     36.1     37.3
Net cash flow to the budget from HIPC
assistance B+F-(D+H-1-J)                              10.3    25.1      25.6     25.9
Memorandum items:
Other donor flows                                         158.4    207.8    178.7    162.8
Total net external flows
(Net extemal financing less debt service due)          111.5    161.9    130.4    113.0
2. Functional and other poverty reduction govemment
expenditures1
Baseline pre-HIPC assistance expenditure projections         52.8     58.7     63.5     69.1
Post-HIPC assistance expenditure projections                 63.1     83.8     89.1     95.0
Memorandum items:
Tax revenue (in percent of GDP)                           12.9     13.5      14.0     14.1
Overall fiscal balance before HIPC assistance
(In percent of GDP)                                    -5.2     -4.6     -1.6     -1.0
Overall fiscal balance after HIPC assistance
(In percent of GDP)                                    -5.8     -6.0     -3.0     -2.3
Source: Burkinabe authorities
'Excludes foreign-financed investment.
61



Annex 5
Page I of 6
IMPLEMENTING THE PRSP AND HIPC INITIATIVE REFORM PROGRAM
I.     Mobilization of HIPC resources in 2000
In June and July 2000, the World Bank Group's International Development Association (IDA)
and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) agreed that Burkina Faso had satisfied the
requirements to reach its completion point under the original Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
Initiative, and was thereby eligible to begin receiving around $400 million in debt service relief,
or $229 million in net present value (NPV) terms. Burkina Faso also qualified for additional
assistance under the enhanced framework (adopted in September 1999) amounting to $300
million in debt service relief over time ($169 million NPV)5. At the same time, the country's
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) was also presented to the Boards of the two
institutions.
Debt-service relief obtained in 2000 under the original HIPC initiative as well as the interim
financing obtained under the enhanced framework has been allocated to priority poverty
reduction programs contained in the PRSP. These resources amounted to CFAF 7.35 billion as of
December 31, 2000. The authorities expect to complete their first annual progress report under
the PRSP in the third quarter of 2001 and with this last requirement under the enhanced HIPC
initiative, to reach their completion point.
II.    Progress made with the implementation of priority programs financed with HIPC
resources
HIPC resources provide the government with the opportunity to finance additional activities that
benefit the poor, which may have been postponed in the past. In its 2000 PRSP, the Burkinabe
Government presented a table summarizing the priority activities that will be financed with HIPC
resources.
2.1 Summary of the PRSP Action Plan (Table 13)
Provisional table showing the distribution of HIPC resources for 2001-2003 (CFAF billion)
BENEFICIARY SECTOR                    2000            2001             2002          2003
Health                                5.04            11.89            12.99         11.64
Basic education                       6.27            12.52            12.88         13.26
Potable water                         0.05             0.05            0.05          0.05
Agriculture                            0               2.75            2.65          2.60
Livestock farming                     1.60             1.60            1.60          1.60
Rural roads                           1.50             3.0             3.0            3.0
Source: Excerpt from Burkina Faso's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
2.2.   Execution of poverty reduction programs in priority sectors as of April 20, 2001
In light of the low level of mobilization in relation to initial estimates, the government decided to
allocate the resources mobilized as of December 31, 2000 to three sectors: basic education,
health, and roads. The level of execution of priority programs is satisfactory in each of these
three sectors. The situation is as follows:
5Together with the debt service reduction obtained under the original framework, total savings on IDA
debt service was estimated at about $282 million, with the IMF providing an additional $49 million. The
combined debt service savings from all Burkina Faso's creditors under the HIPC Initiative of $700 million
would effectively cut in half Burkina Faso's debt service obligations over the coming years.
62



Annex 5
Page 2 of 6
Basic Education
Of CFAF 7.35 billion mobilized as of December 31, 2000, the Ministry of Basic Education
(MEBA) received 2.873 billion, a portion of which (2.343 billion) was allocated to the
construction agency Faso Baara for infrastructure work. To date, all contracts have been awarded
and construction work has begun. The MEBA program covers 30 three-class schools, 130
teachers' residences, 102 latrines, and 55 boreholes. The remainder (530 million) was used to
purchase teaching materials amounting to 189.5 million and school equipment, amounting to 331
million. All contracts have been awarded for these purchases and work is underway.
Health
The Ministry of Health received CFAF 3.587 billion from HIPC funds in 2000. The table below
provides details on the expenditures that will be covered by these funds (in CFA francs).
DESCRIPTION                                  AMOUNT
CSPS (health centers) infrastructure                                536,280
CSPS equipment to be standardized                                   1,459,250
Medication for MEG warehouses                                        49,300
CSPS human resources                                                 111,318
Training of specialists                                              88,025
Medication for chronic diseases                                     120,000
Support for the establishment of the SAMU (Ouaga-Bobo)              150,000
Combating Noma                                                       80,000
Combating micronutrient deficiencies                                 178,980
Combating sexually transmitted diseases and HIV/AIDS                 100.000
(purchase of reagents)
Strengthening the SNIS                                              136,710
Purchase of vaccinations to combat epidemics                        149,772
Settlement of commitments/CSPS contracts 1999                       427,865
TOTAL                                     3,587,500
Rural roads
The rural roads program is a major component of the government's poverty reduction strategy.
The overall program for the 2000-2004 period covers 45 provinces with an average of 100
kilometers of roads per province. HIPC resources mobilized in 2000 and assigned to this
category will make it possible to build 400 km of roads in six provinces (Kouritenga, Koulpelgo,
Tapoa, Oubritenga, Kossi, and Noumbiel). So far, the study has been completed for four
provinces totaling 272 km of roads divided into 11 lots, with each lot corresponding to one road.
A restricted consultation procedure was used for the 2000 road program. Contracts have already
been awarded and work has begun.
III.   Institutional device and mechanism for the management of HIPC resources
3.1. HIPC special account
In order to ensure and facilitate the monitoring of HIPC disbursements, the government has
established a special treasury account (account No. 960.9 called the special growth and poverty
reduction fund). This account is provisioned with funds obtained from the forgiveness of debt
once it falls due. It can also be provisioned with direct assistance in the form of fresh funds. The
choice of the special fund offers several advantages. For example, it ensures a certain degree of
flexibility in the execution of expenditure because it is possible to carry over its balance from one
63



Annex 5
Page 3 of 6
fiscal year to another. Consequently, funds allocated to a given sector cannot be cancelled on the
closing date of commitments. It also allows monitoring, from a budgetary standpoint, of debt
service commitment. It does, however, impose one major constraint: account movement is
possible only if funds are available.
3.2. Institutional mechanism for managing HIPC resources
Several actors are involved in the management of HIPC resources in Burkina Faso. They are
mainly the beneficiary ministries, the Ministry of Economy through the General Directorate for
the Budget and the General Directorate for the Treasury and Public Accounting, and the
implementing agencies such as the Faso Baara Agency, which is acting as the contracting agency
for infrastructure work, particularly in the area of construction.
IV.   Institutional mechanism for monitoring the PRSP
The Burkinabe Government has made a commitment to update its Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper every year. To that end, a three-tiered formal monitoring mechanism has been established:
(i) a decision-making tier represented by the ministerial committee overseeing the PRSP and
chaired by the Prime Minister; (ii) a technical tier composed of an interministerial technical
committee to monitor the PRSP, which brings together all the secretaries general in the ministries
and includes the representatives of donors; (iii) an operational tier represented by PRSP sectoral
monitoring groups. The mission of these groups, which are supervised by the secretaries general
of the ministries, is to work towards implementation of plans of action and sectoral reform. They
draft an implementation report addressed to the interministerial technical committee to monitor
the PRSP. Specific working groups will be formed to address the cross-cutting topics of the PRSP
such as competitiveness and good governance.
V.    Progress made with the implementation of the global poverty reduction strategy
The poverty reduction strategy of Burkina Faso is part of a broader set of objectives outlined in
the letter of intent on sustainable human development policy adopted in 1995. It seeks the same
objectives by emphasizing four main areas: (i) acceleration of growth and equitable distribution
of its benefits; (ii) implementation of policies that favor access by the poorest sectors to basic
social services; (iii) promotion of revenue-generating activities, particularly in rural areas; and
(iv) promotion of good governance.
First area: Accelerated and equitable growth
In its Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, the government maintains that poverty reduction in
Burkina Faso requires an economic growth rate of 7 to 8 percent p.a. To achieve this growth rate,
the government's medium-term strategy is centered around expediting structural reforms aimed at
liberalizing the economy, reducing factor costs, and improving the business environment. In the
short-term, boosting agricultural revenue will be the primary engine of poverty reduction.
Liberalizing the economy. Following a review of the residual portfolio of the State, the
government approved a list of companies, which was submitted to Parliament. A law authorizing
implementation of a privatization program (second round) was adopted by Parliament in July
2001. The liberalization of the telecommunications sector has continued with the arrival of two
newcomers to the mobile telephone market since April 2000 (Telecel and Celtel) and the
appointment of a Director General and establishment of an Administrative Board of ARTEL.
Interconnection among the networks of the three operators took place on April 26, 2001. An
64



Annex 5
Page 4 of 6
energy sectoral policy letter was approved by the government in December 2000 and contains a
liberalization schedule for the electricity and oil and natural gas sectors. This letter also provides
for the privatization of SONABEL and SONABHY. The ONEA is also included on the new list
of public enterprises submitted to Parliament.
Reducing factor costs. The interconnection project paving the way for the importation of
electricity from Cote d'lvoire has been completed. The Bobo-Dioulasso network has been fed by
this link since April 21, 2001. This low-cost supply should lead to a reduction in the sales price
per kWh. Moreover, the government expects to maintain its policy of providing subsidies for
diesel oil, which is heavily used by SONABEL and transporters. A study is currently taking
place on marginal effective tax rates (METRs) to evaluate the level of fiscal pressure being
experienced by the different sectors.
Business environment. After the forum on justice held in October 1998, a sectoral strategy
document and a plan of action for justice reform were adopted by the government on April 12,
2000. A round table of donors took place in June 2001 and endorsed the action plan.
Short-term. Increased agricultural revenue will be the main factor driving poverty reduction.
The recent decision made by the tripartite committee (State, SOFITEX, and producer
associations) managing the cotton sector to increase the purchase price of seed cotton to CFAF
200 during the next crop year will help achieve this objective.
For the non-cotton areas that are experiencing a shortage of grain, the government has appealed to
the international community to provide the food aid needed. The distribution of supplies has
already started in certain areas. A rapid intervention program to provide boreholes in rural areas
has also been started.
Second area: Access by the poor to social services
*  Access to education
The implementation of the ten-year basic education plan is taking place through infrastructure
development and recruitment of teachers. The major reforms of the basic education sector
pertaining, in particular, to review of the teacher recruitment system, the institutional framework,
and the promotion system, and aimed at increasing the number of teachers, improving
pedagogical training, and reducing the turnover rate are explicitly mentioned in the draft
document on the educational policy of the government. Furthermore, the State continues to focus
heavily on assisting the poor sectors of the population by pursuing a policy of development of
school cafeterias and free distribution of books, which extends to students in private schools.
*  Access to health
Following the general assembly on health, the government adopted a new national health policy
which was supplemented by a national ten-year plan (2001-2010) for the development of health,
the cost of which is currently being determined. While awaiting implementation of the new plan,
the government focused its efforts on vaccination and medication distribution programs. Health
personnel numbers will be expanded using HIPC resources. In addition, budgetary procedures
have improved somewhat as a result of mechanisms related to funds allocated, which give health
districts a certain degree of autonomy over the management of their operating budget.
65



Annex 5
Page 5 of 6
Third area: Expanding employment opportunities and revenue-generating activities for the
poor
The activities planned in this area are included in the implementation of the priority action plans
of the Operational Strategic Plan. The rural development sector will also receive HIPC resources
expected for 2001. The indicative allocation for the agricultural sector is 2.75 billion, which will
be allocated to the establishment of small village developments (1.5 billion), the building of
manure pits (500 million), the purchase of seed (500 million), and the establishment of a fund for
women's groups involved in market gardening (250 million).
Fourth area: Good governance
* Good democratic governance
Several initiatives have been taken in this area: (i) the implementation of the national plan on
good governance adopted by the govemment in 1998 has continued with the establishment of an
executive secretariat responsible for good governance and the implementation of a monitoring
mechanism (national coordination of good governance and sectoral monitoring committees).
Preparations are being made for a round table of donors; (ii) the continuation of overall reform of
the administration. The progress made in this area involves the introduction of a new system of
merit-based evaluation beginning in 2001 and the application of the new regulations to
contractors; (iii) the continuation of judicial reform through the adoption in April 2000 of a plan
of action for justice reform and the drafting of an investment program, the cost of which is
currently being determined. Preparations are being made for a round table of donors, to be held
in June, and (iv) the dissemination of economic and financial information. In that regard, ideas
are being discussed for the drafting of a minimum statistics program and a dissemination plan.
Moreover, it should be pointed out that the democratic process has been strengthened by the new
municipal elections that were held in 2000.
- Good economic governance
The government has undertaken an internal study aimed at assessing reforms in the area of public
finance since the start of structural adjustment programs in 1991 and at identifying additional
measures needed to enhance the effectiveness, transparency. and accountability of managers. In
support of this initiative and with a view to gradual transition from project aid to budget aid, the
World Bank has started a process to study accounting obligations, which should pave the way for
a complete assessment of the strengths and weaknesses of the public and private public
accounting systems in Burkina Faso. This study will permit the identification of the measures to
be adopted to guarantee the reliability and credibility of public and private accounting systems
and accountability of actors, which are important prerequisites in order to move towards budget
aid. Furthermore, a national network to combat corruption has been established.
* Local governance
Preparatory workshops for the drafting of plans of action to transfer authoritv and resources were
organized for the main sectors throughout the year 2000. Activities are being conducted on many
fronts (dissemination, workshops) in order to ensure the success of this effort.
66



Annex 5
Page 6 of 6
VII.   Main lessons
It is, of course, too early to draw lessons from Burkina Faso's six-month experience with the
implementation of the HIPC initiative. However, thought can be given to a number of key
elements that have emerged:
* The importance of preparing realistic estimates of revenue. This seems to be important in
order to guarantee availability of the funds that will be used to finance priority action plans.
* The need to provide budget aid during the first half of the year in order to shore up the State's
liquid assets, which are stretched very thin during this period because of the seasonal nature
of revenue. This would allow the government to meet expenditures in a timely manner and
would avoid liquidity problems for enterprises arising from the financial expenses that they
are forced to incur because of delays in payment.
* The need to expedite the conclusion of debt relief agreements with all creditors in order to
pennit the effective release of funds.
* The advantages of the special HIPC account, which ensures a certain degree of flexibility in
the use of funds while being fully integrated in the budget.
The two immediate next steps are as follows: (i) the government is in the process of drafting a
plan of action for updating the PRSP; and (ii) a plan of action for conducting additional surveys
will be completed by end-2001. The World Bank will assist the government with the preparation
of the next priority survey and organization of a workshop on improving the production and
dissemination of statistics.
67



Annex 6
Page I of 26
BURKINA FASO
MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE
Ouagadougou
No. 2001 1223      /MEF/stc-pdes/dspm
June 18, 2001
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
1.    The purpose of this development policy letter is to present the reform program that the
government of Burkina Faso intends to pursue in support of the poverty reduction strategy that
was prepared during the course of 2000. It sets forth the main lines of the Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (PRSP), outlines the government's budgetary reform program for the next three
years as it relates to the poverty reduction strategy, and presents an interim status report on
implementation of the program.
2.    As you know, Burkina Faso has been engaged since 1991 in a broad program of
economic reform with the support of the Bretton Woods institutions (International Monetary
Fund and World Bank), and the entire international community. It has undertaken three
successive three-year programs with support through agreements under the IMF's Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF); and a series of structural adjustment credits (EMRSO,
SAC I, SAC II, SAC III) and sector adjustment loans SECAL-A (agriculture) and SECAL-T
(transportation) from the World Bank, intended to lay the basis for a liberalized economy
functioning in accordance with market principles, where the private sector would be the principal
engine of growth.
3.    In terms of the major structural measures and reformns undertaken and implemented, we
may point to: (i) public finance reform, through an overhaul of the taxation system,
rationalization of public spending and control over the public payroll; (ii) reform of public
enterprises, on the basis of a program of government disengagement, while enhancing the
management of those enterprises remaining in the public portfolio; (iii) restructuring of the
banking system and the shift to a flexible monetary policy; (iv) agriculture sector reform,
primarily by redefining the role of the State and adopting a strategy for the cotton subsector; (v)
promoting the private sector through liberalization of the economy, the opening of new sectors of
activity and improvement of the legal, fiscal and regulatory framework for business; (vi)
institutional reforms to make the civil service more effective and efficient.
4.    These reforms have produced appreciable results, particularly after the devaluation of the
CFA franc in January 1994. Thus: (i) on the macroeconomic front, the country has performed
well over the last decade, recording an average real growth rate in the order of 5 percent for the
period 1994-1999, compared to 3 percent over the period 1980-93, and (ii) in terms of budgetary
management, budgetary revenues have continued to rise over the period 1996-1999, while
68



Annex 6
Page 2 of 26
operating expenses have been kept relatively under control, and this has made it possible to
establish and maintain a positive budget balance since 1995 (CFAF 26.8 billion, in 1996 and
CFAF 57.23 billion in 1999).
5.    However it must be noted that this sound macroeconomic performance has not translated
into any significant improvement in living conditions, and the country remains among the poorest
in the world. Gross domestic product per capita stands at around $220 a year, one of the lowest
in the sub-region ($250 in Mali, $330 in Togo, $380 in Benin, $390 in Ghana and $700 in C6te
d'Ivoire), while the human development index for Burkina Faso is one of the weakest in the world
(HDI= 0.304 in 1997).
6.    According to two priority surveys that were conducted by the government in 1994 and
1998, based on the current value of the poverty line, which is estimated at CFAF 41,099 for 1994
and CFAF 72,690 for 1998, the proportion of poor people registered a slight increase from 44.5
percent to 45.3 percent. Thus, despite numerous efforts to promote basic essential social services,
the country still faces a large social deficit, the determining factors of which are rapid population
growth (2.4 percent per year), and low labor productivity, particularly in the agricultural sector
which employs 80 percent of the labor force. In terms of basic education, the literacy rate is
among the lowest in the sub-region (41 percent in 1998-99, and about 35 percent for girls). As to
the health situation, rates of morbidity and mortality (in particular infant and maternal) are very
high, as a result of infectious and parasitic diseases and the swift spread of the HIV infection. In
the area of drinking water supply, progress has been made in recent years, but the situation
remains unsatisfactory in terms of covering the needs of both urban and rural dwellers. In terms
of nutrition, the level of needs coverage remains low, at around 2300 kcal in 1996 vs. the required
2500 kcal.
7.    The government is fully aware that this situation of social deficit, extreme poverty and
vulnerability of the Burkinabe population constitutes a major handicap in any attempt at
sustainable development, and it has therefore prepared, through a participatory approach, a PRSP
to situate its efforts within a vision of development based on the concept of human security. This
concept, defined in the Sustainable Human Development Policy Letter of Intent prepared by the
government in 1995, is based on the notions of: (i) economic security linked to access to
education, vocational training and remunerative employment; (ii) health security, linked to access
to low-cost medical care, both preventive and curative; (iii) food security, linked to access to a
sound basic diet, including safe drinking water; (iv) environmental security, linked to
preservation of a healthy environment; (v) individual and political security, linked to applying the
principles of good civil management, namely the rule of law, responsibility and participation,
efficiency and transparency.
8.    This vision of development translates, in terms of objectives, into the need: (i) to
strengthen actions to reduce the state of poverty and vulnerability of the population, and to
diminish disparities; (ii) to pursue sound macroeconomic policies that will foster strong,
sustainable and more equitable growth; (iii) to accelerate and reinforce the process of
decentralization and to modernize the public administration; (iv) to insert the country successfully
into the process of globalization and regional integration.
9.    This paper is organized in three main sections. It begins by reviewing the main thrusts of
the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper prepared during the year 2000, and then describes the
reform program that the government intends to implement within the framework of PRSP
implementation over the next three years (public sector reform and major sectoral reforms).
Finally, the third part of the paper provides an interim status report on implementation of the
69



Anne,x 6
Page 3 of 26
PRSP since its adoption by the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund in June and July
2000, and by the community of development partners.
1. MAIN STRATEGIC THRUSTS OF THE PRSP
10.    Given the multidimensional nature of poverty, the government has opted for a global
strategy that will reconcile the needs for structural reforms and economic recovery with the
objectives of raising incomes for the poor and providing transfers to the most disadvantaged
groups. The government's poverty reduction policy is thus focused on four strategic areas, and a
few broad principles, namely: (i) refocusing the role of the State; (ii) sustainable management of
natural resources; (iii) promotion of a new partnership with donors; (iv) promotion of good
governance; (v) coming to grips with regional disparities; (vi) taking account of the gender
dimension; and (vii) a determination to work with a view to regional integration.
11.    Realizing that there can be no poverty reduction without rapid, strong and sound
economic growth, the government has decided to give first priority to accelerating growth based
on equity. This means consolidating the achievements of recent years in terms of macroeconomic
stabilization, reducing budget deficits and making the taxation system more efficient, and then
adopting instruments to share the fruits of economic growth more equitably. The objectives of
the strategic thrust are: (i) to maintain a stable macroeconomic framework; (ii) to make the
economy more competitive and reduce factor costs; (iii) to accelerate rural development; and (iv)
to support the country's productive sectors.
12.    The objective of the second strategic thrust is to guarantee access for the poor to basic
social services. This approach recognizes the fact that the macroeconomic performance recorded
to date has not been sufficient to make a significant improvement in living conditions for the
great majority of the population. To achieve this, the government has opted for vigorous efforts
aimed at: (i) making education services, (ii) health services and (iii) safe thinking water more
accessible to the poor; and (iv) improving housing for the poor. The following table lists the
priority actions identified for strengthening sectoral programs now underway.
70



Annex 6
Page 4 of 26
Table 1: Program of action under the second strategic thrust
2000            2001            2002            2003
Health                                                               5.04           11.87           13.01           11.64
Standardizing health facilities                                      1.49            3.75            3.86            2.58
Recruitment of health personnel*                                     0.29            0.84            1.09             1.34
Training medical specialists                                         0.09            0.17            0.17            0.17
Forward strategy (expanded immunization program)                       0             0.76            0.49            0.49
Matemity facilities and dispensaries                                 1.84            0.68            0.77            0.79
Drugs for depots                                                     0.08            0.09            0.10              0.1
Drugs for chronic illnesses                                          0.12            0.25            0.26            0.27
Emergency care in the medical centers with surgical units
(CMA)                                                                0.15            0.32            0.33            0.29
Anti-noma campaign                                                   0.08            0.06            0.05            0.06
Epidemiological surveillance                                        0.06             0.11            0.12            0.12
Micronutrient deficiency campaign                                    0.22            0.44            0.39             0.4
Promotion of community health services                              0.57             3.11            4.04            3.65
Strengthening the national health information system                 0.05             0.1            0.11            0.11
STD and HIV campaign                                                   0             1.19            1.23             1.27
Education                                                            6.27           12.52           12.88           13.26
Expanding primary school enrolment                                   4.57            9.57            9.86           10.15
Improving the quality and relevance of education                    0.30             0.30            0.30            0.30
Literacy campaign                                                   0.22             0.22            0.23            0.23
Drinking water                                                       0.05            0.05            0.05            0.05
Drililing wells in periurban areas                                   0.05            0.05            0.05            0.05
Urban and semi-urban water supply (secondary centers)                PM              PM               PM              PM
Rural water supply (wells)                                           PM              PM               PM              PM
Source: Burkina Faso, Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper 2000-2003
13.      The third strategic thrust consists in expanding employment opportunities and income-
generating activities for the poor. Here the government intends to create the conditions necessary
for more rapid growth in the agricultural sector, given its major role in the performance of the
national economy, through programs of economic security for the poorest groups based on
enhancing agricultural productivity and improving operating conditions and factor availability.
To this end, efforts will be directed at: (i) reducing the vulnerability of agricultural activities; (ii)
intensifying and modernizing agricultural activity; (iii) increasing and diversifying rural incomes;
and (iv) overcoming the isolation of rural areas. These actions are summarized in the following
table:
Table 2: Program of action under the third strategic thrust
2000            2001            2002            2003
Agricultural water supply                                            PM              PM              PM               PM
Agriculture                                                          PM              PM               PM              PM
Soil fertility                                                     0.00            0.25            0.25             0.25
Modemization of agriculture                                        0.00            1.74             1.64            1.59
Sopport to producers/operators and their organizations             0.00            0.06            0.06             0.06
Livestock                                                           1.60             1.60            1.60            1.60
Rural roads                                                          1-50            3.00            3.00            3.00
Source : Burkina Faso, Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper 2000-2003
14.      The fourth strategic thrust involves the promotion of good governance. The government
is aware that this is a key factor in making the development process sustainable, because it will
encourage local initiatives and grassroots control, ensure better management of public resources,
and help to deepen the roots of democratic culture and the rule of law. The government therefore
71



Annex 6
Page 5 of 26
intends to implement measures to consolidate the process of democratization of society and to
strengthen the capacities of the State, by instituting: (i) sound democratic governance; (ii) local
governance; (iii) sound economic governance; and (iv) an anticorruption campaign.
2. PLANNED REFORMS IN THE CONTEXT OF THE PRSP
15.   To ensure the success of these priority programs, the government realizes that steps must
be taken to refocus the role of the State, to introduce sustainable management of natural
resources, to encourage a new partnership with donors, to promote good governance, to take
account of regional disparities, the gender dimension, and regional integration.
2.1. Public sector reform
16.   Over the next three years, the government is planning an extensive series of reforms to
the entire public sector. These will involve: (i) continuing to strengthen the budget system; (ii)
improving public participation; and (iii) strengthening competition.
2.1.1  Strengthening the budget system
17.    The government is convinced that the success of its poverty reduction program wvill
require improved budgetary management and greater efficiency in public spending, within a
framework of transparent management. It has therefore been pursuing in-depth reforms of the
budget system in recent years (budget formulation, monitoring of budget performance, control
and audits) and has adopted instruments of budget policy and sectoral policies to achieve greater
impact of public policies. These efforts are part of a broader program of reform covering the
period 2001-2003.
2.1.1.1. Budget formulation
18.   In 1998, the government decided to reform its budget system and it adopted the program-
budget approach as a new way of preparing and implementing the State budget. This approach
makes it much easier to formulate strategic budgetary choices and to identify needed amendments
to budget policy, as well as to improve the coordination of public policies, sector programs and
budgets. For the first year of program-budget implementation (1999), six ministries, including
those responsible for health and basic education, submitted their budgetary proposals in the form
of programs, i.e. coherent sets of actions in pursuit of precise goals. The budget preparation
process, however, was not conducive to the preparation of realistic sectoral programs by the
responsible ministries, because at the time they prepared their draft budget submissions they had
no precise indication of the amount of resources that might be available to them, and this did little
to encourage effective management of conflicts between needs and resources.
19.   In order to reinforce the integration of public policies, strategies and sectoral programs
and budgets, the government undertook in 2000 to prepare a Medium-Term Expenditure
Framework (MTEF), which would be updated each year. This approach is intended to provide an
effective framework for preparing program-budgets by establishing envelopes or ceilings on
sector spending by the various ministries and thereby: (i) ensuring greater consistency between
budgetary allocations and the priorities defined in the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper; (ii)
encouraging transparency in budget programming; (iii) promoting participation by creating a
special framework for consultation and coordination between the government and its principal
partners (donors, civil society) on budgetary policy. In this regard, the government organized a
seminar in April/May 2000 bringing together representatives of all its development partners and
72



Annex 6
Page 6 of 26
civil society to establish an in-depth analysis of the budget system and to undertake, with the
technical support of the World Bank, the development of macroeconomic planning instruments
that would ensure better integration of the budget within the overall macroeconomic framework.
This led to preparation of a spending program for the period 2000-2003, which has improved the
effectiveness of the sector ministries in their preparation of draft program budgets for 2001-2003.
20.    In March 2001, the government launched efforts to update the MTEF for the period
2002-2004 in order to make the public spending program fully consistent with the poverty
reduction strategy.  It hosted a consultation workshop that brought together the country's
development partners (the donor community resident in Burkina Faso), civil society (non-
governmental associations and organizations involved in key sectors, the economic and social
council), elected representatives (lower Chamber of Parliament) and the private sector (Chamber
of Commerce). This workshop provided an occasion for: (i) presenting the budgetary policy that
the government intends to pursue during the period 2002-2004; (ii) discussing the feasibility of
this policy, in light of the various constraints and, above all, the poverty reduction objectives
defined in the PRSP; (iii) formulating recommendations for technical preparation of the spending
framework for the period 2000-2004, in light of the PRSP objectives.
21.    In May 2001, the MTEF thus prepared was the object of a feedback workshop prior to its
adoption by the Council of Ministries. In this way, the budgetary circular indicates spending
ceilings for all ministries and institutions for the period 2000-2004. These envelopes were
established on the basis of: (i) expected budgetary resources, given the macroeconomic
framework set for the period 2002-2004; and (ii) development priorities as defined in the Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper. For all sectors combined, this spending program authorizes nearly
CFAF 21.7 billion in government budgetary funding for new programs to be implemented in
2002 (CFAF 29.6 billion in 2003 and CFAF 21.7 billion in 2004).
22.    For the period 2001-2004, the government will seek to strengthen the program-budget
preparation process, which will henceforth be consolidated within the Medium-Term Expenditure
Framework. In particular, it is committed to refining the new macroeconomic modeling tools,
development of which began in 2000, and improving budgetary planning techniques that are
indispensable to sound strategic programming. To do this, it has put in place a technical unit
responsible for pursuing work on the macroeconomic model that was undertaken in 2000. At the
same time it will make further improvements in the presentation of the detailed financial
framework   for  each   sector,
consistent with sectoral policies.    Box 1: THE BUDGETARYEXPENDITUREMANAGEMENTSTRENGTHENING
PLAN (PRGB)
2.1.1.2. Budgetary                    Studies conducted during the public expenditure review, surveys undertaken as part oj
management, performance              the testing of the new approach to conditionality, and audit reports on buidgetary
monitoring and procurement            support from some of the country's development partners have all pointed to a number
of weaknesses in budgetary management that require firther consideration in order to
2.1.1.2.1. Budgetary                 reinforce the measures already taken. 7his is all the more necessary in light of the
pressing need to foster the values of' rigor, probity, transparency, ejficiency and
management                            accountability in public affatrs,
23.    In the field of budgetary    Preparation of the Budgetary Expenditure Management Strengthening Plan (PRGB) is
management, the government has   a direct reflection of the determination expressed by the government of'Burkina Faso.
undertaken  actions  to  prepare   in its Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). tofoster sound economic governance.
7he PRGB thus offers a frame of reference for putting the PRSP into effect, and sets
during the first half of 2001, a   forth an ambitious plan of action that will allow the economy to grow more rapidlv. and
plan  to  strengthen  budgetary   poverty to be significantly reduced. This plan must cover various aspects of budgetary
expenditure management (PRGB)   management (preparation, execution and control) and it must be consistent with the
in  Burkina  Faso  (Council  of   guidelines, reforms and programs now underway. This plan, which aims at improving
the management of budgetary expenditure. will propose solutions for strengthening
transparency and accountabilitv in managing budgetary expenditures. and for
encouraging greater attention on the part of civil society or the institutions that
represent it.
73



Annex 6
Page 7 of 26
Ministers decision of 01/31/2001). This initiative represents continuance of the major reforms
already undertaken in the last few years, which have led to a significant improvement in the
budgetary process. It is intended, among other things, to strengthen the operational dynamics of
the strategic thrust of the PRSP relating to economic governance. The approach adopted is a
participatory one, involving all players in budget management, civil society and donors in the
budgetary management field. In order to ensure transparency, the government's efforts will be
examined in-depth through an external assessment, coordinated by the principal donors involved
in this field. This approach should mean that, before the end of 2001, a single and transparent
frame of reference will be in place for the reforms to be carried out in the area of budget
expenditure management.
24.   Cash management.  The government has instituted a budget execution and cash
management monitoring committee with a view to establishing guidelines in the area of cash
management, monitoring budget execution in terms of revenues and expenditures, drawing up
annual, quarterly and monthly cash management plans and overseeing their execution, arid
monitoring the net cash and financial position of the government in order to propose to necessary
corrective measures. This committee, which will meet monthly, should make significant progress
in terms of regulating the balance between expenditures and revenues, and programming the
government's cash management.
25.    Government chart of accounts. The government chart of accounts, which is based
essentially on WAEMU Directive No. 05/98/CM establishing a general plan of government
accounts, and on the current budgetary framework, was prepared and adopted by Decree No. 99-
53/MEF/SG/DGTCP/DELF of March 22, 1999. The correlation between the government chart of
accounts and the budgetary framework will make the data more readily understandable and will
allow for better execution of budgetary operations by the accounting officer. To facilitate its
implementation, 10 accounting instructions and a management software program have been
prepared. The new software, known as Integrated Government Accounting, was designed and put
into effect in January 2000. The features of the software are such as to produce, when fully
operational, a regular and reliable statement of cash balances and other summary reports.
26.   Financial legislation.  As part of the implementation of WAEMU  Directive No.
05/97/CM on budget legislation and Directive No. 06/97/CM on the General Public Accounting
Regulations, government financial legislation (lois organiques, general regulations on public
accounts and their application rules) has been under review since September 1997. A decree
issuing general regulations for public accounts has already been adopted. However, there is still a
need to integrate the texts submitted for review in order to ensure greater consistency among all
pieces of financial legislation. This review, which was conducted in accordance with a frame of
reference defined by WAEMU involved preparing, on one hand, a draft law and decree relating to
budget laws and general regulations governing public accounts, and on the other hand, tihe
application rules, namely: a draft decree establishing a public accounting regime, a draft decree
establishing a system of authorizing officers and appropriation managers, a draft decree
establishing control over government financial operations, a draft decree on organizationl,
operations and control of accounts for revenues and advances. The draft legislation on budget
laws was sent to the National Assembly for adoption during the last parliamentary' session.
27.   Computerizing the expenditure process. In order to improve budgetary management,
work has continued on computerizing the expenditure chain. Computerization covers all stages
of expenditure, from commitment to the issuance of payment orders and receipts. Next steps will
be aimed at establishing data capture points within the budget administration services in order to
alleviate the cumbersome conventional cycle, and to keep managers better informed of the status
74



Annex 6
Page 8 of 26
of budget execution (note that the departments of Territorial Administration, Justice, Social
Action, Employment, the Prime Minister, the General Secretariat of Government are already
operational). In terms of payroll, the government is completing the interconnection between the
payroll file and that of the public service in order to automate the government's administrative
and payroll management. Finally, the government is currently examining implementation of a
computerized revenue circuit so that the treasury can access the databases of other revenue-
collecting authorities in real time.
28.   Efficiency of public expenditure. In terms of the incidence of public expenditure, the
govemment decided in 1999 to revive the process of public expenditure reviews, as part of an
effort to secure greater impact from the budget, greater transparency in the budgetary process, and
greater equity in the allocation of budgetary resources. To do so, the government undertook to
systematize the public expenditure review process. In this context, it has prepared a three-year
work program that has won the support of its development partners, and that was implemented in
2000, with the production of: (i) two sector reviews, in health and education; (ii) a study of
budget execution by decentralized agencies; and (iii) a study of the institutional framework for
the Public Investment Program. The studies yielded important recommendations, and the
government has organized programming workshops for implementing them (pursuant to the 2001
budget law.
29.   In the area of basic education, budgetary provisions include: (i) further budgetary
adjustments giving effect to the State's determination to promote basic education, by cutting back
in other budget areas such as defense and security; ii) a major reorientation of external funding
towards the MEBA (Ministry of Basic Education), consistent with the recommendations of the
20/20 initiative; iii) strengthening the operational capacity of the Planning and Studies Directorate
(DEP), as part of a regular (annual or semi-annual) system for evaluating the performance of the
MEBA on the basis of indicators defined in advance by the principal stakeholders; iv)
introduction of an informnation system for analyzing the impact of public spending on basic
education; and v) measures to improve absorptive capacities.
30.   In health area, the Performance Expenditure Review calls for: i) distributing the State
budget among sectors in a manner consistent with the government's commitment to give priority
to the social sectors, and in particular to health and basic education; ii) preparation by the
Ministry of Health of a quarterly expenditure framework, in order to make the program-budget
more effective; iii) ensuring a more appropriate allocation of resources between investment and
recurrent expenditures, in order to make health services more operational. To this end, the
creation of new infrastructure will be cut back, despite the current national insufficiency in such
infrastructure, and existing facilities will be made operational, within norms in terms of their
equipment, personnel and minimum package of services (PMA); iv) further improvements to the
procedure for allocation of appropriations, extending it to a portion of investment spending (Title
6), and implementing a transparent and equitable system for distributing allocations from the
health district to the Health & Social Development Centers (CSPS); vi) obtaining reports on the
CSPS and their client population with respect to their budgetary allocations and examining the
possibility of issuing payment orders at the regional level; vii) targeting health expenditure more
clearly on the most disadvantaged groups, in particular rural populations, women and children.
31.   Two public expenditure reviews are currently underway, one in the rural development
sector and the other in the infrastructure sector. For 2002, expenditure reviews will be conducted
in at least two sectors, justice and trade/commerce.  With respect to justice, the Public
Expenditure Review will allow for a better understanding of budgetary operations, so as to ensure
75



Annex 6
Page 9 of 26
that budgetary allocations are consistent with the national program for reforming the justice
system.
2.1.1.2.2. Performance monitoring indicators
32.    In terms of indicators for monitoring public policies, in July 2000 Burkina Faso
completed an experiment with a new approach to development assistance conditionality. This
test for reformulating conditionality was intended essentially to improve the government's
capacity to define, monitor and evaluate policies and improve the effectiveness of aid, by
monitoring programs on the basis of measurable and previously identified indicators. The idea
was to reach a consensus among all donors on a series of performance indicators for key sectors
of   government   activity,
which would then be used by                 Box 2. REFORMING PUBLIC PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
all parties in taking decisions
with respect to financial aid    As part of the overall reform of budgetary procedures, and in order to ensure greater
disbursements -- preferably   transparency in public procurement. the government has undertaken a review of its general
procurement regulations. This review revealed a number of shortcomings that undermine
in  the  form   of budgetary   the efficiency and effectiveness of operations.
support.    Thanks  to  this
experiment,  the  PRSP  of   First, contract splitting and excessive use of negotiated contracts: the lax nature of
June 2000 included a number   regulations in this area has led to abuse, and this will be addressed by implementing a more
of indicators for  monitoring    effective "locking" system, in particular by limiting the overall amounts authorized Jbr this
of indicators for monitoring    type ofprocurement, and requtiring the contracting authority to demonstrate that sole-souirce
strategies  in  three  areas:   contracting produces savings.
basic education, health and
budgetary management.             Next, there are currently two parallel procedures Jor contracting and control, depending on
whether the source offinancing is domestic orforeign: this system. the legal and technical
justification for which is not clear, has several disadvantages: on one hand, responsibilities
33.    From               this   for controlling procedures are diffiused, and on the other hand, it is difficult to centralize
perspective, the government   information on procurement contracts. The planned reform is intended to establish a single
has    undertaken    regular   sequence of contracting and procurement control.
surveys  in  the   area   of   ally, the excessive concentrationi of procurement approval powers: the lack of delegation of
budgetary   monitoring   in   approval authority often leads to failure to respect tire validity limits of bids, and leads to
order   to   improve   the   frequent requests for price revisions, at great cost to the government budget, and with
availability of information on    considerable delay in disbursing external resources. It is urgent, therefore, to delegate
all public expenditure, and    approval authoritv and to examine the possibility of deconcentrating the procurement
particular  on  the  benefits   process.
produced for target groups:
this information will give the administration an idea of the effectiveness of its efforts in executing
the government budget.
2.1.1.2.3. Government procurement
34.    The concern for transparency must not be allowed to conflict with efficiency. From this
viewpoint, the government, as part of its review of the implementation decree establishing
procurement thresholds, is proceeding to classify entities and standardize thresholds, in light of
the nature and importance of the budgetary resources of these enterprises, their investment
capacity and the volume and frequency of their operating expenditures. The government will
reinforce the personnel of the Central Procurement Directorate, given its key role in contracting
and supervising public procurement, and its current staffing shortage.
76



Annex 6
Page 10 of 26
2.1.1.3. Controls and audits
Box 3. ACCOUNTABILITYREQUIREMEENTS:
35.    Given the importance of the                                 THECFAA
control function in budget execution,   The CF.4A is a tool developed by the World Bank for enforcing accountability
the government has taken steps to   in the management ofthe publicfinances (public sector)/financial management
enhance  the  effectiveness  of the   (private sector). This tool ensures sound and transparent management of
expenditure bv involving, lo the greatest extent possible, all stakeholders in the
entire  control and  audits system.   countrys development: government, internal and external control institutions,
Actions to strengthen internal control   civil society and donors.
have included: i) recent adoption of a
required    list    of    supporting   The CFAA is: 1) a detailed evaluation conducted in collaboration with national
documentation    that   will   be   officials, the Wforld Bank and other donors, ii,) a diagnosis ofproblems, and iii)
verificationat il     b an indicator of risks. The CFAA must not be regarded, however. as an audit or
implemented shortly: ii) verification   as a guarantee of the status of compliance with the obligation of
guides have been prepared, and iii)  accountability. The CFAA provides an overall evaluation of accounting and
the system for filing payment orders   auditing practices.  This will improve understanding of the framework of
has   been   improved,   so   that   accountability in the management of the public finances/private financial
management   accounts   can   be   management. It offers the country and donors a sound appreciation of inherent
prepared in a timely manner. These   fiduciary risks.
measures will be assessed thoroughly to identify and address any weaknesses.  However,
improvements are still needed with respect to expenditures involving external financing (Title
VI): these are subject only to the control of the General Directorate of Cooperation, which
examines disbursement requests. The control of validation exercised by the Central Directorate
of Financial Control continues to be purely formal, and is hardly different from the controls
conducted by the accounting officer (who examines the validity of the claim and the existence of
an available appropriation).
36.    In terms of external control, this was long exercised by the Chamber of Accounts, which
was created in 1991. That institution has functioned for nearly 10 years without any decree
specifying its operating methods. Officers of the Chamber of Accounts have retained their status
as employees of their home department, and the only specific training they have received has
been limited to a short tour of duty with the Cour des Comptes in France. The Chamber
responded only to requests from the President of the Republic and the Assembly, and was not
therefore in a position to define its own program of activities. The controls conducted by the
Chamber were limited to verifying that public accounting rules were being followed, and did not
assess whether public funds were being used appropriately. Because its reports were confidential,
neither the National Assembly nor the government had access to them. There has been virtually
no follow-up, therefore, to the recommendations in these reports.
37.    Aware of the shortcomings, the government undertook in 2000 to create an independent
Audit Court of Accounts with broader powers than those of the Chamber of Accounts. The Audit
Court has senior jurisdiction over the control of the public finances. It inspects the accounts of
the public accounting officers, punishes management errors, and assists the National Assembly in
controlling budgetary execution.  Thanks to its standing responsibilities for investigation,
information and advice, it will help to: i) protect public property and ensure the integrity of the
public finances; ii) improve management methods and techniques; and iii) rationalize
administrative action. It will produce and publish an annual report, and ad hoc reports.
38.    For the period 2001-2003, the government will implement legal, institutional and
operational provisions to make the Audit Court more functional and more effective. These
provisions will the consistent with the conclusions of the Country Financial Accountability
Assessment (CFAA) study now underway. In particular, they will stress the production of
77



Annex 6
Page I1 of 26
information on the results of audits and controls as a means of stimulating and satisfying the
public demand for greater accountability.
39.    With a view to ensuring accountability in public affairs, the government prepared draft
budget execution reports for the period 1995-1998. Those drafts were submitted to the Nationlal
Assembly for examination and adoption. Similarly, during 2000 it adopted a decree imposing an
annual audit on military expenditures. These efforts will be pursued with the issuance of draft
budget execution reports for the fiscal years 1999 and 2000, and for the next three years.
consistent with the deadlines established by the Financial Regime.
40.   In the broader context of sound governance, the government plans to establish a
"Governance Observatory" that will monitor and evaluate measures taken under the current
reforms, and will implement the national governance plan. The "Observatory" will represent an
information system that will provide the needed signals to all parties involved in the area of
governance.
2.1.2. Enhancing public participation
41.   Burkina Faso has a tradition of participatory development. Thus, preparation of the
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper in 2000 was preceded by a process of consultation at four
levels: i) within the administration; ii) with the people's representative institutions; iii) with
development partners and; iv) with civil society and other local stakeholders.
42.    Within the administration, this dialogue began with a government report on the entire
process. All ministries were sensitized to the importance of this new approach (focusing the
entire development strategy on the objective of poverty reduction) and were requested to
contribute their thoughts. Next, an interministerial committee was established, consisting of
directors of studies and planning, to consider and assess the preliminary results of the household
living standards survey. The committee divided itself into four thematic groups (improving the
economic status of the poor, development of human resources, natural resource management,
better governance and aid coordination) and proceeded to consider the separate elements of the
strategy. Next, technical meetings were held within the public administration on the basic
documents prepared by the interministerial committee.
43.   In terms of representative institutions, before it was officially forwarded to international
financial institutions the PRSP prepared by the government was the subject of a presentation by
the Minister of Economy and Finance to the two chambers of Parliament (National Assembly and
Chamber of Representatives) and the Economic and Social Council. The representatives of the
people and of civil society who make up those institutions gave almost unanimous approval to the
government's choices, and to the selective and realistic approach underlying those choices.
44.    With the country's development partners, two meetings were held. The first, on February
15, 2000, which included members of the government, allowed for the exchange of ideas alld
information with external partners on the process of preparing the PRSP. At the second meeting,
on February 28, 2000, comments were received from some partners on the initial outline of the
framework document.  Further technical meetings were subsequently held to finalize the
document. During those meetings it was confirmed that the government's approach in preparing
the PRSP was consistent with that discussed with donors during an important initiative for testing
a reformulated conditionality in Burkina Faso. Recognizing that the ultimate goal of any
development exercise is to improve living conditions, particularly for the most disadvantaged, the
78



Annex 6
Page 12 of 26
government undertook in 1997, with the support of its development partners, to implement a test
of a new approach to conditionality.
Box 4. "OWNERSHIP" OF THE PRSP
45.    Two  regional  workshops  were
organized  with  civil society  and  other   As part of the process of publicizing the PRSP. a workshop was
stakeholders, in Ouahigouya (North) and in   organized by thte "network of infbrmation communication and training
Bobo-Dioulasso (West), on February 23 and   for women in NGOs" (RECF/NGO), aimed at regional economic and
planning directors (DREP,) and JO ]tmale, social workers.
March 3, 2000.  These workshops were   Communications dealt with: I) conceptual approaches to poverty in
intended to inform  representatives of civil   Burkinai Faso: ii) the H'IPC initiative and its execution in Burkina Faso;
society, the deconcentrated administrations,   iii) the process of preparation, thze outlook and the strategy for reducing
the   private   sector   and   producers   povertv; and iv) the monitoring tool put in place by the government.
associations about the results of the Second    This choice reflected the concern that local resource persons should
associations about the results of the Second    appropriate or develop a sense of ownership over the PRSP and commit
Priority survey (EPII) and to gather their  themselves to publicizing the document in the various regions, analyzing
opinions and contributions for improving   it critically and securing contributions from grassroots organizations for
the  basic  documents  prepared  by  the   updating it. There are also plans to translate an executive summary of
interministerial committee. Large numbers   the PRSI into the three major languages, to assist in its dissemination,
of association officials representing a broad   _
spectrum of Burkinabe society were thus able to put forward their priorities in the struggle against
poverty and to contribute effectively to the search for solutions.  The members of the
interministerial committee working on the PRSP listened to these proposals and prepared
summaries that were used in drafting the document.
46.    The present PRSP is thus a synthesis of all the ideas and opinions gathered throughout
the country, not only during the five months over which it was drafted (November 1999-April
2000), but also in the meetings and forums organized on various themes in the course of recent
years. This new strategy will have an impact on the consolidation of the democratic reforms now
underway. In fact, collective adherence to democratic values will be reinforced by better
performance in priority social sectors. Democracy must help improve the welfare of the most
disadvantaged social classes if they are not to become disillusioned with it.
47.    Drawing upon the experience with preparing the 2000 PRSP, the government intends to
organize the evaluation and review of the PRSP in a setting involving all development
stakeholders. It is currently preparing for a series of consultations that will be conducted in July
2001 with civil society, local communities, the private sector, the deconcentrated administration,
and poor groups. Four regional workshops are planned for consensus building and exchange of
views on the major thematic thrusts of the PRSP.
48.    The Tenkodogo workshop is focused on human resource development and poverty
reduction; it will provide an opportunity to discuss issues relating to the improvement of health
and education systems, so as to make them more accessible to the poor. The Ouahigouya
workshop will address rural development issues in terms of agricultural productivity, clarification
of land title, natural resource management, farmers' appropriation of improvements and the
availability of water. The Bobo workshop will examine competitiveness issues, with an emphasis
on ways to reduce factor costs. Finally, the Ouagadougou workshop will look at issues
concerning sound governance. It will provide an opportunity for in-depth discussion of progress
in the battle to counter corruption and to promote democratic openness, transparency in public
management and enhanced levels of participation.
79



Annex 6
Page 13 of 26
2.1.3. Strengthening competition
49.    The government is aware that if economic growth is to be sustainable and of benefit to
the poorest, the economy must be made more competitive by reinforcing human resources,
proceeding with domestic liberalization and opening the economy to the region and the world.
50.   Efforts are now underway to liberalize markets by suppressing monopolies and duopolies
and by privatizing public enterprises in order to create conditions favorable to growth of the
private sector. The market will be opened gradually in the process of establishing the WAEMU
economic space, pursuant to the Treaty of Union and the ECOWAS, relating to rights of
establishment and free circulation of goods and persons. As part of the new program in support
of competitiveness, a competitiveness committee will be established, embracing professional
associations and "economic interest groups".
51.   The government is convinced that competition must be properly organized if it is to be
beneficial. This is why operations are regularly conducted in relation to the private sector and the
support of industrial units, as part of the battle against fraud and unfair competition. Similarly,
the government has launched a review of legislation governing the National Competition and
Consumption Commission to give it the means for carrying out its responsibilities effectively. In
support of this initiative, and in order to strengthen the transparency of public procurement and
thereby enhance free and fair competition for all economic operators, an analysis of government
procurement has been produced and adopted. The following stages will involve the review of the
procedures that are now being prepared, and that could enter into force by the end of the year.
2.2.   Major Sectoral Reforms
2.2.1. The Priority Sectors
2.2.1.1. Education
52.   Education is unquestionably one of the principal basic social sectors.  The close
correlation between a person's education and income, and thus poverty, has made this sector a
magnet for major national development efforts. It is important to note that there can be no true
development without improving the quality of human resources, which have always constituted a
nation's primary wealth.
53.   This is why Burkina Faso has taken the following steps to enhance the quality of
education: (a) regularly distributing textbooks, so as to ensure an average of one book for every
two students in the basic subjects; (b) improving the qualifications and skills of teachers,
especially in rural areas; and (c) introducing bilingual education on an experimental basis.
Overall, these advances have made it possible to reduce the disparities in school performance.
54.   The government ordered a review of public spending in the basic education/literacy
subsector, which revealed disparities in education between rural and urban areas, between boys
and girls, and from one region to the next. The results of this study have put the government and
its partners on notice that important problems persist. To address these problems, the global
policy for development of the education system up to the year 2010 is based on the following tvo
principles:  increasing the coverage of basic education with a view to ensuring universal
education and improving its quality; and, ensuring that development of the system of education,
including the post-primary school level, will meet the demand for educated labor, and that
students graduating from the system will meet the needs of the economy in terms of quantity and
80



Annex 6
Page 14 of 26
quality. The plan for the next ten years is therefore to pursue this priority policy for enhancing
the quantity and quality of basic education, but also to work towards developing post-primary
education to some extent. The objectives are to create a better-balanced system as a whole, to
respond to the aspirations of part of the population in this regard, and to provide a basis for
meeting the development needs of the urban and rural informal sector and modern employment
sector.
2.2.1.2. Health
55.   The government continues to be concerned over the need to improve access to health
care. It finalized its national health policy in September 2000. The policy contains a diagnosis of
priority health problems and establishes national guidelines in the field of health. Its objectives
are as follows: i) increase national health coverage; ii) improve the quality and use of health
services; iii) optimize management of human resources; iv) make health services more affordable
for the population; v) reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS; vi) promote the health of vulnerable
groups; and, vii) strengthen the institutional capacity of the Health Ministry. These objectives are
reflected in the National Health Development Plan adopted by the government in June 2001. The
priority activities outlined in the poverty reduction strategy are also part of this plan.
56.These activities are also based on the public expenditure review of the health sector conducted
in the course of 2000. This review made it possible to analyze the effectiveness, transparency,
and equity of spending in the sector. It included recommendations that were the basis of a plan of
action, which is being implemented under the 2001 budget. Among other things, the government
has stepped up efforts to put in place delegated credits for the use of deconcentrated units of the
Health Ministry (regional health departments and health districts), and it has taken steps to ensure
that the Ministry has a satisfactory budget execution rate. As for the health system and health
indicators, the government is seeking lasting solutions to the problems identified in the National
Health Development Plan which it adopted in early June 2001. Three objectives were set to
improve access to health care by the poor. They are: i) improving the health indicators for the
poorest segment of the population; ii) limiting the impact of health care payments on the income
of poor households; and, iii) involving the poorest users and communities in health decisions.
57.To improve the health indicators of the poorest population, a program to combat certain
diseases is being carried out by developing a health care package comprising the expanded
vaccination program, and elimination or control of diseases such as dracunculosis, leprosy,
tuberculosis, sexually transmitted infections, HIV/AIDS, and malaria, by focusing on micro-
planning and monitoring at the level of the CSPS (Health & Social Development Centers.
Moreover, special emphasis is placed on malnutrition and maternal and child health by
establishing standards and protocols. The lower-risk maternity program will also be evaluated,
with a view to extending it to all districts. As an integral part of the national health information
system, epidemiological surveillance is provided in all health districts, and is being financing
under the project for support of integral epidemiological surveillance.
58.   In this same context, the government has adopted rigorous measures to provide
preventive health care free of charge. This care includes prenatal medical visits and routine
vaccinations (vaccination booklets). It has also worked to lower the costs borne by CAMEG
(Procurement Center for Essential Generic Drugs) in conjunction with the MEG (essential generic
drug) prices charged by the warehouses in the CSPS. To make further progress in adopting
measures of this sort, the government is planning to evaluate implementation of the Bamako
Initiative.
81



Anne): 6
Page 15 of 26
59.    To improve the quality and accessibility of health services, a human resource
development policy needs to be put in place to better monitor people living in rural areas. To this
end, the government will continue efforts to assign sufficient numbers of skilled health care
personnel in rural areas by developing arrangements for regionalization of the practice of
recruiting and contracting personnel.  Health districts will now be able to hire personnel
independently. As part of its effort to ensure health protection for the poorest segments of the
population by providing basic care at affordable costs, the government is planning to enhance the
availability of MEG at all MEG warehouses.
60.    The issue of people's health is a responsibility of the entire community, and that is why
efforts have been made to involve all the people. Management committees (COGES) have been
set up on a micro-planning basis in most health districts. At the present time, the trend is to
encourage the participation of women in the decision-making process of COGES.
2.2.1.3. Rural Development
61.   In the early  1990, the government undertook important reforms to improve the
performance of the agricultural and livestock sectors. These reforms led to significant advances
in liberalizing trade in farm products (traditional grains and rice) and in privatizing a certain
number of state-run agro-industrial enterprises.
62.   In view of the importance of agriculture and livestock in the struggle against poverty,
which affects the majority of people living in rural areas, Burkina Faso has endeavored to support
and strengthen these achievements by adopting a strategy for sustainable growth in agriculture in
1999 and an Operational Strategic Plan to implement it. Under this plan, the government's
objectives for the next ten years (up to 2010) are as follows: i) to increase agricultural production
from 5 to 10% on average; ii) to help increase the income of farmers so as to improve their
standard of living and reduce the impact of poverty in rural areas; iii) to create conditions
conducive to ensuring that the people have access to a sufficient supply of balanced food; iv) to
extend and strengthen the practice of sustainable management of natural resources by rural
communities; and v) to increase the productivity and competitiveness of agricultural and livestock
products.
63.    With regard to sectoral strategies and reforms already in place, and with a view tso
ensuring that there is a synergy in the actions undertaken on behalf of rural people, so as to make
them more effective, a decentralized rural development policy letter was drafted in 2000. The
rural development that the government will promote is based on the following principles: making
the grassroots communities fully accountable from planning to implementation and management
of projects; expanding the field of investments financed by projects and programs, in order to
respond to their priorities; refocusing the role of the state and involving private operators and
civil society; cofinancing investments; consultation and cooperation at all levels; and, flexibility
by adapting tools to local specificities.
64.    In line with government policy orientations, the plan of action for livestock farming is
designed to: protect traditional livestock farming and enhance productivity, so as to increase the
income of traditional livestock farmers; encourage and accelerate development of modern
livestock farming to interest new persons and create jobs; and, intensify all activities conducive to
increasing the contribution of livestock farming to the balance of payments, to a higher value
added, and to food security. This plan is based on a strategy designed to: i) optimize the
country's natural resources, from the standpoint of production and productivity; ii) offer the best
possible conditions to encourage the private sector and livestock associations to take charge of
82



Annex 6
Page 16 of 26
development activities; and, iii) refocus the government's role and functions, and make sure it has
the means to improve its decentralization efforts.
65.    To increase access to land by the poor texts on agrarian and land reform have been
reviewed to take into account recent developments in the country. Implementation of these laws,
however, is still very limited, even though it is a key part of the initiatives to reduce poverty. In
fact, the distribution and ownership of land, and especially arable land (including the granting of
title deeds), have a decisive impact on the production, income, and living conditions of poor rural
households. Besides access to the land as a productive agricultural resource, land is also valued
as capital, the principal asset of poor households. It is also possible to give it a trading value, to
ensure that this natural resource is allocated as effectively as possible among the various possible
uses and that it therefore works to improve the well-being of the poor. Finally, land, which is
frequently the only asset of poor households, can be used as collateral for loans or credits, in
cases involving the financing of micro-infrastructure or income-generating activities.
66.    Population growth and poverty exert a heavy pressure on natural resources, the main
asset in the hands of the poor. This situation has led to abuses in the exploitation of natural
resources, and this tends to jeopardize the sustainability of development activities. The poverty
reduction strategy will be based on an effort to strike a balance between the people's needs and
the sustainable management of available resources.
2.2.1.4. Drinking Water
67 The status of the water supply is that coverage rates are insufficient despite efforts to equip
the country with supply centers. As far as health and sanitation are concerned, the situation is
even more troubling, especially in rural areas, thereby accentuating the risks of mortality and
morbidity resulting from water-related diseases linked to the unhealthiness of the water and the
habitat.
68. There are about 36,000 water points (essentially boreholes and wells) in Burkina Faso's rural
areas, and they supply water to about 92 percent of the rural population at an average
consumption rate of 20 liters/day per inhabitant. It should be noted, however, that this rate of
coverage is very unevenly distributed among the country's various regions. In addition, 20
percent of these waterpoints are non-functioning, and this situation reduces service coverage and
access to potable water all the more. Starting in June 1995, in order to afford all populations
better access to potable water, a neighborhood water supply approach was developed based on the
following criteria: I water point for every 300 inhabitants and a carrying distance of 300 meters.
Moreover, in order to determine realistic potable water supply coverage rates, the thinking since
that time has tended to revise the criteria and standards for potable water supply service for rural,
semi-urban and urban populations. The Government's strategy is to finance the rehabilitation of
existing infrastructures, to hand over to communities the responsibility for managing and
selecting infrastructures, and to rely increasingly on the private sector to carry out the works.
69. Potable water supply in urban areas is provided by 36 centers and five small operations and
reaches about 78 percent of the urban population, although the rate of direct connection to the
potable water network - only about 30 percent --is low. The Government's strategy consists of
the following: (i) achieve financial equilibrium in the urban water supply sub-sector by December
2006; (ii) encourage the development of potable water supply connections for the most
disadvantaged populations; and (iii) improve ONEA's operational efficiency by turning over the
management of its commercial, financial and accounting operations to an international private
operator until 2006.
83



Annex 6
Page 17 of:26
2.2.2. The Other Sectors
2.2.2.1. Energy
70. The government is well aware that economic growth and poverty reduction also require that
efforts be made to ensure regular supplies of energy to the people at the lowest costs. As part of
its strategy, it intends to give the private sector responsibility for providing low-cost energy
products to the population and it intends to strengthen its regulatory capacity, and its capacity to
formulate policies and monitor the sector. In pursuit of these plans, it adopted a Letter of
Development Policy for the Energy Sector in December 2000.  In that framework, two
institutions will be established. One, an agency to coordinate policy formulation and monitoring,
will comprise the government administration, the private sector, and consumers, and the other
will consist of a unit to implement the program of reform and development of the sector.
71. In keeping with the decisions made by ECOWAS, the government intends to step up the
work on regional interconnection and to liberalize the production and distribution of electricity.
All of these measures are designed to increase production capacity and reduce electricity costs.
The electricity law adopted in 1998 will be amended to open up the production and distribution of
electricity to the private sector, and a law on petroleum products will be adopted before
privatizing SONABEL for the electricity subsector, for opening up the capital of SONABH-Y to
private firms for the oil subsector. The need to increase the country's energy capacity led to the
implementation of the interconnection with the network in Cote d'Ivoire. This has been
operational since April 2001, and negotiations are underway with the authorities of Ghana for the
interconnection Bolgatanga-Bagre-Ouagadougou (Ghana-Burkina Faso). This process will also
foster rural electrification, which will contribute to transform the rural environment by improving
living conditions, increasing the productivity of rural work and enterprises, and strengthening
local communities. Over a hundred of departmental towns are already supplied with electricity
through a system of photovoltaic plates. Negotiations to supply new towns are being conducted
with outside financial partners.
72.   In the area of traditional energy resources, Denmark, Norway, and the Netherlands are
providing support to Burkina Faso for rational management of the subsector, by means of
programs for the participatory management of forest and alternative resources. These programs
will include the development of policy design and planning capacities, and will comprise the
following activities: i) effective integration of the traditional and alternative energy subsector
into the country's energy policy; ii) introduction of a regulatory and rate-setting framework
designed to liberalize the subsector; iii) preparation of an investment program to ensure rational
management of the subsector based on the lessons learned from the pilot programs underway; and
iv) development of the capacity to ensure the coordinated management of the different
stakeholders in the subsector.
2.2.2.2. Transportation
73.    Given that the country is landlocked, the transportation sector, and particularly land-
based transport, plays a preponderant role in the national as well as regional economies, and this
sector covers over 95% of the demand for transport of people and goods of the main segments cf
the transport market, namely: i) Burkina's domestic trade; ii) Burkina's domestic trade with
distant countries; iii) trade with neighboring countries and; iv) regional traffic and transit.
74. The Government is convinced that any improvement in competitiveness and economic
efficiency must necessarily be preceded by a reduction in the cost of the various links in the
84



Annex 6
Page 18 of 26
national and international transport chain, while services are simultaneously maintained at
acceptable levels of promptness, cost, quality and safety. In May 2000, the Government therefore
prepared, in collaboration with all those involved in the sector, a strategy for developing the
transport sector, as well as a program of priority investments covering the next six years (2002-
2007). This strategy was subject to a nationwide review, in which all our development partners
participated, and they indicated their support regarding the choice of policies and the priority
expenditures aimed at: increasing the sector's contribution to the country's economic growth;
strengthening the competitiveness of the nation's economy; reducing poverty by improving
access to basic services in rural areas; and supporting decentralization by ensuring the required
liaisons between the chief towns of the newly autonomous communes and regionalized
departements.
75. With this in mind, the Government's strategic choices in the transportation sector are the
following: (i) consolidation and development of the country's road network through emphasis
upon: ongoing maintenance financed with domestic resources; periodic maintenance of dirt roads
and rehabilitation of critical-use road networks with the financial support of the development
partners; (ii) development of rural transport (infrastructure and services), with the participation of
local communities and the private sector, in order to improve the population's access to basic
services; (iii) improvements to the regulatory environment and the conditions under which
transporters operate (e.g., tax measures and import legislation), in order to increase the quality
and reliability of the supply of land-based transport through the emergence of private professional
operators that are efficient and competitive at the national and sub-regional levels; (iv)
enhancement of managerial capacity in the sector through the provision of human resources in the
public sector that are capable of formulating, implementing and monitoring sectoral development
policies and of providing the necessary support and aid to the private sector. A strategy will also
be developed to protect the urban environment, improve road safety and expand urban transport,
in order to improve transportation conditions for vulnerable populations in the main cities.
2.2.2.3. Urban Issues
76. The public construction program undertaken from 1984 to 1988 created several hundred
housing units at moderate costs. In addition, to improve the living conditions of the poor, and
specifically their housing, steps were taken to reduce construction costs by promoting the use of
local materials.
77. Housing issues have been a constant matter of concern of the government and, in its strategy
to improve supply of housing it has taken steps to attract private property developers. Facilities
have been put in place by banks to improve access. In parallel, the government has encouraged
various municipalities to proceed with large scale allotments so that land would be made
available to urban populations, notably those living in slums. At the same time, the government is
working toward removing obstacles to adequate financing and development of housing in the
country (limited number of land titles and urban permits, cumbersome procedures on land
upgrade before obtaining permits to reside, low transparency of land market). The government
intends to improve land markets and to increase reliability of information and documentation
related to land tenure by abolishing the authorization to upgrade land to be obtained prior to the
release of urban housing permits, and by computerizing land management and land advertising.
The decentralization process also gave impetus to the development of urban municipalities by
revitalizing road and sanitation networks. The Decentralization Law allows for creation of new
municipalities in rural areas, and the government is committed to a timely transfer of
responsibilities and resources to these new entities.  Income generating activities and provision
of basic infrastructure will foster local development. This will in turn reduce rural exodus which
85



Annex 6
Page 19 of 26
puts pressure on large urban centers and drains rural areas of human resources necessary for
production..
2.2.2.4. Promotion of the Private Sector
78.   To allow for the private sector to participate fully in development of the economy,
various steps have been taken since 1991 to liberalize markets, privatize, restructure companies
with public capital, and reform administrative regulations.
79. Market liberalization is primarily focused on reforms to eliminate monopoly over productive,
competitive sectors. In the field of telecommunications, liberalization has been initiated in the
area of mobile telephony, among others, with the entry of two new operators on this market arnd
the upcoming opening of ONATEL's and SONABHY's capital to private operators on the basis
of competitive bidding.
80.   As for privatization, out of 44 companies with public capital, 22 have been privatized to
date, 10 have been liquidated, and the rest have been restructured. In addition, a bill to authorize
the privatization of around twenty companies in which the government is a shareholder was
submitted to the National Assembly following a study conducted on the government's residual
portfolio.
81.   In the field of transportation, to ensure greater fluidity, the market, which has been
liberalized since 1993, is going to receive a new boost with the ongoing studies to privatize
management of the Bobo and Ouagadougou airports.
82. As for reform of the central government, measures have been undertaken to reduce and
simplify administrative procedures. In this regard, specific steps have been taken to reduce tlie
delivery time of CNC and after clearing customs. Moreover, the restructuring and strengthening
of the "single windows" center (CGU) has been in effect since January 2001, with the regrouping
of the offices in question. This has made it possible to cut the processing time and to accelerate
the relevant formalities.
83. With a view to creating an environment conducive to promoting SME/SMI, reforrns
essentially have focused on a review of government monopolies, simplification of the required
procedures for establishing companies and making investments, an improvement in the
arrangement for support to economic operators, and anti-fraud measures.
84. In the review of government monopolies, the measures primarily concern the electricity.
hydrocarbon, and telecommunications sectors.
85. In simplifying the formalities for establishing enterprises and making investments, a report
was adopted by the Council of Ministers on July 20, 2000, and draft laws are being studied in the
different structures. The formalities for establishing firms have been reduced from a total of 15 to
8.
86.   To improve the mechanism for support to economic operators, the National Foreign
Trade Board (ONAC) set up the Trade-Point in 2001, to gather and disseminate data to requesting
parties. In the same context, establishment of the entrepreneur's association is in advanced
stages, with the creation of a steering committee.
86



Annex 6
Page 20 of 26
3.    PARTIAL RESULTS ON IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PRSP
87. In the course of 2000, the government pursued a policy to minimize financial imbalances
with a view to consolidating the economic growth and stabilization results it had achieved in
recent years. Since adoption of the PRSP by all the government's partners and stakeholders
(June-July 2000), the government tackled implementation of the four strategic areas it had
defined to reduce the impact of poverty and give the poorest segments of society the means to
ensure their social development.
88. To ensure that all conditions for the program's success were in place, it set up a participatory
process for coordinating and monitoring implementation of the strategy, structured on three tiers,
as follows: i) a decision-making tier (the ministerial committee for supervising the PRSP); ii) a
technical tier (the interministerial technical committee for monitoring the PRSP), and; iii) an
operational tier (sectoral groups for monitoring the PRSP). In view of the intersectoral nature of
the activities planned under the program, thematic working groups comprising several sectors
were set up as the forums for discussion among the administration, development partners, and
civil society. T hese working groups were based on the experience acquired from 1997 to 2000 in
revising donor support conditionality.
3.1. The Macro-economic Framework
89. Burkina's economy experienced particularly unfavorable impacts from exogenous variables
in the course of 2000. The increase in dollar and oil prices, poor climate conditions during the
year, the decline in repatriation of savings, and a large reflux of Burkina nationals who had been
living abroad all contributed to the slowdown in economic growth. Thus, the real GDP grew by
2.2%, as compared to 5.8% in 1999. The government is aware that in view of the 6.9% target set
in the poverty reduction strategy, efforts should be pursued in the area of rigorous budget
management and an acceleration of the structural reforms designed to revitalize the private sector
and liberalize the economy.
90.   As for price trends, following a good grain harvest in 1999, the consumer price index
declined slightly on average in 2000. However, a general upward trend was noted for the first
quarter of 2001, after the poor harvest in 2000 (6.7% shift by the end of March 2001). The
balance of payments deficit on current account deteriorated (to 14.5% of GDP). This is mostly
attributed to the drop in cotton exports and repatriation of savings, the rise in the price of
hydrocarbons, and to the continued high level of imports of capital goods financed abroad.
91. With regard to budget execution, in spite of the controls adopted by the government in the
second half of 2000, the primary balance (i.e., total expenditures net of grants less total
expenditures net of investments financed using outside resources) was recorded at CFAF 33
billion in 2000, or 2.1% of GDP, and the overall budget deficit (including grants and on a cash
basis) was posted at around 4.3% of GDP. This reflects the government's effort to reduce the
CFAF II billion backlog of non-mandated commitments. The status of public finance was
marked primarily by a decline in budget revenues. Fiscal receipts amounted to CFAF 203 billion
(12.8% of GDP) in 2000, which was nearly CFAF 24 billion less than PRSP targets. This
shortfall is primarily linked to lower receipts from taxes on income and profits and from customs
duties, stemming from the slowdown in growth and consumption, and the unexpectedly heavy
impact from implementation of WAEMU's common external tariff.
92. To counter the deterioration in the budget as a result of the drop in revenues and the small
amount of outside funds mobilized, the government initiated steps to curb public spending during
87



Annex 6
Page 21 of 26
the second half of 2000. These measures made it possible to contain current expenditures at
CFAF 191.5 billion. Investment spending financed out of the country's own capital was held to
47.4 billion, as compared to the estimate of 49.1 billion.
93. Overall, the need for financing with regard to financial operations was covered as follows: i)
a mobilization of budgetary support, aside from the IMF facility, well below forecasts (22.9
billion against an estimate of 36.7 billion in adjustment loans and grants); ii) a significant
increase (8.8 billion) in Treasury deposits; iii) a deterioration of the Net Treasury Position vis-a-
vis the Central Bank (+ CFAF 18.2 billion). Financial operations were marked by accumulated
arrears on domestic spending of nearly 1.9 billion. Revenue from privatization brought in an
exceptional CFAF 14.6 billion, from the sale of mobile telephone licenses.
94. Despite cash problems during the year, the government continued to increase spending on the
social sectors, which accounted for about 20% of total government expenditures, or nearly 5.6%
of GDP. The resources effectively mobilized as a result of the basic HIPC initiative were
allocated to the sectors of primary education (40% of the total) and health (35% of the total), and
then to development of rural roads to open up rural areas. Overall, the resources allocated to the
social sectors in the course of the year came to 6.1% of GDP.
3.1.1. Competitiveness of the Economy and Regional Integration
95. To improve the economy's overall competitiveness, the government pursued a policy to
control the costs of factors of production, in keeping with the commitments it made under the
PRSP.
96. As far as taxes affecting businesses in the fornal sector are concerned, the government took
steps to lighten their tax burden. The government also initiated a study on the effective marginal
tax rates that will enable it to better determine the macro-economic consequences of a reduction
in business taxes. The preliminary report on the study is expected to come out in June 2001.
97. At the same time, oil taxes were reformned under the 2001 budget, and the Council of
Ministers approved the new rate schedule for oil products on February 7, 2001. The new pricing
system for oil products will be based every month on the average FOB-MES prices recorded from
the 1It to the 25'h of the previous month and converted into CFA francs at the average
CFAF/dollar rate in effect for that period, plus market access costs and applicable taxes. An item
for recovery of import losses accumulated by SONABHY was introduced into the price structure,
to allow for the replenishment of the security stock and its cash balances. This item will be
eliminated when SONABfIY has managed to gradually replenish both its security stock and its
cash position. The new rate schedule will be based on taxes on products, which have also been
revised to bring them into line with WAEMU regulations.
98. The new tax system can be broken down as follows: i) customs taxes and duties observing
the TEC rates of WAEMU, applied on the import-parity values, as defined above; ii) the specific
tax on oil products, now known as the tax on oil products, fixed once a year in the context of the
budget. However, to mitigate the negative impact of the annual fixing of this tax, in exceptional
circumstances, such as extremely high or low world rates for oil or the dollar, the government
may modify the amount in question by decree; and iii) the VAT, which will be applied to oil
products at the normal rate of 18%. In any event, the price structure adopted on February 7, 2001
and the one in effect since March 19, 2001 are in line with this new rate schedule.
88



Annex 6
Page 22 of 26
99. Burkina Faso's competitiveness is impeded by high factors costs, including those for
telecommunications, electricity, water and transportation.  To address these concerns, the
government aims to put in place appropriate regulatory mechanisms. In the telecommunications
sector, the installation of ARTEL in May 2000 has resulted in lower fees for these services. In
the electricity sector, discussions of the need for establishing electric interconnection with the
Ivory Coast has been underway since August 2000 and become a reality since April 2001.
Similar discussions are underway with neighboring Ghana. For the water supply sector,
regulation is currently carried out by the government. User fees are revised periodically to take
into account changes in the cost of production and profit margins of firms. Modifications
introduced this year are expected to cover the period 2001-05. In the transportation sector, the
government's privatization strategy has resulted in a drop in costs. Nevertheless, a number of
institutions continue to benefit from their monopoly status, such as those serving the
Ouagadougou metropolis and those operating between urban centers as well as the country's
airline network.  Policy measures to stimulate competition amongst urban transportation
providers and to open up the airline market are expected to improve efficiency and trigger price
reductions. Moreover, the completion of the corridor linking Burkina to neighboring Ghana is
expected to stimulate competition with existing ports in Togo and in Ivory Coast, and to lead to a
reduction in transportation costs.
100.  Efforts are being pursued to liberalize markets, including elimination of monopolies and
duopolies, and to privatize public enterprises, through licensing, sale of shares and assets to
private firms, or liquidation, for the primary purpose of creating a climate to foster development
of the private sector. In the electricity sector for instance, steps taken include approval of the
development policy letter for the energy sector in December 2000, and preparation of a timetable
for implementing the measures involved. In the telecommunications sector, the mobile telephone
market was liberalized with the introduction on the market of two private operators, TLELCEL
and CELTEL, and the Telecommunications Regulatory Authority (ARTEL) was created.
Markets were also liberalized in the transport sector, with the privatization of enterprises.
101.  In the area of reform of the government administration, the following efforts have been
made: i) national laws have been brought into line with the provisions of the Organization for the
Harmonization of Business Law in Africa (OHADA); ii) processing time has been reduced; iii)
administrative procedures for establishing companies have been simplified and condensed to 8,
with a target of 4 procedures; and iv) a National Commission on Competition and Consumer
Affairs (CNCC) has been created.
102.  All these measures and activities have been undertaken to strengthen the position of
Burkina Faso in the regional integration process in the framework of WAEMU, which, while
providing an unprecedented opportunity for the country's economic development, involves social
costs and risks as well. These have to do mostly with the impact of the ongoing reforms on the
poorest segments of the population. The government is therefore working to reinforce attendant
regional solidarity measures to ensure consistency and synergy between national and regional
policies to combat poverty.
3.1.2. Support for Productive Sectors
103.  For the agricultural sector, the government has taken steps to grant tax benefits to
evolving firms in industries identified as part of the global strategy to combat poverty (cotton,
fruits and vegetables, and vegetable/ edible oils). The government's policy to pull out of
productive, competitive sectors is being pursued with a proposed new list of 20 enterprises to be
privatized. An initial program has led to the privatization of 44 state-run enterprises, 26 of which
89



Annex 6
Page 23 of 26
were privatized. However, monopolistic situations still exist in certain sectors, and this explains
why factor costs have remained at very high levels. Action has been taken. to support the sector
by putting in place a new program to foster competitiveness between now and the end of 2002.
3.1.3. HIPC Resources and Priorities for Reducing Poverty
104.  Creation of a climate conducive to economic grow-th and transformnation of the economy
is a prerequisite for poverty reduction.  It is impossible to reduce poverty without global
economic growth. In this context, approval of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) bv
the World Bank in June 2000 and by the International Monetary Fund in July of that year has
enabled the country to benefit from the debt relief initiative for the heavily indebted poor
countries. Since that time, the government has focused on implementing the poverty reduction
strategy and on preparing for the enhanced HIPC initiative.
105.  On September 12, 2000, the government's Council of Ministers approved decisions to
devote all the resources from debt relief measures to the following sectors: basic education (40%
of the resources in 2000 and 39.4% in 2001); health (35% in 2000 and 37.4% in 2001); rural
roads (25% in 2000 and 9.4% in 2001); agriculture (8.6% in 2001); livestock farming (5% in
2000); and, drinking water (0.2% in 2001). It took steps to provide for the effective management
of these resources, including the following ones: i)creation of special Treasury account No. 960-
9, opened on the books of the Paymaster General and known as the "Special Growth and Poverty
Reduction Fund," where all the revenue and expenses for operations under the HIPC initiative
will be recorded. This account operates on the same conditions as the government budget; ii)
adoption of a corrective appropriation law for earmarking the funds expected in 2000 and
authorization granted by the National Assembly to the Minister of Economy and Finance to
proceed with distribution by decree of the resources expected in 2001; iii) adoption of special
measures to step up procedures for use of these resources and to ensure transparent management
of public finance; iv) initiation of an audit of military accounts for the 1999 fiscal year, and
budget execution reports for the fiscal years 1995-98; v) easing of terms and conditions for
government procurement; and, vi) designation of an implementing agency (Faso Baara) for
construction of infrastructure.
106.  Moreover, the creditors involved in the HIPC initiative were approached to ensure an
effective mobilization of the expected resources in 2000. By December 3 1. 2000, about CFAF
7.2 billion of the estimated 10.25 billion had been effectively mobilized to the benefit of the basic
education (40%) and health (35%) sectors, and for infrastructure, housing. and urban
development (25%), while CFAF 2.859 billion is expected to be mobilized for the first quarter of
2001.
107.  In recent years, there has been a generally satisfactory trend in patterns of public
spending. Expenditure patterns reflect key priorities such as basic health, primary education and
rural road construction. Executed budgets are consistent with budgetary allocations, with high
physical execution rates in terms of the provision of basic school and health facility equipment.
108.  In any event, implementation of the PRSP has been progressing satisfactorily. However,
progress has fallen short of the mark in some areas, such as the delays in conducting the
additional surveys needed to carry out the in-depth analysis of poverty in Burkina Faso.
Moreover, it is noted that difficulties persist in the operation of special account No. 960-9,
primarily attributed to the long procedures involved in mobilizing the resources under the HIPC
initiative. As for preparation of the decision point for the enhanced initiative, the government
90



Annex 6
Page 24 of 26
implemented all the measures stipulated under the terms and conditions defined by the March 31,
2001 deadline.
3.2. Access to Basic Social Services
3.2.1. Education
109.  In the field of basic education, steps were taken to attain the objectives in this area in the
framework of the first year of the PRSP. These steps included an increased share of the budget
for the Ministry of Basic Education, and institutional measures to facilitate implementation of the
Ten-Year Basic Education Plan as well as to ensure transfers of power under the decentralization
process.
110.  Measures to revise the bylaws of National Schools for Elementary School Teachers were
adopted at the April 4, 2001 Council of Ministers. A plan to improve the quality and relevance of
education was adopted by the Council of Ministers on March 29, 2001, and an educational policy
letter on regulation of the flow among the different schools was adopted by the government on
March 28, 2001. The purpose of this move is to enhance the quality and effectiveness of primary
education so as to achieve the 70% school attendance target set by the government by the year
2009. As for the education policy declaration, appropriate steps were taken to implement it.
111.  In addition to these institutional measures, specific action was taken to support the
poorest people. Out of the 2.621 billion allocated to the basic education sector, 2.343 billion
was used to build school infrastructure, equip classrooms, and cover the free distribution of
textbooks in the 20 poorest provinces.
3.2.2. Health
112.  In the field of health, the combination of actions taken at institutional level, moves to
strengthen and decentralize credits and human resources, and efforts to combat the major diseases
led to decisive results. Since 1999, delegation of credits to health districts is effective under the
chapter on expenditures on goods and services (chapter III:  expenditures on goods and
equipment. This program was expanded to include medicine and maintenance of rolling stock (4
wheels) in February 2001.
113.  As part of efforts to combat malaria, a strategic plan for 2001-2005 and a 2001 plan of
action are in place. A workshop to develop a strategic plan for promotion of insecticide-treated
materials (mosquito nets and curtains) was held in early June of this year. This year 480 health
care service providers are expected to be trained in 16 health districts, as are 32 laboratory
technicians. All these steps are part of the "Roll-Back Malaria" initiative.
114.  Vaccination programs (PEV), and programs to stamp out dracunculosis and combat
leprosy and tuberculosis are key activities that are carried out regularly, despite financing
difficulties. With regard to the vaccination program, an audit to validate the data published by the
PEV and data on personnel standards in the CSP's was performed by the INSD. As for reducing
the breakage rates for Essential Generic Medicines [MEG], routine data of CAMEG and the audit
performed by SOFIDEC give a rate of about 4%.
115.  In order to ensure optimum use of human resources in rural areas, 428 new health agents
have been hired using 2000 HIPC initiative resources, to the benefit of CSPS's. Until
regionalization of recruitment, which will be part of a global program involving active
91



Annex 6
Page 25 of 26
participation by the ministerial departments responsible for the civil service, finance, and
decentralization, the health districts have the authority to recruit contract personnel.
116.  On an institutional level, various reference documents were drafted and adopted to define
the health development strategy in Burkina. They include the following: i) National Health
Policy Document adopted in September 2000; ii) the strategic framework to combat HIV/AIDS
and STI, its plan of action for 2001, and the attachment of the National Council to Combat AIDS
and STI and its permanent secretariat in the Office of the President of Faso (Council of Ministers
of May 9, 2001); and iv) the National Health Development Program (PNDS) and the Three-Year
Plan (Council of Ministers of June 6, 2001).
117.  In the area of promoting children's health, generic supplies were adapted to the situation
in the country. To implement this strategy, training modules still need to be designed and agents'
skills improved. The document for the program to reduce transmission of HIV from mothers to
children has also been drafted.  Once the health agents are trained, this program will be
implemented in the health districts of Dande, Gaoua, Koupela, Ouahigouya, and a rural health
district in the Ouagadougou health region.
118.  As for promoting women through reproductive health, policies, standards, and protocols
have been drafted and are in the process of being disseminated. The lowered-risk matemity
program, which was conducted on an experimental basis in 12 health districts, will also be
evaluated, with a view to extending it to other districts.
3.3. Promotion of Good Governance
3.3.1. Good Democratic Governance
119.  Various initiatives have been taken in this area. The national good govemance plan,
adopted by the govemment in 1998, is being implemented with the creation of an executive
secretariat in charge of good govemance and the introduction of a monitoring arrangement
(national coordination of good govemance and sectoral monitoring committees), and preparations
for a roundtable of donors are underway. The mechanism for implementation of global reform of
the govemment is operating smoothly, and real progress has been achieved in this area with the
new merit-based evaluation system introduced in 2001, application of the new statute for
contractual personnel, and the definition of jobs in the different sectors.
120.  To ensure an expeditious and more effective justice system, judicial reform is being
pursued with the adoption in April 2000 of a plan of action for reform of the justice system,
preparation of an investment program, and organization of a roundtable of donors in Jule
2001. The dissemination of economic and financial information is being studied, with moves
initiated to draft a minimum statistical program and a dissemination plan. In addition, the
democratic process was strengthened by the new municipal elections held in 2000.
3.3.2. Good Economic Governance
121.  The government initiated a study aimed at assessing the reforms undertaken in the area of
public finance since the SAP was introduced in 1991 and at identifying additional measures
needed to enhance the effectiveness, transparency, and the accountability of finance managers. In
support of this initiative, and with a view to a gradual shift from project aid to budget aid, the
World Bank has started a process involving a study accounting obligations, which should pave
92



Annex 6
Page 26 of 26
the way for a complete assessment of the strengths and weaknesses of the public and private
accounting systems in Burkina Faso. This study will be used to identify the measures to be taken
to guarantee the reliability and credibility of the public and private accounting systems and the
accountability of actors, which are essential steps in the shift to a budgetary aid system.
Moreover, a national system for combating corruption was put in place and budget execution
reports for 1995 to 1998 were drafted and sent to Parliament. Steps were also taken to speed up
the process of updating these instruments for evaluation and control of public management, with
budget execution reports for the 1999 and 2000 fiscal years to be drafted in the near future.
3.3.3. Local Governance
122.  Decentralization guidelines were adopted in 1998 to make decentralization the driving
force behind development of democracy. They confirm the right of local communities to manage
freely their own affairs, with a view to promoting grassroots development and strengthening local
governance. Following adoption of these guidelines, mechanisms to ensure that the key local
stakeholders take control of and responsibility for these guidelines were developed throughout
2000, so that everyone would become fully involved in the decentralization effort and assume
responsibility for implementing it in a coherent way.  These mechanisms consisted in
multisectoral coordination structures based on a national workshop and sectoral and regional
workshops to draw up plans of action to transfer powers and resources in the major sectors. They
have made it possible to conduct an exhaustive evaluation of the powers to be transferred, with a
precise description of their content, identification of the units involved in the transfer
arrangement, and determination of the exact nature of the measures to be adopted, with the time
periods required with respect to the programming law.
123.  Finally, the government is pleased to report that the number of communes has increased
to 49, 33 of which are first generation communes exercising their second mandate since the most
recent municipal elections in November 2000.
Conclusion
124.  The government is convinced that the considerable progress achieved by Burkina Faso in
recent years and saluted by all of its development partners should be consolidated and channeled
more to the benefit of the poorest sectors of the population. This is the thrust of its poverty
reduction strategy, which reflects the govemment's concern over focusing its economic
development strategy on improving the impact of public policies and on the need to increase the
purchasing power of the poorest segments of the population and offer them a better environment
in which to develop. The government is convinced that the program of reforms outlined in the
present development policy letter supports the intention indicated by the World Bank to assist
Burkina Faso in implementing the PRSP by putting in place a new instrument in the form of a
Poverty Reduction Support Credit. Designed as a credit to support a three-year government
program involving disbursements in annual tranches and included in the government's cash plan,
it marks the gradual shift of the World Bank's program of assistance to Burkina Faso towards a
programming approach, which will make it possible to project more accurately the government's
financial resources and thereby help provide greater security in implementing the poverty
reduction strategy.
Jean-Baptiste Compaore
93



Annex 7
Page 1 of 7
BURKINA FASO: POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT
MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS6
_ ___________________________________                                                                   EXPECTED               LI.NKSTO PSP
PRSC I - AUGUIST 2001                    IfS I-. MARCH 20021     PRSC III - MARCH 2003              OUCOESOBECTIVEIKSTOPSP
Real GDP growth of 4-6
General macroeconomic                        Maintain a stable macroeconomic framework throughout the program                  percent and dec e in      Objctive: grate
condition                                                                                                                     Iincidence of oeequity-based growth
A. Budget Management
Rules and Restraints
Adopted a MTEF for the 2002-2004         Adoption of a budget bill for    Adoption by May 1, 2002, of  Targets (key objectives to    Objective: Accelerate
(i) Budget formulation   period that is consistent with PRSP      2002 based on ceilings set with  the MTEF for the 2003-2005  be achieved-Monitoring    equity-based growth
Strengthen the budget    priorities                               reference to the 2002-04      period that is in keeping with    Indicators in Table 4 of
preparation process                                               MTEF and PRSP priorities       priorities under the revised  the President's Report):   Maintain a stable
(inter- and intra-sectoral   Held training sessions on program budgeting                        and updated PRSP                                         macroeconomic
allocations) to enhance  for budget officers (DAAFs and DEPs) of the   Completion of program                                   Improved program budgets  framework
the impact of public    Ministries of Agriculture, Livestock,     budgets consistent with PRSP    Adoption of a draft 2003     for all key ministries
expenditures upon growth   Environment, Justice, and Transports)  objectives in key ministries   budget based on ceilings set by
and establish a closer link                                       (including Economy and         the 2003-2005 MTEF and        Improved MTEF
between objectives,                                               Finance, Infrastructure,      priorities of the PRSP
resource allocation and                                           Secondary and Tertiary                                       Increased transparency in
anticipated results                                               Education), performance       Incorporation into 2003 budget    public resource         Objective: Promote
indicators included           of recommendations emerging    management                good governance
from public expenditure review
Regionalization of payment                                   Control and monitoring    Good democratic
order issuance through                                       institutions are better   govemance;
appointment of ( delegated                                   equipped to perform their
payers o and << secondary                                    duties                    Local governance
payers * within ministries to
empower regional                                             Increased accountability  Combat corruption
Government entities                                          for public servants
Completion of PER studies
(including economic
infrastructures, justice,
Ministry of Secondary and
Tertiary Education)
6Reform measures associated with PRSC 11 and PRSC III are indicative and provided here to underline the coherence of the medium term program. Actions in bold are credit conditions that are
included in the credit agreement of PRSC 1. Other actions in bold and a limited number of quantitative performance benchmarks based on the PRSP monitoring framework will constitute the basis for
proceeding with PRSC 11 and Ill.



Annex 7
Page 2 of 7
PRSCIAUGIST201  PRC It- NIRCH 202       PSC II -MRCII2003EXPECTED                                LINKS TO PRSP
PRSC t - AUGUST 2001               PRSC II - MARCH 2002           PRSC Ill- MARCh 2003              OUTCOMES                OBJECTIVES
Finalization of module on
ii! Budget Execution    Finalized the Govemment's integrated      extemal financing of          Adoption of the Govemment      Increased transparency in    Objective: Promote
system of administrative and salary      computerized expenditure circuit  plan for deconcentrating   public resource            good governance
Improve budget          management (SYGASPE)                      and deployment of new software  personnel management under the  management
management with a view                                            for management of external     principle of making civil                                Good democratic
to greater delegation of    Adopted budget procedures to ensure more    financing                servants available to regions and   Control and monitoring  governance;
responsibility in the area   effective tracking and management of HIPC                           provinces according to their  institutions are better
of expenditures, greater    resources:                            Preparation, by August 15, of a    needs                     equipped to perform their    Local governance
transparency and greater   I. Created a special Treasury account opened   status report on budget                              duties
accountability           on the books of the Paymaster General and    implementation as of end June  Effective implementation of the                      Combat corruption
known as the "Special Growth and Poverty    2001, followed by corrective  Civil Service reforn program in  Increased accountability
Reduction Fund," where all the revenue and    measures if necessary     accordance with Law on        for public servants
expenses for operations under the HIPC                                  Govemment Reform (May
initiative will be recorded and made available  Implementation of a program  1998)
Improve budget          to the public;                            to improve public procedures
implementation          2. Adopted a corrective appropriation bill for   and capacity in the area of  Recognition of the region as a
procedures to increase   earmarking the HIPC funds received in 2000,  procurement: (i) Adoption of a   'deconcentrated' administrative
public services available   and authorization granted by the National  Procurement Procedures    entity and harmonization of
to the most disadvantaged   Assembly to the Minister of Economy and  Manual; (ii) Redefinition of  current divisions by June 2002
populations and          Finance to proceed with distribution by  the roles of the two major
guarantee access for the    decree of the resources expected in 2001;  departments (Direction    Training of health and education
poor to basic social     3. Adopted special measures to step up   Generale de la Coopetation and   personnel in the regions in
services                 procedures for use of these resources and to    Direction Centrale des Marches  procurement techniques and
ensure transparent management of public  Publics) and adoption of       budget management
finance                                  capacity building measures;
(iii) Revision of the general  Satisfactory implementation of
rules for public procurement    the recommendations from the
to make them consistent with    CPAR
international standards of
transparency and efficiency;  Strengthening of the DCMP
(iv) Facilitation of SME access  (human resources and financial
to public procurement; and    management)
(v)Verification that 50 percent
of public procurement will
have been subject to
competitive procurement
practices as required by law
and that the largest contracts
will be subject to public audit.
Submission of budget
execution reports for fiscal
years 1999 and 2000 and their
remittal to the Supreme Audit



Annex 7
Page 3 of 7
_PRSC I -AUGUSTt 2001              PRSC 11 - NIARCIJ 2002         PRSC I llt  LIARCII 2003UEXPECTED                        LINKS TO PRSP
PRSC 1-AUGUST2001  PRSC II -~ MARCH 2002  PRSC 111- MARCH 2003OUTCOMES                             OBJECTIVES
Institution
(iii! Budget Reporting   Submitted budget reports (lois de                                       Completion of budget report
reglements) for fiscal years 1996,1997 and                              for the 2001 fiscal year and its
Increase transparency,   1998 to the Supreme Audit Court (Cour                                   transmission to the Supreme
controls and audits      des Comptes) by March 31, 2001                                          Audit Court by June 30, 2002
Satisfactory implementation of  Satisfactory implementation of
the action plan for           the recommendations from the
strengthening the Supreme     PRGB and CFAA
Audit Institution on the basis
of the recommendations of the   Completion of audits by
PRGB and CFAA                 private audit firms of public
Promote thefight against   Adopted laws ("lois organiques")                                      procurement executed by the    Improvement of the
corruption               providing for independent supreme                                       agency Faso Baara              judicial system
institutions: Supreme audit institution,
State Council, Constitutional Council, and
"Cour de Cassation"
Satisfactory implementation of
Adopted a work program for the                                          the work program for the
Executive Secretary in charge of Good                                   Executive Secretary in charge
Governance                                                              of Good Governance
B. Stakeholders'         Issued the National Plan for Good        Adoption of transparent        Continued use of transparent   Targets (key obiectives to    Objective: Promote
Participation            Governance, distributed it to all provincial  mechanisms for allocating  mechanisms for allocating     be achieved-Monitoring    good govemance
authorities and organization of several  resources managed at the      resources managed at the district  Indicators in Table 4 of
outreach, information                    district level (e.g., posting  level (e.g., posting budgets  the President's Report):   Good democratic
workshops/seminars aimed at local        budgets allotted to each health   allotted to each health facility in                   governance
authorities and civil society            facility in public places in the    public places in the districts)  Increased transparency in
districts)                                                   public resource            Local governance
Completed and released national accounts                                Continuation of system of      management
for 1994 through 1998                                                   delegating budget credits to                             Combat corruption
health districts
C. Competition in Service   Completed the study on marginal tax rates   Completion of the study of  Satisfactory implementation of    Targets (key obiectives to    Objective: Accelerate
Delivery                 by economic sector to provide a strong   opening up cotton sector to   the main recommendations of     be achieved-Monitoring    growth based on
analytical basis to future policy measures    several operators        the Participatory Poverty      Indicators in Table 4 of   equity
favoring service delivery by the private                                Assessment                     the President's Report):
sector                                   Completion of the participatory                                                         Increase the
poverty assessment                                                                      competitiveness of the
Withdrew the public sector from service                                                                                          economy and reduce
delivery to cattle breeders to promote                                                                                           factor costs
competition
Accelerate the
Implemented the "mandat sanitaire" for sub-                                                                                      development of the
contracting public functions to private                                                                                          rural sector
|_________________________ |contractors in the livestock  sub-sector



Annex 7
Page 4 of 7
PRSC I - AUGUST 2001                PRSC It - MARCII 2002         PRSC III- MARCH 2003               EXPECTED              LINKS TO PRSP
-                                        ~~~~~~~~~               ~~~~~OUTCOMES  OBJECT IVES
|    .                                                                                                                             Support productive
I                                                        [ sectors
"IA( 0)\D ( M)11}(0N1,N 1: PIM-PMM1',))1  I ( I()OK SI 1'()1 1( 11 
A. Basic Education       Adopted an action plan for the           Implementation of the          Satisfactory implementation of  Targets (key objectives to    Objective: Accelerate
recruitment of new teachers in accordance   Educational Policy Statement   Educational Policy Statement    be achievedA-Monitorins    growth based on
Improve efficiency of    with provisions of the Civil Service     and of Governmental Action     and of Governmental Action     Indicators in Table 4 of   equity
publicfunds management   Reform (1998 law on Government           Plan in the area of basic      Plan in the area of basic      the President's Report):
through improvement of    reform). The action plan approved by the   education                   education                                                Increase the
working methods in the   Council of Ministers deals with budgetary                                                              Improved public service    competitiveness of the
social sectors           and organizational implications of the   Implementation of a            Maintaining primary education's  delivery, especially in rural  economy and reduce
1998 law as it pertains to the education  mechanism for subsidizing    share of total education        areas                     factor costs
sector (division of responsibilities between   school supplies in the 20  expenditure at 60 percent in the
Government and the regions: financing of   poorest provinces            medium term, while increasing    Increased enrolment rates    Objective: Guarantee
regions, provinces and municipalities;                                  education's share of total    in rural areas             that the poor have
assessment of managerial capacities at the   Increasing access to education in  government expenditure from                      access to basic social
decentralized levels.)                   rural areas by expanding the   21.6 percent to 23 percent in  Higher literacy rates     services
number of schools-equipped    2003                           among the poor
Adopted and released the Educational     with running water and separate                                                         Promote access of the
Is                                 Policy Statement at the same time as the  sanitary facilities for girls-in  Continued implementation of a    Higher literacy rates  poor to education
action plan for the purpose of: (i)      the 20 rural provinces with the  mechanism for subsidizing    among women
eliminating the currently automatic link  lowest coverage, by ensuring  school supplies in the 20 poorest
between admittance to the ENEPs and     that schools utilize multigrade  provinces
civil service employment; this measure is   teaching where population
to be applied to student teachers entering    density is too low to provide for   Continued increase in access to
the ENEPs beginning in September 2001;   six separate grades, and by    education in rural areas by
(ii) creating a new category of teachers to    expanding double-shift teaching   expanding the number of schools
be recruited at the regional level and   in urban areas where there is  and ensuring that schools utilize
having a status similar to that of teachers   excess demand             multigrade teaching where
in community schools - their status shall                               population density is too low to
be clearly defined and officialized; (iii)  Lowering the cost of education    provide for six separate grades,
expanding the community school program   to poor families by continuing to  and by expanding double-shift
in such a way that most teachers can     provide books free of charge,  teaching in urban areas where
henceforth be recruited at this level.   ensuring sufficient allocations to  there is excess demand
rural schools to cover basic
Adopted a new organization chart for the    materials and operating costs,
Ministry of Basic Education (MEBA), in    and making the payment of
conformity with the Education Policy     parent-teacher association (PTA)
Statement                                fees voluntary in the 20
provinces with enrollment rates
Adopted and implemented the              below the national average,
Government's Plan to increase the efficacy   while increasing government
of primary schooling by consolidating the    allocations to those schools to



Annex 7
Page 5 of 7
PRSC 1- AUGUST 2001                PRSC II - MARCH 2002          PRSCIII -MARCH  2003               EXPO CES               OBECTIEES
system for promoting pupils from one     compensate for the loss of
grade to the next, limiting grade repeats,    school income
and introducing new pedagogical methods
B. Health               Adopted the National Health Policy        Introduction of policy and    Adoption and implementation of  Targets (key objectives to    OBJECTIVE:
Document (Document de politique          institutional measures,       new procedures for allocating  be achieved) -Monitoring   ACCELERATE
Sanitaire Nationale);                    rendering all preventive      resources to districts/provinces   Indicators in Table 4 of  GROWTH BASED
services at the primary health   based on need with a view to  the President's Report):  ON EQUITY
Adopted the 10-year health sector        care level free of charge     rectifying imbalances and
development program (Plan National de                                  ensuring a more equitable      Improved public service    Increase the
Developpement Sanitaire - PNDS);         Introduced appropriate         distribution of resources     delivery, especially in rural  competitiveness of the
measures to essential drugs                                  areas (Health)            economy and reduce
Adopted the 2001-05 National HIV/AIDS    sold by CAMEG with a view    Introduction of appropriate                               factor costs
and Sexually Transmitted Infections      to reducing the cost of drugs  policy and legal measures to  Improved access to health
Strategic Plan and the 2001 Emergenvy    to users                      better monitor and regulate the    services               OBJECTIVE:
HIV/AIDS/STI Plan                                                      functions of the COGES,                                   GUARANTEE THAT
The Govemment will have       including the utilization of   Decrease in infant        THE POOR HAVE
Established a national HIV/AIDS/STI      provided financial resources in    collected funds           mortality (under 80 per    ACCESS TO BASIC
coordinating body to be presided over by the   the 2002 budget to replace IDA                         1000 live births in 2003,  SOCIAL SERVICES
President of Burkina Faso                funds under the Health and    Strengthening of the national  down from 105 in 1999)
Nutrition Project (expected to  health information system to                            Promote access of the
co                                Implemented a vaccination program to      close on September 30, 2001);    improve its usefulness in   Decrease in matemal        poor to health services
increase vaccination rates against DPT3 (for   this will ensure continuity of  decision making ; to integrate  mortality (under 400 per
children aged 12-24 months) by 42% by    quarterly disbursements to    information from the COGES;    100,000 live births in
December 1999 and by 50% by December     health districts and regional  and to facilitate monitoring the   2003, from 484 in 1999)
2000 - with particular efforts targeting rural   health directorates to "top off'    impact of services on vulnerable
areas                                    financing from other sources   groups                        Lower mortality rates in
(public budget, donors, cost                                 poor families
Implemented the plan to endow CSPSs with   recovery, etc.) to carry out their   Completion of a public
minimum required staff in accordance with    plans, maintain quarterly  expenditure review and an
norms established by the Ministry of Health,   financial management and  analysis of the impact of public
and to decentralize budget items to the  performance reports, and carry    spending on the poor to
regions. The proportion of CSPSs adhering to  out random financial audits  determine if resources are
these norms should be at least 65% by the                              allocated to priority public
end of 2000.                             Review (evaluation) of the    health problems and whether
COGES, including such issues    spending pattems have a pro
Maintained the incidence of CAMEG's      as adequacy of financial      poor focus with a view to
inventory shortfalls for the 45 generic drugs    management arrangements,  reducing poverty
at a lcvel less than 8% during the year 2000.   quality of relations with
communities and health agents    Continuation of vaccination
program in order to boost
Completion of a beneficiary   vaccination rates in accordance
assessment to ascertain       with PRSP objectives
perceptions and views of the



Annex 7
Page 6 of 7
PRSCI -AUGUT 201  RSC 1 -MARC  202      PSC II -NIARIT 003EXPECTED                             LINKS TO PUSP
PR1C -AUICUST 200)                 PRSC II - MARCH 2002         PRSC III- MARCII2003              OUTCOMES               OBJECTIVES
population with regard to the  Satisfactory implementation of
efficiency and accessibility of  plan to staff CSPSs with
health services, including    minimum personnel in
financial, socio-cultural and  accordance with norms
geographic barriers to care  established by the Ministry of
Health and reiterated in the
Continued vaccination program    PRSP
in order to boost vaccination
rates in accordance with PRSP  Maintenance of the incidence of
objectives for 2000- with     CAMEG's inventory shortfalls
particular efforts targeting rural   for the 45 generic drugs at less
areas                        than 8%
Implementation of the plan to
staff CSPSs with minimum
personnel in accordance with
norms established by the
Ministry of Health and reiterated
in the PRSP (the proportion of
CSPSs adhering to these norms
should be at least 65% by the
end of 2000);
Maintained incidence of
CAMEG's inventory shortfalls
for the 45 generic drugs at a
level below 8%
C. Rural Development    Completed the public expenditure review    Completed institutional audits of  PRSC Ill will include  The Govemment is still in   Objective: Accelerate
in the rural development sector to assess  ministries active in the rural  institutional measures agreed  the process of designing  growth based on
benefit incidence, efficiency, and pro-poor   sector (Agriculture, Livestock,    upon with the Govemment  monitoring indicators for    equity
targeting                               and Water and Environment)    following the ongoing policy   the rural development
dialogue on new action plans  sector                    Increase the
Adopted the national plan for environmental   Liberalized seed cotton  and priority programs of rural                         competitiveness of the
education                               marketing (auction sales and  development                                             economy and reduce
lifting of export ban)                                                               factor costs
Organized a sensitization campaign                                    Adoption and publication of
(information, education, and communication)  Enforcement of health    performance monitoring                                  Accelerate the
on environmental assessment regulations  guidelines for livestock     indicators (policy                                      development of the
implementation and results) for                         rural sector
Trained sixty trainers in and outside the  Update of the National Action    the water, environment and
public sector, and upgrading the skills of  Plan for the Environment  transportation sectors                                  Support productive
environmental assessment practitioners in the                                                                                 sectors
key ministries under programs supported by    Update of the institutional
PRSC I                                  responsibilities and the                                                              Objective: Expand



Annex 7
Page 7 of 7
PRSC I - AUGtUST 2001               PRSC 11 - MIARCH 2002         PRSC III- MARCHI 2003             OUTCOMES                OBJECTIVES
administrative procedures of the                                                        opportunities for
Adopted the draft bill on water          directorate and the agency                                                              employment and
management                               responsible for enforcing                                                               income-generating
environmental assessment                                                                activities for the poor
requirements
Reduce the
Development of action plans in                                                          vulnerability to
other production streams and                                                            agricultural activities
priority programs in
agriculture and livestock                                                              Intensiff and
(cotton, fruits and vegetables,                                                         modernize agricultural
livestock/meat, cowpea,                                                                 activities
oilseeds)
Increase and diversify
Restructuring, by end-2001, of                                                          rural income
rural development operations
under implementation, in
order to harmonize their
objectives, implementation
strategies, content,
implementation and
O)                                                                          management procedures and
O)                                                                          monitoring-evaluation with
those defined in the LPDRD
and PRSP



Arnex 8
Page 1 of 6
Burkina Faso at a glance
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                               Burkina  Saharan       Low-
Faso     Africa  income      Development diamond-
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                      11.9      659      2,459                Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   200       480       420
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      2.4      313      1,030
Average annual growth, 1994400
Population (%)                                        2.8       2.6       1.9
Labor force (%)                                       2.1       2.6       2.4     GNI                             Gross
per                           prmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199400)                              capita           i          enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  45
Urban population (% of total population)              17        34        32
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      54        50        60
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 live births)            105        92        91
Child malnutribon (% of children under 5)             33        32        43           Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)  78         55       76
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                  81        38        38
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  41       78        96                  Burkina Faso
Male                                                47        85       102                  Low-income group
Female                                              35        71        88
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999     2000
Economic ratlos
GDP (US$ billions)                           1.7      2.8       2.3       2.2
Gross domestc investmenVGDP                   ..    20.6       27.2      27.9                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP           10.1     12.7      11.5      10.7
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  -5.8      7.7       9.4       8.9
Gross national savings/GDP                     .       .       14.5      13.5
Current account balance/GDP (ind. Off. Trnsf)  ..    -37      -12.7    -14.4      Domestic      .t
Interest payments/GDP                        0.4      0.4       0.2       0.2    savingsInvestment
Total debt/GDP                              19.3     30.2      59.9      62.1     svn
Total debt servicelexports                   5.9      6.7      23.3      27.1
Present value of debttGDP
Present value of debtexports
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00    1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  ..      4.5      6.2       2.2       6.0                  Burkina Faso
GNPpercapita                         ..      1.6      3.0      -0.6       3.1                  Low-income group
Exports of goods and services      -0.4      0.0    -11.7     -10.0      10.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999     2000      Growth of investment and GDP(%)
(% of GDP)
Primary sector                              33.2     32.3      41.6     40.5    40 T
Secondary sector                            22.0     22.3      19.1      18.1    20 
Manufacturing                               ..       ..        ..
Services                                    44.8     45.3      39.3      41.4    -20
Pnvate consumption                          95.4     77.4      76.5     76.2    40 I
General government consumption              10.4     14.9      14.1      14.9                   GDI         GODP
Imports of goods and services               33.0     25.6      29.3     29.7
(average annual growth)                 1980-90  199040       1999      2000     Growth otexports and imports (%1
Prmary sector                                3.1      3.9       3.7      -1.0    r,
Secondary sector                             3.8      3.8      11.2       3.9    40
Manufacturing                              2.2                                  20-
Services                                     4.6      5.4       7.0       6.9  o T
Private consumption                          2.6     2.7        0.8      -11 .   20
General government consumption               6.2     -0.7       3.2      2.5
Gross domestic investment                            10.0      11.5    -21.4    .40 
Imports of goods and services                2.6      1.7      -8.5    -11.8                  Exports     SImpons
Gross national product                        ..      4.5       5.9      2.2
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
101



Annex 8
Page 2 of 6
Burkina Faso
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                              1980      1990       1999      2000      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                             35
Consumer prices                                  ..    -0.8         -1.1      -0.2    20
Implicit GDP deflator                             ..       ..       -2.4       1.2     1 o
10
Government finance                                   
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                   0o-
Current revenue                                  ..    12.5         14.4      12.8    -5       95    96    97    9a    99    00
Current budget balance                            ..    -1.6        5.2       3.1             -     GDPdeflator  - e  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..    -7.1         -3.5      -4.2
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                1980      1990       1999      2000      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                              ..      283        254       210      700
Cotton                                          ..      97        136        102     Bo0
Meat                                            ..      38         48        49      soo
Manufactures                                    ..       ..         ..        ..    400       E J* E E
Total imports (cil                               ..      542        581       530      300       E    E     E         E     E
Food                                            ..      97         75        57      200
Fuel and energy                                 ..      83         81       121      is t002U                E     +U      .
Capital goods                                   ..     129        203       178      20
Export price index (1995=100)                    ..       51         91        98           94   95   96   97   96   99   00
Import price index (1995=100)                     ..      56        106       126                  o Exports     c Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        ..       91         86        77
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1980     1990       1999      2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(USS millions)
Exports of goods and services                  210       352        287       240       0
Imports of goods and services                  577       709        730       664      -2
Resource balance                               -367     -357       -442      -424  64
Net income                                                 7         18        20      -
Net current transfers                           112      263        335       295      -a
Current account balance                           ..    -101       -126      -149     - 0
Financing iterris (net)                                  103        ill       106    .14 -
Changes in net reserves                           ..      -2         15        43      -16 -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)           ..      301        407       426
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)              211.3    272.3      653.0    731.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990       1999      2000
(US$ millions)                                                                         Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           330       834      1,452     1,533
IBRD                                           0         0
IDA                                           77       282        753       795
Total debt service                               22       34                   74
IBRD                                           0         0          ..       0.
IDA                                            1         3         1
Composition of net resource flo0                                                                                        B: 753
Official grants                               88       158         13       158
Official credpmors                            51        61
PIrvate creditors                              4         0
Foreign direct investment Economic0
Portfolio equity                               0         0          ..10
World Bank program
Commitments                                   21         0         30        23      A -IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 12        15         63        60      B-IDA    D  Other muftilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                           0         1          6         6        -MFG - Short-term
Net flows                                      12       14         57        54    ________________
Interest payments                              1         2          5         5
Net transfers                                 11        12         52        49
Development Economics
102



Annex 8
Page 3 of 6
Burkina Faso - Key Economic Indicators
MMt  19-97ffw                9tm   Ew   7th17,-    mi'.,S
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Gross domestic product a/                 100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0
Primary sector                           41.7    42.1       39.9    41.6    40.5      40.8     40.6    40.4    40.3
Secondary sector                         20.1     20.3    22.1       19.1     18.1     18.0    18.1      18.1     18.2
Services                                 38.2     37.6     38.0    39.3    41.4       41.2     41.4    41.4    41.5
Total Consumption                          97.5     91.2     89.8    90.6    91.1       89.8     88.6    88.3      88.0
Gross domestic fixed investment            27.4     28.3     30.3     27.2    27.9      27.4     25.9    25.0    25.2
Govemmentinvestment                       12.9     14.2     13.8     16.4    14.7      15.6    14.1      12.8     11.9
Private investment                        14.6     14.2     16.5     10.8    13.2      11.8     11.8    12.2    13.3
Exports (GNFS) b/                          11.7     11.5     14.4    11.3      10.7     11.7    13.2    13.2    13.3
Imports (GNFS)                             30.6    28.3      31.8     29.3    29.7    29.0       27.7     26.6    26.4
Gross domestic savings                      2.5      8.8     10.2      9.4      8.9     10.2     11.4     11.7    12.0
Gross national savings c/                  10.9    21.7    22.9    22.1        21.2    21.3      21.6    21.3    21.0
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                    2365     2332      2526    2494    2235       2421    2615     2819    3058
(US$ million at current prices)
GNP per capita (US$, Atlas method)         240       240      240      240     230      230      230       230     230
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from 1985 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices   6.5       5.8     6.2      6.2      2.2      6.3       5.9     6.0      6.0
Gross Domestic Income                      5.2     5.7      7.1      4.1      0.9      7.1      6.5      6.3      6.2
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 1985 prices)
Gross domestic product atmarketprices     3.6      2.9      2.5      3.3      -0.6     3.5      3.0      4.9      3.1
Total consumption                         -2.3     -2.3     6.2    -1.7       5.0      -6.6      1.2    -5.2      2.6
Private consumption                      -2.4      -2.6     6.3      -1.9     5.6      -7.6      1.4    -4.7      2.9
Balance of Payments (US$ millions)
Exports (GNFS) b/                         276      267      364      287      240      284      346      373      405
Merchandise FOB                         233      229      325      254      210      253      312      337      367
Imports (GNFS) b/                         724      661      803      730      664      702      725      750      806
Merchandise FOB                         562      511      639      581      530      560      578      597      641
Resource balance                          -448     -394     -439     -442    -424    -418    -380    -377    -401
Netcurrenttransfers                       205       315      334     335      295      288      285      289      290
Current account balance                  -251       -92    -117      -126    -149    -148       -112    -105    -126
Net private foreign direct investment       16       12      -23       19      41       21       23       25       37
Change in reserves dl                        4       35       66       15      43        -7     -24      -25       -3
Memorandum items
Resourcebalance(%ofGDP)                   -18.9   -16.9    -17.4    -17.7   -19.0    -17.3    -14.5   -13.4   -13.1
(Continued)
103



Annex 8
Page 4 of 6
Burkina Faso - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices) e/
Current revenues                            13.2     13.4     14.5      15.4     13.8     14.7      15.8     16.0     16.2
Currentexpenditures                         11.1     10.4     10.9      11.8     12.3     12.6      12.7     12.0     11.6
Current account surplus (+) or deficit (-)  2.1       3.0      3.6       3.6      1.5      2.1      3.1       4.0      4.6
Capital expenditure                         10.9     13.1     13.8      16.4     14.8     15.3      14.1     12.8     11.9
Foreign financing                           2.0       4.1      3.4      3.8       2.3      6.7      4.3       3.7      2.9
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP                                     26.8      27.3     25.5     25.4      25.6     24.9     25.0      24.9     24.7
Growth of M2 (%)                             8.2     14.2      1.7       3.2      4.6      5.1       7.8      7.4      7.3
Private sector credit growth /             74.0      64.8     87.3     35.5      52.0    128.6    128.3
total credit growth (%)
Price Indices (1990 = 100)
Merchandise export price index            190.6    198.6    189.5    177.9    190.4    201.5    206.1    211.0    218.0
Merchandise import price index             186.0    195.0    180.5    188.0    223.9    222.1    219.9    218.3    221.4
Merchandise terms of trade index           102.5    101.8    105.0     94.6      85.0     90.7     93.7      96.7     98.5
Real exchange rate (US$/LCU) f/            48.7      47.1     49.4       ..        ..       ..
Real interest rates
Consumer price index (% change)             6.1       2.3     -5.0     -1.1      -0.2      2.9      2.0       2.0      2.0
GDP deflator(% change)                      2.8       6.0      3.3     -2.4       1.2      1.6       1.5      1.7      1 8
a! GDP at factor cost
b/ "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c/ Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
dl Includes use of IMF resources.
e/ Consolidated central government.
f/ "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.
104



Annex 8
Page 5 of 6
Burkina Faso - Key Exposure Indicators
Amml                  LE&si         Prei
Ipdiwar                  Im    |P97    rg(S       159 T2QO6    2001    2002
Total debtoutstanding and              1294     1297     1358     1452    1533    1533       1533
disbursed (TDO) (US$m) a/
Net disbursements (US$m) at              81       69       63       126
Total debt service (TDS)                 49       50       54       61       74       74       74
(USSm) a/
Debt and debt service indicators
(%/0)
TDO/GDP                               54.7     53.4    52.2      56.2     57.1     51.4    47.2
TDS/XGS                               21.7    24.2      16.6    23.0    30.6    27.8    23.8
Concessionall)T                       83.9    83.0    83.6    82.2
IBRD exposure indicators (%/6)
IBRD DS/public DS                      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Preferred creditor DS/public          84.6    82.0    84.0    79.7
DS (%/.) b/
IBRD DS/XGS                            0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
IBRD TDO (USSm) c/                      0        0        0        0        0        0        0
Of which present value of
guarantees (USSm)
Share of IBRD portfolio (/)              ..      ..       ..       ..
IDA TDO (USSm) c/                      636      690      710       ..
IFC (USSm)
Loans
Equity and quasi-equity d/
MIGA
MIGA guarantees (USSm)
a/ Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, private nonguaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-
term capital.
b/ Preferred creditors are defined as IBRD, IDA, the regional multilateral development banks, the IMF, and the
Bank for International Settlements.
c/ Includes present value of guarantees.
d/ Includes equity and quasi-equity types of both loan and equity instruments.
105



Annex 8
Page 6 of 6
Burkina Faso - Balance of Payments
(USS millions at current prices)
Base-case (most likely) projection
Total exports of GNFS a/                                  276.3     267.3     364.0     287.4      239.6     284.3     345.6     372.9     405.4
Merchandise (FOB)                                    232.7      229.4     325.1     254.0     209.9      252.6     311.8     336.9     366.9
Nonfactor services                                     43.6      37.9      38.9      33.3      29.7       31.7      33.9      36.0      38.5
Total Imports of GNFS                                     724.2     661.1     803.3     729.7      663.8     702.2     725.4     750.2     806.2
Merchandise(FOB)                                     562.1      511.2     638.9     581.2     530.0     5605       577.8     596.6     641.4
Nonfactor services                                    162.1     149.9     164.4     148.5     133.8      141.7     147.5     153.7     164.7
Resource balance                                         -448.0    -393.7    -439.3    -442.4    -424.2    -418.0    -379.7    -377.3    -400.8
Net factorincome                                           -7.7     -13.4      -12.0    -18.4      -19.6     -18.4     -17.8     -16.7     -15.9
Factorreceipts                                         27.7      17.2      14.5       12.7      11.4      11.8      12.2      12.6      13.1
Factorpayments                                         35.4      30.6      26.5       31.1      31.1      30.2      30.0      29.3      29.0
Interest (scheduled)                               35.4      30.6       26.5      31.1      31.1      30.2      30.0      29.3       29.0
Other factor payments                               0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Net private current transfers                              84.0      74.5      75.0      64.6       43.0      28.6      44.0      52.6      61.6
Currentreceipts,ofwhich                               137.9     124.5      124.5     111.6      84.9      71.7      88.4      98.0     108.3
Workers'remittances                               110.2      87.7      92.9      81.8       57.7      42.4      56.8      63.9      71.3
Current payments                                       53.9      50.0      49.5      47.0       42.0      43.1      44.4      45.4      46.8
Netofficialcurrenttransfers                               121.1     240.6     259.0     270.6      252.0     259,3     241.5     236.5     228.8
Current account balance                                  -250.6     -92.0    -117.3    -125.6    -148.9    -148.5    -112.1    -104.9    -126.3
Official capital grants                                   159.4     139.3     143.6     190.9      154.9     151.3     154.5     154.5     155.3
Private investment (net)                                   16.4      11.5     -23.4       19.2      40.6      20.7      22.8      24.6      37.1
Memorandum items
Total gross reserves, of which                        445.0      349.7     372.9     406.6     426.0     380.2     326.2     326.2      326.2
Total gross reserves (in months imports G&S) b/          7.0       6.1       5.4       6.4       7.4       6.2       5.2        5.0       4.7
Exchange rates
Annual average (LCU/USS)c/                              512.0     582.4      585.7     614.9     710.0     708.0    704.7      704.7     701.3
Atendyear(LCU/US$)                                      523.7     598.8     554.0      653.0     731.4     708.0    704.7      606.1     701.3
Current Account Balance (excl. curr. off. transf.) as % GDP  -15.7  -14.3     -14.9      -15.9     -17.9     -16.8     -13.5     -12.1     -11.6
CurrentAccountBalance(incl.currt.off. transf.)as%GDP      -10.6     -10.4     -10.3      -12.7     -14.4     -13.2    -10.1       -8.7      -8.6
a. Goods and nonfactor services.
b. "G & S" denotes "goods and services."
c. "LCU" denotes "local currency units."
106



Annex 9
Page I of 3
SELECTED RECENT ANALYTICAL WORK ON BURKINA FASO
ABSP et Universite de Montreal. (CANADA), Evaluation des liens entre les programmes d'ajustement
macro-economique, la reforme du secteur de la sante et l'accessibilite, l'utilisation et la qualite des services
de sante au Burkina Faso. [Juin 2001]
Alain Mingat et al., Cofits, financement et fonctionnement du systeme educatif du Burkina Faso,
contraintes et espaces pour la politique educative. Draft. [Dec. 20001
Banque mondiale, Analyse de la faisabilite financiere technique, institutionnelle et &conomique du plan
National de deveioppement sanitaire, Agnes Soucat. [Juillet 2001]
Banque Mondiale, Burkina Faso, Rapport sur le Renforcement des Capacites nationales. [1997].
Bigman, D., Dercon, S. Guillaume, D. and Lambotte, M., Community Targeting for Poverty Reduction in
Burkina Faso. Center for Economic Studies Discussion Paper Series DPS 99. 10.
Burkina Faso, Ministere de l'Agriculture et des Ressources Animales. Document d'Orientation
Strategique. [1997]
Burkina Faso, Ministere de la fonction publique et du developpement institutionnel. Plan national de
bonnegouvernance. Programme d'investissement 1999-2003. [1999]
Burkina Faso, Ministere de la sante. Enqu&te sur l'utilisation des services de sante au Burkina Faso,
Rapport final. [1999]
Burkina Faso, Ministere de l'economie et des finances. Revue des depenses publiques. Les procedures
d 'elaboration et d 'execution du budget national par les services deconcentres de I 'Etat. [2000]
Burkina Faso, Ministere de l'economie et des finances. Revue des depenses publiques. Secteur de la sante,
1996-1999. [2000]
Burkina Faso, Ministere de I'economie et des finances. Revue des de'penses publiques. Secteur de
1 'enseignement de base et de 1'alphabeitisation.[2000]
Burkina Faso, Ministere de 1'economie et des finances. Document de strategie sur la reduction de la
pauvrete. [2000]
Burkina Faso, Ministere de la sante. Rapport de I evaluation interne par les pairs du systeme de gestion
decentralisee des DRS et DS appuye par le Projet de developpement sante et nutrition. [2000]
Burkina Faso, Ministere de la sante. Evaluation externe de la performance des services de sante appuye
par le projet de d'veloppement sante et nutrition. [2000]
Burkina Faso, Minist&re de l'education de base et de l'alphabetisation. Mesures d'accompagnement des
mutations institutionnelles et humaines du MEBA. [20011
Burkina Faso, Minist&e de I'education de base et de l'alphabetisation, Core Advice.  Mutations
institutionnelles et humaines pour le programme decennal de l'education de base. (The Netherlands and the
World Bank). [2001 ]
Burkina Faso, Mmiistere de l1'ducation de base et de I'alphabetisation, World Bank, Norvegian Trust fund.
Couits, Financement et Fonctionnement du systeme educatif du Burkina Faso; contraintes et espaces pour
la politique educative. Sous la direction de Makha Ndao, with Alain Mingat, Ramahatra Rakatomola,
Aboubacar Sow, and Paul Coustere. [2000]
107



Annex 9
Page 2 of 3
Centre d'Etude et de Formations aux Technologies Economiques CEFTE. Programme d'appui rigional a
V 'integration des pays de l 'UEMOA. Burkina Faso. [1997]
Collier, P, Romer M, Sachs, J et al.. Politiques a adopter pour la croissance &eonomique et la reduction de
la pauvrete au Burkina Faso, Harvard Institute for International Development. [1997]
Danish Development International Agency, Logistics Consulting Group. Facilitation du Commerce des
Produits Agricoles du Burkina Faso. (1999]
EDF, Etude sur le Renforcement de la Capacite de la Production d'Electricite au Centre Regional ae
Consommation de Ouagadougou. [Avril 2001]
European Commission, Rapport sur la strategie d'une reforme du systeme judiciaire au Burkina Faso.
[ I 999]
European Commission /Fondation Entreprendre, Rapport sur l'opinion des op&rateurs economiques et
fournisseurs de I 'Etat sur les reformes et la passation des marches. [1999]
FAO/World Bank, Burkina Faso, Strategie de Croissance Durable de l 'Agriculture et de l 'Elevage. [19981
Pierre Holveck, Energy Sector in Burkina Faso: Ten year-Least-Cost Investment Program. [ 19981
Inventaire des Projets de Production et de Transport d'Electricite au Burkina Faso. [1998]
IMF, Draft Report on Observance of Standards and Codes: Fiscal Transparency module. [2001]
INSD, Profil de la pauvret' au Burkina Faso. [2000]
Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances, Recent Economic Developments. [2001]
Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances, Burkina Faso: Competitivite et Croissance Economique --
Orientations, Strategies et Action. [2000]
Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances Plan de renforcement de la gestion budgeitaire. [2001]
Pays Bas-BASP 96, Etude sur la decentralisation du systeme de sante au Burkinafaso. [Janvier 2000]
Pays Bas - MDF/Crystal, Etude sur le renforcement des capacites institutionnelles du Ministere de la Sante
[Janvier 2000]
SOGREAH, Etude de Faisabilite de la Ligne de Transport d'Electricite Bobo-Dioulasso -- Ouagadougou:
et de Bolgatanga (Ghana) -- Ouagadougou (Burkina Faso). [June 2001]
UNICEF/World Bank, Etude sur la consolidation des eicoles satellites pour I'amelioration de
1 'enseignement de base au Burkina Faso. [1998]
University of Ouagadougou, World Bank, Cooperation francaise, La Refondation de l'Universite de
Ouagadougou, sous la direction du Alfred Traore. [2000].
World Bank, Note Technique sur le systeme budgitaire du Burkina Faso. [ 1999]
World Bank, Local Level Institutions and Poverty Eradication: The Case of Rural Decentralization in
Burkina Faso, Report No. 21997. [1999]
World Bank, Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR)for Burkina Faso. [1999]
108



Annex 9
Page 3 of 3
World Bank, Energy Sector Note on Burkina Faso, Michel del Buono. [1999]
World Bank, Country Procurement Assessment Review. [2000]
World Bank, Implementation Completion Report for Structural Adjustment Credit 11, Report No. 21555.
[2000]
World Bank, Etude sur la competitivite des fllieres de l 'agriculture et de l 'elevage au Burkina Faso
(Nicolas Gergely). [2000]
World Bank, Implementation Completion Report for Public Institutional Development Project. [2001]
World Bank, Country FinancialAccountability Assessment: Initiating Memorandum. [2001]
World Bank, Improving Service Delivery: The Challengesfor Public Management Reform. [2001]
World Bank, Household Welfare and Poverty Dynamics in Burkina Faso: Empirical Evidence from
Household Surveys (Hippolyte Fofack, Celestin Monga, and Hasan Tuluy). [2001]
World Bank, Implementation Completion Report - Public Institutional Development Project, Report No.
21853. [2001]
World Bank, The Local Level Institutions Study: Local Institutions and Service Delivery in Burkina Faso,
Swamy, A.V., Grootaert, C. and Oh, G.-T. [1999]
109



