                                   Documentof
                                 The World Bank




                                                           ReportNo: 30327-BF

                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETIONREPORT
                                    (IDA-35650)

                                       ON A

                                      CREDIT

                        INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR36MILLION

                          (US$45.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO

                                  BURKINAFASO

                                      FOR A

                     POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT (1)



                                 December29,2004




PovertyReductionand EconomicManagement4
AFC15
Africa Region

                          SimplifiedImplementationCompletionReport

                              PovertyReductionSupport Credit (1)


 Project ID: PO72106                                             Project Name: Poverty ReductionSupport Credit (1)

 Team Leader: Abdoulaye Seck                                     TL Unit: AFTP4



 ICR Type: Core ICR                                              Report Date: December 2, 2004




1. ProjectData
                 Name:   Poverty ReductionSupport Credit (1)                         L/C/TF  IDA-35650
                                                                                   Number:
   Country/Department:   BURKINA FASO                                               Region:  Africa RegionalOffice

       Sector/subsector: Central government administration(46%); Health(21YO);    General
                         education sector (17%); Law andjustice (8%); Primaryeducation
                         (8%)
                Theme: Administrative and civil service reform(P); Publicexpenditure,
                        financial managementand procurement(P); Other
                        accountabilitylanti-corruption(S); Other ruraldevelopment (S);
                        Healthsystemperformance(S)


  KEY DATES                                                           Original              Revised/Actual
          PCD:   0312912001                               Effective:  10104/2001            10/04/2001
     Appraisal:  04/09/2001                                  MTR:
     Approval:   08/23/2001                               Closing:    06/30/2002            06/30/2002




   Borrower/ZmplementingAgency:       BURKINA FASOMINISTRY OF ECONOMYAND FINANCE
                   Other Partners:


STAFF                      Current                                        At Appraisal
VicePresident:             CallistoE.Madavo                               CallistoE. Madavo
County Director:           A. DavidCraig                                  Hasan Tuluy
Sector Manager:            RobertR.Blake                                  CharlesHumphreys
TeamLeader at ICR:         Abdoulaye Seck                                 Celestin Monga
ICR Primary Author:        Miquel Saponara




                                                     2

  2. PrincipalPerformanceRatings
  focused on this operation 's contribution toward overallprogram objectives)

  (HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
  HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)


   ~    ~                                    Outcome: S
                                        Sustainability: L
                InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact: SU
                                 Bank Performance: S
                            BorrowerPerformance: S


                                                        QAG (if available)              LCR
                                   Quality at Entry: S                                  S
                   Operation at Risk at Any Time: N o                                   No


 3. ProgramDescription
 3.a. Overallprogram
 1.      A series ofthree PRSCswas designed in2001 inline with the policy framework o fthe PRSP and
 focusing on two broad areas: public sector reform, governance and sectoral policies for the poor. The first
 component, reflecting objectives o f the first and fourth PRSP pillar, included strengthening of the
 budgetary process, improving audit functions, revising procurement regulations, introducing budget
 deconcentration, and reforming the civil service. The second component, based on PRSP pillars 2 and 3,
 incorporated measures to improve service delivery in education and health and strengthen income-
 generating agricultural activities. The supported measures were perceived as inputs for improving
 economic management and social service delivery, considered to be essential to reach PRSP objectives,

3.b. PRSC-I description

2.       PRSC-1- a one-tranche credit of US$45 million - is the first o f a series o f three PRSCs prepared
annually within a rolling, three-year horizon. In line with the program envisioned in the three-year
program, PRSC-1was designed to help the Government achieve better outcomes in the management of
public resources by: (i)strengthening the link betweenbudget allocations and sector objectives, strategies,
and action plans; (ii)  improving service delivery by ministriesof education, health and rural development;
(iii)strengtheningthe fiduciary framework to promote accountability and transparency inthe use of
public funds, including external assistance; and (iv) strengtheningthe Government's capacity to track and
manage public expenditure efficiently.

4. Achievement of Objectivesand Outputs

3.       Prior to Board presentation o f PRSC-1, the Government has completed all planed actions in the
areas o f public sector reform and governance, and pro-poor sectoral policies. The actions aimed at
improving budget management rules, stakeholders' participation, competition in service delivery, as well
as fostering the implementation o f the PRSP action plan in priority policy areas: basic education, health
and rural development. The detailed actions taken are presented in table 1below. Given the lag between




                                                              3

 policy actions and outcomes, the latter will be discussed in the programmatic ICR at the completion of
 PRSC-3   I




                         Table 1: Reform MeasuresImplementedunder PRSC-1

 ~


  Policy Area                  PRSC-1
  BudgetFormulation            0   Adoption of the 2002-04 Medium-Term ExpenditureFramework(MTEF)
                               0   Institution of programbudget in five more ministries
                               0   Adoption of budget procedures to more effectively track and record HIPC relief and
                                   relatedexpenditure
  BudgetExecution              0   Full operationalizationo f anew financial managementsystem
                              0    Creationo fadministrativeframework for delegatingcredits
  Procurement                 0    Deconcentration of procurement functions and involvement of ministerial finance
                                   (DAAF) and planning(DEP) directorates
                              0    Reassignment of responsibilities for procurement financed internally (DCMP) and
                                   financed externally (DGCOOP)
  BudgetReporting and Good         Submissionof budget executionreportsfor 1996-1998to the Chamber ofAccounts
  Governance                       Creationof an independent SupremeAudit Court
                              0    Adoption of awork programfor the Executive Secretary for Good Governance
                                  Disseminationo f the National Good Governance plan to all provincial authorities
  Civil Service Reform and        Finalization of the development of the integratedpayroll and salary management system
  Decentralization                (SIGASPE)
  Policy Monitoringand            Completion of a study on marginaltax rates by economic sector
  Evaluation
  Education                   0   Adoption ofan actionplan for recruitmentofnew teachers in accordancewith provisions
                                  o f the 1998 civil service reform




 Health                           Adoption of nationalhealthpolicy document
                                  Adoption ofthe 10-yearhealthsector developmentprogram
                                  Implementationof avaccinationprogram
                                  Establishmentof nationalHIV-AIDS coordinating body
                                  Implementation ofplan to endow healthcenters with a minimum o f requiredstaff
                                  Limitation of the inventory shortfall of drug supplyto normsof the PRSP

 RuralDevelopment                 Completion o fthe public expenditurereview
                                  Completion of the study on openingthe cotton sector
 Environment                      Adoption o fthe nationalplan for environmentaleducation
                                  Organizationof campaign on environmentalassessments
                                  Upgradeo f skills of environmentalassessmentpractitioners




4.       Implementation o f PRSC-1was against the backdrop of the legacy o f the 2000 difficult year with
a deceleration in growth - at 2.2 percent compared to with 5.7 percent overage during 1995-1999 - as a
result of adverse weather conditions (which resulted in a smaller cotton crop and lower than expected
cereal production); increase in oil prices and the appreciation of the US$; and the deterioration o f the
political situation in CBte d'Ivoire (where 3 million Burkinabe reside), a factor that significantly reduced
workers' remittances. The 2001 budget was designed to regularize the Government's balance sheet -




                                                             4

  reducing domestic arrears and improving its position with the Banking system, in conformity with PRGF
  program targets.

  6. Bank and Borrower Performance

  5.      Overall Bank performance i s satisfactory. PRSC-1 is a key element o f the Country Assistance
  Strategy (CAS) presented to the Board on November 30, 2000 (Report 21285-BUR), and its objectives
  are well aligned with Government's development agenda, priorities and policies set out in the June 2000
  Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. Lessons learned from past adjustment operations' were incorporated
  inthe design ofthe PRSC program, notably on timing, focus, long-term approach, reporting and auditing
 and capacity-building and knowledge. In preparing PRSC-1, the Bank built on substantial analytical
 work, including public expenditure reviews; poverty profile and poverty assessment; a report of
 competitiveness and long-term sources o f growth in Burkina Faso, technical notes on the ten-year
 education program and the ten-year health program;              reports o f public service delivery and
 decentralization; country procurement assessment report and a country financial accountability
 assessment. In preparing and supervising the credit, the Bank also worked closely with IMF and other
 donors.

 6.       Overall Borrower performance i s satisfactory. Burkina Faso was the second country to present a
 satisfactory full PRSP to the Bank and IMF Boards, in June 2000. In a joint assessment of the PRSP2,
 Bank and IMF staff agreed that the PRSP presents a clear statement o f the poverty reduction goals set by
 the Government based on a good understanding o f the nature and locus o f poverty in Burkina Faso.
 Strong Borrower ownership and commitment to the strategic approach contained in PRSC-1 i s evidenced
 by a perfect policy implementation record.

 Quality at Entry Assessment by QAG of PRSC-1

 7.       The QAG panel assessed the overall quality at entry as satisfactory. Bank processes were also
judged satisfactory. Strong aspects identified were the level o f borrower ownership, the effective
 arrangements with the Fund and other development partners, prior and associated assessment and
 diagnosis o f poverty, quality o f the financial management assessment -expertly performed and
 documented-, arrangements spelled out to initiate M&E, effectiveness o f quality assurance and review
 process. Areas needing improvements were the assessment o f risks to sustained higher growth necessary
to make significant inroad on poverty reduction, which needed to be more thoughtful, candid, and

the PRSCs - as a development blueprint based on the relative neglect o f the lack o f flexibility (e.g.,
realistic. In particular, the QAG panel reported reservations on the likely efficacy o f the PRSP - and thus

exchange rate management which escapesthe control o f national authorities); more aggressive action up-
front on public procurement; and more explicit weighing on the specific choice o f program instrument.

8.       The achievement o f the four highest priority development objectives (poverty alleviation;
structural and sector policy reform; human development; and macroeconomic management) were viewed

reduction and, to a lesser degree, human development, were limited to enabling actions - though even in
as likely, albeit ina somewhat restrictedway. For the QAG panel, the contributions o f PRSC-1 to poverty

the first year, the Government of BurkinaFaso program encompassed expanded coverage of HD services.
The panel viewed the matrix o f actions (inthe areas of budget formulation, execution and reporting; and
improved management o f public funds for basic education, health and rural development) as important

' Burkina Faso: Implementation Completion Report of EMRSO, Report no 20725, July 19, 2000; Burkina Faso:
Implementation Completion Report o f SAC 111, Report no 21555, December            27, 2000; Burkina Faso:
Implementation Completion Report o f PID, Report no 21853, May 29,2001
* Burkina Faso: Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper and JSA, IDA/SecM2000-3 13, June 12,2000



                                                       5

 and necessary measures that represent essential steps by the Government o f Burkina Faso on a reasonable
 path to progress in those areas. Judged as enabling measures, these were both significant and likely to be
 achieved, Notwithstanding the riskspresented,the panel agreedthat on balance the operation's resultwere
 likely to be sustained. The panel noted that the reform program underpinningthe credit benefitedfrom a
 quite solid body of Bank AAA and related work by other agencies conducted over a period of several
 years.

 Environmental Aspects

 9.      PRSC-1 was a Structural Adjustment Credit, and the requirements o f Operational Directive (OD)
 8.60 applied to it in line with the Interim PRSC Guidelines3.The appraisal mission reviewed Burkina
 Faso's environmental policies and practices with the aim of identifying priority measures that can be
 supported under this credit and future PRSCs, as well as to confirm that there are no negative linkages
 between the reforms proposed under PRSC-1 and environmental outcomes. The program supported
 under PRSC-1 strengthens Burkina Faso's capacity to implement the 1997 Environmental Law. Two
 types o f activities were supported during PRSC-1: (i)a vigorous sensitization campaign (information,
 education, and communication) on environmental assessment regulations and the associated
 implementation decree; and (ii)training o f sixty trainers in and outside the public sector, and upgrading
the skills of environmental assessment practitioners in the key ministries under programs supported by
PRSC-1.

7. Findingsand Implicationsfor SubsequentOperation(s) in Series

 10.     The program document of PRSC-1 recognizedthat external financial assistance is more effective
when provided at the start o f the Government's fiscal year, so that the support i s known in advance to be
available and be used as a basis for making budget management more predictable. Although PRSC-I was
provided inthe middle o f the Government's fiscal year, it was expected that PRSC-2 and PRSC-3 would
be timed to fit better with the budget cycle.




 Interim Guidelines for Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSC), Operations Policy and Country Services, May
31, 2001.



                                                      6




