Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY                                            Report No. 10392
]Report No. 10392-ME Type: (PCR)
MAUPRIVEZ,/ X31709 / T9 079/ OEDD3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2665-ME)
FEBRUARY 21, 1992
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    -  MXP   (Mexican Peso)
March    1986                    1 US$        -        430 MXP
October 1991                     1 Un$       -      3,000 MXP
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BANOBRAS           Banco Nacional de Obras          National Development Bank for
y Servicios Pdblicos            Public Works
CAPPCE             Comit6 Administrativo            Federal Comittee for
del Programa Federal de         School Construction
Construcci6n de Escuelas
CONMAYIT           Consejo Nacional de              National Council for Science and
Cisencia y Tecnologia           Technology
DF                 Distrito Federal                 Federal District of Mexico City
DDF                Departamento del                 Federal District Government
Distrito Federal
FONHAPO            Fideicomiso Pondo                National Fund for Low Cost
Nacional de Habitaciones        Housing
Populares
POVI               Fondo de Operaci6n y             Bank Housing Fund
Financiamiento Bancario
a la Vivienda
IMSS               Instituto Mexicano de            Mexican Social Security Institute
Seguro Social
INAH               Instituto Nacional de            National Institute of Anthropology
Antropologia e Historia         and History
INBS               Instituto Nacional de            National Institute of Fine Arts
Bellas Artes
MCMA               Area Metropolitana de la         Mexico City Metropolitan Area
Ciudad de M6xico
REP                Programa de Renovaci6n           Low-Income Housing Reconstruction
Habitacional Popular            Program
SEDUE              Secretaria de Ecologia y         Minietry of Urban Development and
Desarrollo Urbano               Ecology
SEP                Secretaria de EducaAi6n          Ministry of Education
Piblica
SHCP               Secretaria de Hacienda y         Ministry of Finance
Cr6dito Piblico
SPP                Secretaria de Programaci6n y   Ministry of Planning and
Presupuesto                     Budget



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Oke o Director-Gral
Opatkmw Evakutkim
February 21,1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:     Project Completion Report on Mexico
Earthquake Rehabilitation and
Reconstruction Project (Loan 2665-ME)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Mexico - Earthquake Rehabilitation and Reconstruction
Project (Loan 2665-ME) prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional
Office with Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this
project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2665-ME)
Table of Contents
Page. No.
PREFACE . . . . . . ... . . . . i. . . .
E.VALUATION SUMMARY  . . .                                . .. . . .   ii
PART I:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . . . .               1
Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               1
Project Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
Project Preparation, Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
Project Implementation  ... . .... ....    .....                     .     .....    6
Project Results ... ..           ...... . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .             10
Poverty Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Project Sustainability  ... . ...............                                          11
Bank Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
Borrower's Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
Consulting Services ....  .         .    ... . ...  .    .  .  .  .  .  .    ........  12
Project Documentation and Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
Findings and Lessnns Learned  ....  .          .  .  .  .    ........... ...   12
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FR'OM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . .   14
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
Table I   Related Bank Loans  . . ..  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .... .. . ..  .    17
Table 2   Project Timetable ....  .          .  .  .  .  . ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   17
Table 3   Loan Disbursements  . . .             .....   ........    .  . .   .        17
Table 4   Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
Table 5   Project Costs and Financing . . .    .......   ...  .              .  .  .    .   19
Table 6   Status of Major Covenants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
Table 7   Use of Bank Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
This document has a restricted distribution and may he used by reeipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPURT
MEXICO
EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2665-ME)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) fcr the Earthquake
Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Project in Mexico, for which Loan 2665-ME,
in the amount of US$400.0 million, was approved on March 25, 1986. The
Borrower was BANOBRAS (Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Pfublicos) with the
Mexican Government acting as the Guarantor. The loan was closed on December
31, 1990, one year behind schedule. It was fully disbursed and the last
disbursement was made on Apr." 10, 1991.
The report was pro       jointly by the Infrastructure and Energy
Operations Division, Departme; tL, Latin America and Caribbean Regional
Office, (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part
II). Tne report is based, Inter alia, on the President's Report dated March 5
1986, the Loan, Project and Guarantee Agreements dated April 9, 1986,
supervision reports, internal Bank memoranda, correspondence between the Bank
and the Borrower, and a comprehensive report prepared by the Borrower in
Spring/Summer of 1991.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(OAN 2665-ME)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Obiectives
1.        The two principal objectives of the project were (a) to assist the
Government in the swift repair, reconstruction and!or replacement of low-and
medium-income housing, and community and social sector facilities damaged or
destroyed by the earthquake of September 19, 1985, and (b) to contribute to
lower and mitigate the risks of losses in human lives, community facilities,
infrastructure and real estate that could be caused by future earthquakes,
through improved p:.anning and construction standards and the preparation of
appropriate regulations and procedures at the federal, state and local
government levels.
Implementation Experience
2.        Approved by the Bank in March 1986, the Loan became effective in
August 1986 and was fully disbursed by April 1991, one year behind schedule.
This remarkable performance was accomplished despite the economic difficulties
which Mexico was facing during the period. In general, the project can be
credited with having made a significant contribution to the swift
reconstruction of low-income housing neighborhoods and thus to have helped to
mitigate and overcome social hardship.
3.        The implementation of the project was excellent, thanks, in part,
to the flexibility that both the Government and the Bank demonstrated to
adjust the project to the evolving needs of Mexico's post-disaster recovery.
No procurement issue arose. Delays in the implementation of some components
occurred in the later years as a result of Mexico's difficult economic
situation and the tight limits which the Government had to impose on public
spending.
Results
4.        The project allowed for the repair, reconstruction or replacement
of about 72,000 housing units, or around 55% of all the dwellings affected by
the earthquake. A majority of these units were rebuilt Irn situ in the Mexico
City downtown area and completed within the first two years of project
implementation. The school reconstruction program saw its scope expanded and,
as a result, focused primarily on reinforcement of existing facilities.
Structural reinforcement was carried out in about 2,400 school buildings, or
about 60Z of the facilities in need of such works in 10 states subject to high



- iii -
seismic risk. For external reasons, primarily the country's economic problems
and the ensuing limits imposed by the Government on public sector spending,
the reconstruction program for health care facilities could not be finiahed as
planned, but is now being completed with local resources. On the
institutional side, the project provided significant support, through
technical assistance and studies, for the preparation of a new building code
for Mexico City, which went into effect in 1937.
Proiect Sustainability
5.        Because of its very nature, a reconstruction project is a one time
operation and does not address sustainability as a primary issue. However,
great attention was given to use the project as a vehicle to provide the
population adequate safety from the effects of possible future earthquakes by
developing new seism-resistant construction techniques for low-income housing,
and protect school children and hospital patients from possible harm through
the reinforcement of existing structures and use of more appropriate standards
for new facilities.
Findings and Lessons Learned
6.        Natural disasters, like earthquakes, require an immediate and quick
response and typically preclude the carrying out of lengthy preparatory
studies. An inevitable consequence is that any reconstruction project has at
times to be based on perfunctory, and often incomplete assessments of needs,
both physically and financial. To allow for the necessary adjusttaerLts to the
actual needs that arise during implemertation, a high degree of flexibility
and willingness to make changes is required to achieve the objectives of such
an operation. Readin.ss on the part of both the Mexican Government and the
Bank to review the scope of individua'l project components and adapt
implementation mechanisms and procedures whenever needed, was a key factor in
the success of this project.
7.        Because of the high degree of development and sophistication of its
economy, Mexico was able to mobilize very quickly the considerable amount of
human resources the reconstruction effort required nationally either in the
public or the private sector. The Government wisely resisted the temptation
to create new, bureaucratic structures for the mnanagement of the
reconstruction effort and, instead, used the existing institutional framework
or established bodies with a temporary mandate such as the Low-Income Housing
Reconstruction Program (Programa de Renovacidn Habitacional Popular or RHP),
that were dissolved upon completion of their tasks.
8.        Rebuilding z' situ and relocating the low-income population victim
of the disaster within their original neighborhoods proved to be the most
efficient solution. It was in any event preferable to a socially disruptive
resettlement in housing developments in the city's periphery. Converting
former tenants into owners and associating them with the planning and design
process facilitated the implementation of the program and had a positive
effect of the rapid recovery of the population. However, this was only
possible because of the Government's decisiveness in carrying through
expeditiously a massive expropriation program.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATIONI AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2665-ME)
PART I:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Prolect Id_ntitv
Name                Earthquake Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project
Loan Number         2665-ME
RVP Unit            Latin America and the Caribbean Region,
Coantry Department I'
Sector              Infrastructure and Energy
Subsector       :   Urban
2.   Proiect Background
2.01      On September 19, 1985, Mexico was hit by an earthquake which had a
magnitude of 8.1 on the Richter scale and the epicenter of which was located
off the Pacific coast at a distance of about 400 kms from Mexico City. The
first quake was followed on September 21 by a second one of a magnitude of 7.8
and a series of after-shocks. While the effects were felt over a wide area
and severe damages occurred in several States in the vicinity of the epicenter
(Colima, Guerrero, Jalisco, and Michoacan), the by far heaviest losses were
experienced in Mexico City (Distrito Federal or DF) and the neighboring
municipalities of the Mexico City Metropolitan Area (MCMA). Damages in the
downtown area of Mexico City and, in particular in its historic center, were
particularly devastating because of the specific features of the sub-surface
geology (silt deposits on an ancient lakebed), as well as an urban occupation
which in many places had developed in disrespect of most elementary provisions
of building safety and land use regulat ons. Casualties amounted to over
4,000 dead, at least 15,000 injured, and over 50,000 homeless. Over 500 major
buildings suffered severe damage or total destruction, and about 60Z of
Government offices were lost. At least 30,000 dwellings were totally
demolished and another 100,000 extensively damaged. Many schools and four
major hospitals were destroyed, among the latter the National Medical Center
(Centro M6dIco Nacional) with a total of 2,600 beds. Damage to buildings
alone was estimated at between US$4 and US$5 billion and equaled about 2.5% of
GDP for that year.
2.02       Despite a history of periodic recurrence of severe earthquakes,
little had been done before 1985 to establish comprehensive preparedness
programs and/or to set up post-disaster contingency plans either for the
country as a whole or tho MCMA specifically. Although the authorities were
ill prepared for a calamity of the magnitude of the 1985 event, they quickly
rallied, and gained control over the situation. Immediate1y after the
disaster, the Government created an Emergency Committee for the DF to assess
needs and coordinate immediate relief operations, as well as a National
Emergency Committee with similar responsibilities at a national level. A
National Reconstruction Committee was formed at the beginning of October 1985



-2-
to coordinate nationwide the reconstruction efforts deployed by Federal, State
and local government authorities and private sector entities. Likewise,
within three weeks the Government created the RHP to organize temporary
shelter for the homeless, and manage the emergency reconstruction of low-cost
housing areas in downtown Mexico City. Concurrently, to provide space for the
reconstruction, the Government proceeded to expropriate 'n the downtown area
about 4,300 properties consisting of buildings either uninhabited or damaged
.eyond repair, or vacant plots.
2.03     Moreover, the Government seized the opportunity of the earthquake
reconstruction program to revive and accelerate its administrative
decentralization program whose implementation had been attempted, albeit with
limited success, during the previous ten years. Instead of replacing In situ
office space destroyed in the capital, units of several Ministries and other
Government entities were moved to 20 other cities in various regions of the
country. A similar decision was taken in the health sector where the Mexican
Social Security Ins-itute (Instituto Mexicano de Seguro Social or IMSS)
decided to stvengthen and/or expand its facilities in other regions and reduce
the scale of its services in the DF.
2.04     The international community was quick in responding to the
Government's calls for help and provided disaster relief supplies and rescue
personnel. Financial resources were mobilized by multi-and bilateral sourct'.
IDB made available emergency loans of a total of US$500 million. IMF provided
US$300 million as an advance on the stand-by program for 1986. Assistance
from bilateral and private sources was estimated at US$100 million. About
US$450 million was paid out by insurance companies.
2.05      In addition to beginning immediately the preparation of the
Earthquake Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project, the Bank agreed to
reallocate a total of US$91.2 million in funds from four ongoing projects
towards the reconstruction efforts and, in order to ease rhe stringencies on
counterpart funding, to increase the proportion of Bank financing to 70%.
These loans were: Loan 1945-ME Rainfed Agricultural Development Project
(US$14 million for replacement of Government office space in Mexico City and
other cities) 11; Loan 2281-ME Third Medium Size Cities and Sinaloa State
Water Project (US$17.5 million for repair and reconstruction of water supply
systems) -/; Loan 2331-ME Export Development Project (US$41 million for
repair and replacement of telecommunication and television equipment) 3/;
Loan 2450-ME Lazaro Cardenas Industrial Port Project (US$19 million for repair
and replacement of port equipment). 4/
1/ Loan 1945-HE Rainfed Agricultural Development Project,
FY81,  US$280 sillion,  Closings 06/87,  PCRs  02(90.
2/ Loan 2281-ME Third 9iedium Size Cities and Sinaloa State Water Project,
FY83, US$100 million, Closings 04/91, PCRa under preparation.
3/ Loan 2231-tE Export Davelopment Prolect,
- Y83,  US$350 million,  Closing: 06 89,  PCR: 06189.
4/ Loan 2450-ME Lazaro Cardenas Industrial Port Project,
FY84,  US$76 sillion,  Closings 12/92.



- 3 -
2.06      A total of US$81.8 was reallocated from Loan 1990-ME (Second Urban
and Regional Development Project and specifically targeted at housing
reconstruction in Mexico City and the State of Jalisco. 5'
3.   Pro1ect Obiectives and DescriDtion
3.01      The two principal objectivea of the project were to (a) assist the
Government in the swift repair, reconstruclion and/or replacement of low and
medium income housing units and community and social sector facilities damaged
or destroyed by the earthquake, and (b) contribute to lower and mitigate the
risks of losses in human lives, community facilities, infrastructure and real
estate that could be caused by future earthquakes through the definition and
enforcement of improved planning and construction standards, and the
preparation of adequate regulations and procedures at the federal, state and
local government levels.
3.02      To achieve these objectives, the project was to provide funding for
the following activities:
(a) Rehabilitation, reconstruction and replacement of about 72,000
housing units, primarily in low-income areas in downtown Mexico
City; (US$334 million or 58Z of total project cost).
(b) Reconstruction or structural reinforcement of community facilities
(markets, schools and health care facilLties) in the MCMA and
several other States exposed to high seismic risk; (US$156 million
or 28Z of total project cost).
(c)  Demolition of damaged buildings and removal of debris; (US$62
million or 11% of total project cost).
(d) Provision of technical assistance and o:her institutional support
to strengthen technical coordination and project preparation,
implementation and processing, to develop appropriate building
codes and land use regulations at the federal, state, and local
government level; (US$15 million or 3% of total project cost).
4.   Proiect Preparation, Design and Orxanization
4.01      Project preparation started immediately after the disaster by
several Bank staff who happened to be on missions to Mexico City. A
reconnaissance/preappraisal mission visited Mexico City in October 1985,
followed by an appraisal mission in November. Negotiations were held in
Washington from February 28 to March 2, 1986. Board presentation was March
25, 1986, and the Loan became effective on August 8, 1986.
4.02      The project was prepared under the oversight of the National
Reconstruction Committee, and the coordination of the Ministry of Finance
5/ Loan 1990-HE Second Urban and Regional Development Project.
- Y82. US$164 uillion, Closings 0 /89, PCR is being issued separately.



-4-
(Secretaria de Hacienda y Cr6dlto Publico or SHCP) by the Ministries of
Planning and Budget (Secretaria de Programaci6n y Presupuesto or SPP), Urban
Development and Ecology (Secretaria de Ecologia y Desarrollo Urbano or SEDUE),
and Education (Secrecarla de Educaci6n Publica or SEP), as well as the Federal
District Government (Departamento del Distrito Federal or DDF), IMSS, and
BANOBRAS). Responsibility for the implementation of the school rehabilitation
program in areas outside the jurisdiction of DDF was delegated by SEP to the
Federal Committee for School Construction (Comit6 Administrativo del Programa
Federal de Construccl6n de Escuelas or CAPFCE). Resources for the housing
program were to be channeled throuph two sub-loans to the National Fund for
Low-cost Housing (Fidelcomiso Fondo   zional de Habltaclones Populares or
FONHAPO), and the Bank Housing Fut    ondo de Operaci6n y Financiamlento
Bancario a la Vivienda or FOVI), with the technical responsibility for the
reconstruction program in downtown Me:cico City being entrusted to RHP.
4.03      In retrospect, it is fair to say that the success of the projects's
preparation and execution benefitted from a set of exceptional circumstances
that make it difficult to compare its design features and implementation
performance with those of other projects in Mexico, and most other projects in
the Region. First, in keeping with its emergency character, the project had
almost no policy and/or institutional objective, and thus was at no times
dependent on the Government's agreeing to, zr carrying out specific actions in
these areas. Second, the relatively high proportion of project costs to be
financed by the Loan (i.e., 83X) largely protected the project from the
budgetary effects of Mexico's economic difficulties. Third, the Government's
ability to implement the project within the existing institutional framework,
ailowed to contain the need for new executing bodies and arrangements, and
thereby eliminated a potential source of difficulties and risks.
4.04      Housing:  Assistance to the housing sector was to be extended
following a three-pronged approach: (a) the RHP program to supply housing to
households with an income not exceeding 2.5 minimum salaries built on
expropriated land in the downtown area; (b) the regular FONHAPO program to
provide credit for the repair or reconstruction of housing units on or in
other than expropriated properties in downtown Mexico City, as well as in
various localities of the State of Jalisco; and (c) the FOVI program, operated
by the commercial banking sector, to provide credit to middle-income families
for the reconstruction of damaged, or the purchase of new homes in the MCMA,
but outside the immediate downtown area.
4.0:j,    RHP was created as a temporary entity with a mandate of 24 months
that would report to the authorities of the DDF and coordinate and manage
social assistance, supply of emergency shelter, and reconstruction of housing
units in the downtown areas of Mexico City which had been affected by the
earthquake. From the outset, the Government decided to rebuild in situ small-
scale units rather than to plan for large-scale redevelopments and to allow
former tenants to become owners of the newly built structures, a strategy that
was supported by project. Reconstruction plans for the downtown low-cost
housing areas were established with the assistance of more than 260
architectural and engineering firms and the active involvement of the



representatives of the communities affected. Individual programs were
developed on the basis of a dwelling design of 40 m2 net area (izIcluding two
bedrooms, living/dining room, kitchen and in-door bathroom) and four
prototypes of 3 story earthquake resistant structures. Given the socio-
economic profile of the program's target population and the fact that the Bank
had already a low-income houaing project under implementation with FONHAPO
(Loan 2612-ME) using this agency and its operating modalities to channel
financial resources to RHP and administer the mortgage portfolio of RHP
beneficiaries was considered to be the most efficient alternutive. The
FONHAPO managed program included in the project was to be developed in
accordance with the standards and procedures agreed upon by the Bank in
connection with Ln. 2612-NE. The FOVI program originated in a decision taken
by SEDUE immediately after the earthquake to give victims of the disaster
preferential access to already completed housing units in developments
implemented by public and para-public housing corporations in peripherr., areas
of the MCMA. FOVI credits were to be extended to the eligible benefi Aries
through the commercial banking system under terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank.
4.06      Community Facilities:  Repair and reconstruction of markets was to
be carried out directly by DDF under the supervision of its Market Management
Department (Coordinaci6n General de Abastos), whereas the DDF Utilities
Department (Dfrecci6n General de Servicios Urbanos) was to coordinate the
implementation of demolition works and debris removal. To restore health
services to an adequate level, IMSS opted no to rebuild the 2,600-bed National
Medical Center (Centro M4dIco Nacional), but instead decided to decentralize
its operations within and outside the MCMA. The program developed by IMSS's
own planning and construction department proposed to build 5 smaller hospitals
with a total of 1,180 beds within MCMA, and five other hospitals in regional
centers (Le6n, Puebla, Ciudad Obreg6n, Veracruz, and M6rida) with a total of
838 beds. (In addition IMSS would replace another 600 beds through the
construction, with its own resources, of the Centro l6d1co Slglo XXI). To
address the needs in the education sector, SEP concluded an agreement with DDF
and CAPFCE, whereby DDF would assume responsibility for the repair and
structural reinforcement of all schools of primary and secondary education
within the limits of jurisdiction, whereas CAPFCE would be responsible for the
reconstruction of destroyed facilities within DF as well as the repair and
structural reinforcement of school buildings in other states.
4.07      Studies and Technical Assistance:  To secure adequate coordination
among the various implementing agencies and act as a liaison with the Bank, a
specific Technical Coordination Unit staffed with local consultants was set up
within the Department for Relationships with Multilateral Agencies (Direccldn
de Organismos Financieros Internacionales) of SHCP. Technical assistance
support w'as to be provided through SEDUE to RHP to strengthen its engineering
and technical supervision capacity. DDF was also to receive technical
assistance support for the preparation of an updated seismic building code and
specific land use regulations for the areas within the city that presented
high vulnerability to seismic risks. Studies were to be carried out under the
administrative and financial management of the National Science and Technology



-6-
Council (Consejo Nacional de Clencia y Tecnologis or CONACYT) in collaboration
with SHCP, SEDUE, DDF and the National Reconstruction Committee. Topics of
investigation were to focus primarily on improving knowledge of effects of
seismicity on building structures and the development of seismic earthquake
resistant construction techniques.
5.   Project Implementation
5.01      Throughout the entire life of the project, implementation
progressed extremely well, primarily owing to a persistently strong commitment
of the Government and the local authorities to the endeavor of reconstruction,
and a continitously high attention on part of the Bank. Both the Bank and the
Government showed a great flexibility regarding adjustments required in
response to the evolving needs of the post-disaster recovery and several minor
amendments were made to the Loan Agreement. Over 90% of the loan funds had
been disbursed by June 1989--(the original closing date was December 31,
1989)--and the project waO fully completed with a one year delay, which should
be considered as a very good performance, taking into account the extent of
the damages and the economic difficulties that Mexico was then facing,
principally the severe budgetary limitations on counterpart funding. The loan
was fully disbursed by April 1991.
5.02      Because of the emergency nature of the situation, much of the
demolition work was already in progress prior to the Bank's reconnaissance
mission, and by the time the loan became effective basically all of it had
been completed. Temporary reinforcements of dwellings in the low-income
neighborhoods as well as schools, hospitals and public buildings were
completed within the first month. To sustain the momentum of the
reconstruction efforts, the Bank agreed to finance retroactively to the date
of the disaster up to US$70 million equivalent of eligible expenditures.
Also, to expedite the start of reconstruction activities, the Bank agreed in
January 1986 to make available, retroactive to the date of the disaster, about
US$82 million of unused funds from Loan 1990-ME for the repair and
reconstruction of housing by RHP and FONHAPO. Projects funded with these
resources were implemented as part of the programs financed with Loan 2665-ME.
5.03      Housing:  The Housing component was by far the most successful
feature of the project. While it took RHP longer to plan and mobilize the
reconstruction operations than originally hoped, actual construction time
proved to be much shorter than anticipated. The delays in preparation of the
operations was primarily due to the need for a closer association of the
future beneficiaries and/or their representatives in the planning and design
process. Though time consuming and costly, an early and strong involvement of
the beneficiaries was rightly perceived to be an indispensable prerequisite
fcr helping preserve the original social fabric of the neighborhoods affected,
ant an important condition for a subsequent smooth progress in the
implementation. Another important factor that allowed RHP to expedite the
implementation of its program was its ability to streamline the procedures for
approval of building permits and reduce the delays from several months to, in
most cases, a few days. An element that, in some cases, contributed to



lengthen the approval process was the existence among the expropriated
properties of several buildings that had been declared historic monuments by
either the National Institute of Anthropology and History (Instituto Nacional
de Antropologia e Hlstorls or INAH)--for buildings up to the 19th century--or
the National Institute of Fine Arts (Instituto Nacional de Bellas Artes or
INBA)--for the more recent ones. Agreements that allowed to reconcile the
necessity for preservation of the national cultural patrimony with immediate
needs of reconstruction were sometimes difficult to reach, but were eventually
successfully concluded and a total of over 100 buildings of historic value
wete salvaged.
5.04      A noteworthy aspect of the early stages of implementation of the
RHP program was the involvement of Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs).
Over a dozen of such organizations expressed interest in participating in the
housing program, but almost none of them had any prior experience in
construction management, let alone emergency reconstruction activities.
Although, especially at the beginning, relations with RHP were sometimes
tense, difficulties could gradually be overcome and about 2,100 dwellings or
about 5% of the total, could be built by NGOs.
5.05      Over the two years of its duration, the RHP program saw a
considerable evolution which reflected a continuous process of adjustment to
the needs as they emerged. Initially, it had been estimated that the
proportion of dwellings to be rebuilt would evolve around 40% of the total and
that most of the housing units could be repaired by the occupants under self-
help arrangements with technical assistance from RHP. In reality, the
proportion of houses damaged beyond repair rose to close to 90%, essentially
because in numerous cases upon a more thorough inspection the damages to old
structures proved to be much more severe than previously thought. Under these
circumstances repair works to bring the buildings up to acceptable seismic
safety standards would have proven non economical. Moreover, frequently, the
dwellings did not comply with the most elementary requirements of salubrity
and hygiene and restoring them to their state prior to the earthquake would
have been socially unacceptable as well as an inefficient use of financial
resources.
5.06      In keeping with the dispositions taken at its creation, RHP was
dissolved after two years of existence, and its assets transferred to
FONHAPO's Phase II program (FASE XX), (see below para. 5.07). Under this
arrangement, FONHAPO continued to administer the credit reimbursement for all
the mortgages extended on RHP built housing units. Recuperation performance
has been satisfactory. RHP's timely dissolution deserves to be highlighted as
often "temporary" institutions find ways of extending their life after their
original objectives have been met, and the Mexican Government deserves credit
for not having allowed this to happen.
5.07      The FONHAPO program also underwent a series of adjustments to and
extensions of its original design. The applications for credit rapidly
increased and, in addition, a growing number of them originated from groups of
tenants in the downtown area and, especially the historic center, which wanted



- 8 -
to repair, improve and acquire the buildings in which they were living from
owners who had lost interest in the properties because of rent controls. To
satisfy this demand the FONHAPO program was reshaped and relabeled Fase II
program, and substituted subsequently in 1987 by the program called CASA
PROPIA. These two programs which were managed entirely by FONHAPO through a
system of temporary trust funds, not only extended credit to interested groups
of purchasers, but also provided technical assistance and legal support to the
latter in their negotiations with the former owners.
5.08       The demand for FOVI credits proved to be far in excess of the
resources available under the project, and despite a reallocation of funds in
1987, a considerable number of applications had to be funded by the banking
system out of its own resources or with funding supplied by the Banco de
Mexico.
5.09      Community Facilities:  The market reconstruction and repair program
in DF was withdrawn from the project and eventually had to be completed by DDF
with its own resources. The reason for this decision came from the
disagreement between SPP and DDF over the budgetary handling of resources
provided by Loan 2665-ME. According to SPP, these funds had to be considered
as a suostitute for resources otherwise by the Government to DDF as part of
the regular annual budgetary allocation, whereas DDF wanted them to be seen as
additional funding. While most visible in the case of DDF, the
"additionality" issue surfaced in the implementation of most other components
as well, and is still an issue that stands in the way of Bank lending for
projects in the DDF.
5.10       For similar reasons, the school rehabilitation and reconstruction
component underwent a significant evolution that again demonstrated the
benefits of flexibility and adaptability for disaster reconstruction programs.
Based on a rather perfunctory assessment, the component was initially designed
to finance the reconstruction and repair of about 50 schools as well as the
structural reinforcement of another 900 schools in DF and the neighboring
municipalities. It became evident in the course of implementation, that DF
was able to obtain a sizeable amount of resources for the reconstruction and
repair of facilities in form of grants from other donors. The program of
structural reinforcement of schools in DF encountered as in the above
mentioned case of markets, the opposition of SPP to provide DDF additional
resources to the authorized regular budget. As a consequence, the program in
DF could only be partially completed and DDF had to carry out a complementary
program for about 3,000 schools in the following years with its own resources.
On the other hand, however, to respond to growing awareness of the Government
of the need to protect children from the possible effects of future
earthquakes, the Bank accepted that the project scope be expanded to allow
reinforcement of existing schools in nine other States subject to major
seismic risks. This program was entirely implemented by CAPFCE and
benefitting from a reallocation of loan resourcos in 1989, was able to
significantly exceed its original objectives. It also became the catalyst for
the preparation of a national program which is still ongoing and will be
supported, in part, by other Bank projects in Mexico such as the Primary
Education Project approved in September 1991.



- 9 -
5.11      The program of hospital reconstruction also suffered some
noticeable changes. Two hospitals were dropped from the initial program of
six hospitals for the MCMA, principally for lack of appropriate sites. A
reorientation of IMSS' health care system that placed a greater emphasis on
outpatient services and ensuing changes in facility standards led to a further
adjustment of the program. Budgetary restrictions imposed on IMSS in 1987 and
1988 caused the temporary suspension of construction works for two other
hospitals in the MCMA and the postponement of equipment acquisition for most
of the remaining units. (The resources required to complete the works and
acquire the lacking equipment amounted by end of 1990 to about US$30 million
equivalent and were included by IMSS in its 1991/92 regular investment
program).
5.12      Studies and Technical Assistance:  The implementation of the
program of technical assistance and studies was severely hampered by the lack
of counterpart funding in both DDF and CONACYT which reflected the lower
priority attached by the Government to this component during a period of
severe economic difficulties. The project was successful in providing
financial support for the coordination of project activities by SHCP, and
contributed extensively to the preparation of a new seismic building code.
Assistance to SEDUE for the preparation of updated building codes in all
States of the country also got stalled over the issue of counterpart funding
and the question of "additionality" of loan resources. A program of
fundamental research on seismicity, seismic effects on building structures,
development of appropriate construction techniques, and other related topics
was to be implemented by CONACYT, but could be carried out only partially.
Out of a total of over 200 studies identified by CONACYT with the
collaboration of academic institutions and/or individual researchers over the
first three years of project implementation, only about 70 were eventually
completed. Together with studies carried out in parallel with funding from
the US National Science Foundation, they provided t1a groundwork for the
preparation of a revised building code for DF which was formally adopted and
put in force on July 6, 1987. As it became more and more unlikely that the
resources of this component could be used fully, the Government requested in
1989 the reallocation of the unspent balance of about US$4 million to the
school rehabilitation program implemented by CAPFCE, (see para. 5.10 above).
In retrospect, the technical assistance and studies component of the project
was probably oversized, too ambitious and reflected more the Bank's views of
priorities than those of the Government of Mexico.
5.13      Procurement:  Because of the emergency nature of the works to
implemented in a wide variety of locations, the Bank agreed that international
competitive bidding (ICB) was not the most efficient method to conduct the
civil works. ICB was maintained for acquisition of goods, however. Despite
the considerable number of contracts for both works and acquisition of goods,
no major procurement issue arose during the implementation of the project.
This could largely be credited to the fact that the national procurement law
which the Government had introduced earlier, made local contracting procedures
consistent with the guidelines issued by the Bank.



- 10 -
6.   Prolect Results
6.01      The project successfully assisted the Government in overcoming
quickly and efficiently the effects of the disaster. It decisively
contributed to avert the risks of major social disturbances which often come
in the trail of such events. An important result was that it contributed tai
maintain the affected population within their original living spaces and thus
avoid creating large groups of displaced persons which in many other countries
has shown to be one of the most critical problems in post-disaster recovery.
Creation of employment was another benefit, which was particularly important
as the economy was facing a severe recession. Over a two year period, the
reconstruction effort- provided a total of about 175,000 jobs, in vast
majority for unskilled labor. Moreover, the project succeeded in serving as a
catalyst for the inflow of other foreign assistance resources, and, especially
in the education sector, was instrumental in laying the foundations for a
national seismic protection and safety strategy.
6.02      Housing:  The project fully achieved its original objectives as
demonstrated in the table below. With loan resources totalling US$226.8
million (plus US$81.8 million from Loan 1990-ME) it provided for the repair
and reconstruction of over 70,000 housing units, or around 55% of the
estimated total of dwellings affected by the earthquake and benefitted a
population of possibly in excess of 400,000. An aspect that warrants to be
highlighted in particular, is the project's major contribution to the
preservation and restoration of Mexico City's cultural patrimony. Close and
continuous collaboration between RHP, FONHAPO (Fase II) and INAH and INBA
allowed to fully reconcile the social objectives of a rapid provision of
shelter with the imperatives of the preservation of a unique urban landscape
through careful design of architectural features, choice of colors, and
skillful organization of exterior spaces.
SUMMARY OF HOUSING RECONSTRUCTION AND REHABILITATION
No. of
Dwellinzs planned        Actual
RHP                          42,600               42,500
FONHAPO - FASE II            15,400               12,900
FONHAPO-CASA PROPIA             -                  2,500
FOVI                         11,800               11,300
JALISCO                         -                  3.200
TOTAL                 69.800               72.400
6.03      In the education sector, the project provided for the
reconstruction and structural reinforcement of a total 2,142 school facilities
in 10 States or about 60% of all the facilities considered in need of
reinforcement. The lag in the completion of the works for health sector



- 11 -
facilities was essentially the result of external factors beyond the control
of IMSS, the implementing agency. At the conclusion of the project, in
December 1990, 700 beds or about 30% of the original program were in service
and another 300 were to enter in service during the first half of 1991.
6.04      On February 6, 1987, the International Union of Architects awarded
its Sir Robert Mayhew Gold Medal to the Government of Mexico for the
reconstruction effort and declared it "...the best piece of work on human
settlements carried out internationally in the previous three years...".
Similarly, the 4th World Architectural Biannual Congress he.ld in Sofia,
Bulgaria in the summer of the same year awarded RHP a honorary award for the
quality of its reconstruction work and the innovativeness of the architectural
solutions it had devised.
7.   Poverty Impact
7.01      Because the areas that had suffered most from the disaster were
primarily im%abited by low-and lowest-income families, the project had a
significant poverty impact. Over 50% of the households benefitting from the
project had monthly incomes that did not exceed 2.5 minimum salaries, and
about 25% of all households were headed by single women.
8.   Frolect Sustainability
8.01      Because of its very nature, a reconstruction project must be
considered as one-time effort that does not address sustainability as an
issue. However, great attention was given to use the project as an vehicle
for providing the population improved safety from the effects of future
earthquakes by developing new and innovative seism-resistant construction
techniques for low-income housing, and protect school children and hospital
patients from possible harm through the reinforcement of existing structures
and the use of strict standards for the construction of new facilities. Also,
to avoid creating additional bureaucratic bodies, programs such as RHP were
set up with a temporary mandate and promptly dissolved upon achieving their
objectives. Handling of credit recuperation by FONHAPO was easily absorbed
within its existing structures and did not create a significant additional
burden. Reinforcement of schools did not create any additional maintenance
costs and thus had no effect on the operating budget of SEP. Hospital
reconstruction iid not increase operating costs for IMSS, rather it
contributed to lower them by replacing older, inefficiently organized
facilities with new and more rationally designed ones.
9.   Bank Per£ormance
9.01      Bank staff contributed to the success of the project through a
close working relationship with operating agencies at every stage, starting
with the evaluation of the damage report, programming the reconstruction and
organizing the construction management team. To respond quickly to the
emevgency, project identification, preparation and appraisal were done
simultaneously. In collaboration with the Borrower specific procedures for
quantity, quality and cost controls were set up to compress the processing



- 12 -
time for, and speed up Bank approvals and disbursements. Furthermore, the
Bank maintained its commitmont to send in timely fashion and on average three
times a year full supervision missions generally composed of the same
specialists in housing, education, and health and who, in addition, had
participated in the appraisal of the project. Most implementation problems
were resolved in the field and Bank procedures never delayed the
implementation process.
10. Borrower's Performance
10.01     The Government and all authorities at Federal, State, and local
level displayed a continuously high commitment to the reconstruction efforts
and provided full support to the project. They showed a high degree of
flexibility for changing or circumventing established bureaucratic procedures
and regulations in ,rder to speed up processing of permits and other approvals
and were open to aniy adjustments, both technical and financial, for which the
need emerged in the course of implementation. BANOBRAS, as the financial
intermediary for the project, played a critical role in maintaining the fast
pace of reconstruction.
11. Consulting Services
11.01     Virtually all consulting services were provided by local firms or
individual consultants. A total of about 260 firms most of which were small
or medium sized, were mobilized to carry out design and related studies.
Sixty four firms provided direct supervision services for works executed by
740 building contractors engaged in various phases of construction and
equipment.
12. Prolect Documentation and Data
12.01     In accordance with procedures for emergency operations, no Staff
Appraisal Report was prepared. Instead, a President's Report with a
comprehensive technical annex was produced and served as a base document for
the early stages of project implementation. Most data for preparation of the
PCR was readily available in the Bank files. A comprehensive final report on
the project was prepared by the Government and is available on file. A
specific report on the RHP program was prepared in 1988 and is also on file.
13.     Findings and Lessons Learned
13.01     Natural disasters, like earthquakes require an immediate and quick
response and typically preclude the carrying out of lengthy preparatory
studies. An inevitable consequence is that any reconstruction proiect has to
be based on perfunctory, and often incomplete assessments of needs, both
physical and financial. To allow for the necessary adjustments to the actual
needs that arise during implementation, a high degree of flexibility and
willingness to make changes is required to achieve the objective of such an
operation. Readiness on part of both the Mexican Government and the Bank to
review the scope of individual project components and adapt implemerntation



- 13 -
mechanisms and procedures whenever needed, was a key factor in the success of
this project.
13.02     Because of strong Government commitment and the very high quality
of its civil service, Mexico was able to mobilize very quinkly the
considerable amount of human resources the reconstruction effort required
nationally either in public or the private sector. The Government wisely
resisted the temptation to create new, specific bureaucratic structures for
the management of the reconstruction effort and, insteac, used the existing
institutional framework or established bodies with a temporary mandate, such
as RHP, that were dissolved upon completion of their tasks.
13.03     Rebuilding in situ and relocating the low-income population victims
of the disaster wi.hin their original neighborhoods proved to be the most
efficient solution. It was in any event preferable to alternative to socially
disruptive resettlement in housing developments in the city's periphery.
Converting former tenants into owners and associating them with the planning
and design process greatly facilitated the implementation of the program and
had a positive effect of the rapid recovery of the population. However, this
was only possible because of the Government's decisiveness in carrying through
expeditiously a massive expropriation program.



- 14 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MEXICO
EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2665-ME)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Unofficial Translation)
1.   The earthquake of 1985 left 20,000 dead and caused damages estimated at
between US$4 and US$5 billion. The total economic losses exceeded this amount
by far and about 5,700 office buildings, schools, hospitals, and dwellings in
the downtown area were either destroyed or seriously damaged. 6/
2.   The damage in the Federal District - DF (Distrito Federal) were
particularly severe due to the characteristics of the sub-surface geology and
the high concentration of population, economic activities, and built-up
spaces, although this does not mean that the severity of the damages suffered
by 11 municipalities of the States of Jalisco, Colima, Michoacan, and Guerrero
should be minimized.
3.   Despite the austerity conditions imposed by the country's economic
situation in 1985, it was thanks to the efforts of the Government, the support
of the World Bank,1' and the donations received from countries and individual
persons,!' that the objectives set for rehabilitation (repair of damaged
buildings) and reconstruction (integral rebuildings of structures) in the
affected areas of the city could be achieved in less than five years.
Likewise, it was possible to improve building codes and urban planning
procedures by creating regulatory instruments at the municipal, state and
national level with a view to protect infrastructure and buildings from the
effects of futures seismic moves.
4.   Even if, evidently, the size of Loan 2665-ME was relatively small given
the magnitude of the damages, it is undeniable that it substantially
contributed to the reconstruction of the city and rebuilding of the urban
environment. Indirectly, the loan instilled new concepts into the normal
implementation of public works and housing programs as well as into the
6/   Aseesament undertaken under the auspices of the National Science Foundation and prepared by the Mexican Institute of U.S.
Architects (Inatituto Mexicanio de Arquleeccos de Escados Unidos). the Association of Mexican Architects (Colegio de
Arqultectos Mexicanos), and the Society of Mexican Architects (Sociedad de Arqultectos Mexicanos).
7/   Partial reallocation of unutilized resources of other Loans (1945-ME, 2428-ME, 2331-ME and 2450-ME) for the
implementation of emergency actions, and extension of a specific Loan (2665-ME) of an amount of US$400 million for
reconstruction and rehabilitation activities.
8/   Between its creation in September 1985 and April 1986, the National Reconstruction Fund (Fondo Naclonal de
Reconetrucclon) received donations in the amount of MXP 79 billion and US$14.2 million whicb, yielding interests of MXP
28.7 billion, and US$S million, respectively, were used for reconstruction works in accordance with the authorization
provided by the Mixed Technical Committee (Comlt6 Tdcnico Mlxto) that had been created to this effect. In very general
terms, the contributions can be estimated at about MXP 425 billion, without taking into consideration the participation
of the private sector through the provision, in kind, of land and construction supplies for its workers and employees,
the extension of credits for the restoration of economic activities, etc.



- 15 -
activities of planning and administration of resources. The intention of the
loan was to provide a global response to the damages caused by the earthquake.
A large number of Government entities were involved in the implementation,
wyhile others were specifically created. The success of the project was rooted
in an efficient inter-, and intra-institutional coordination, a comprehensive
technical approach, and a strong attention to social problems.
5.   The objectives of the housing component were extensively achieved
through the credits extended to the victims by FOVI (Fondo de Operaci6n y
Financiamiento Bancario a la Vivienda) and FONHAPO (Fondo Fideicomiso Nacional
de Habitaciones Populares), the later carrying out its activities through RHP
(Programa de Renovaci6n Habitacional Popular) and FASE II programs,
specifically established, in the case of the first one, for the construction
of housing units on expropriated land, and, in the case of the second one, for
the acquisition of damaged buildings which did not fall under expropriation
law, as well as through CASA PROPIA and, partly, support of the activities of
the Reconstruction Committee for the Southern area of the State of Jalisco.
In the field of education, CAPFCE (Comite Administrativo del Programa Federal
de Construcci6n de Escuelas) exceeded largely its original objective. For
reasons of budgetary restrictions, DDF (Departamento del Distrito Federal), on
the other hand, had to plan for a completion of its program in the medium term
with funding from its own resources. Regarding the health sector, the
implementation of the component was adversely affected by inflation. However,
the program will be completed by IMSS (Instituto Mexicano de Seguro Social)
during the period of 1991-1993 with funding from its own resources. In the
areas of studies, CONACYT (Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnologia), DDF, and
SEDUE (Secretaria de Ecologia y Desarrollo Urbano) in coordination with local
authorities, prepared building codes for DF as well as for nome other states
of the Republic.
6.   The nature of the calamity did not allow to assess and foresee
immediately the magnitude of the reconstruction program. This, together with
the economic difficulties with which the country was confronted on one hand,
and the rigidity of the budgetary procedures on the other hand, did not allow
to make full use of the potential of the technical assistance component
especially in areas like: (a) early warning and prevention techniques,
training, and civil defense, (b) preparation of urban planning instruments
that would permit the creation of reserve areas and the identification of
areas to be cleared because of vulnerability, and (c) preparation of
microzoning documents in accordance with the features of the subsurface
geology.
7.   The World Bank's insistence to give priority to the aspects of studies,
technical assistance and construction standards, prompted the preparation of
new building regulations which aim at guaranteeing a reduction in the risks of
damage to new constructions, build after 1985, as well as to those which were
repaired or reinforced in accordance with the code in effect since June 1987.
However, there exist still a significant number of public buildings which
require to be assessed for their compliance with the new standards.



- 16 -
8.   The principal objective of the project was achieved:  to satisfy the
needs generated by the earthquake through the reconstruction of vital centers
and the reestablishing of economic activities; to do budgetary planning and
continuously control the expenses of the project under execution with the
objective to optimize the use of loan and government resources, proved to be a
difficult task. It was clearly demonstrated that considerable amounts of
funds can be disbursed expeditiously and efficiently when the corresponding
administrative steps are mi.nimized. Stability and continuity were significant
features of the project.
9.   The Mexican Government appreciates the ability shown by staff of the
World Bank to understand the need for changes that emerged during the
negotiation and the implementation of the project, and the flexibility
demonstrated by agreeing to the following amendments: (a) partial
reallocation of unutilized resources of other loans and, concurrently, change
of the IBRD disbursement share to 83%; (b) reduction of the proportion to be
financed by domestic resources from 30% to 17%; (c) simplification of the
disbursement process including the application procedures and the preparation
of supporting documentation, (It is worth noting that BANOBRAS was able to use
these arrangements for other loans under execution); (d) exemption from the
obligation to International Competitive Bidding for civil works, with a view
to foster the participation of the local construction industry; (e)
simplification of procedures for the awzarding of contracts for civil works;
(f) agreement to reimburse, in the case of the FONHAPO sub-loans, expenditure
traditionally not eligible for Bank financing, namely expenses for temporary
housing and, for the FASE II program, cost of demolitiins.



- 17 -
PART III:   STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans:
Number - Prolect Title                       Purpose                      Year of APproval           Status             Comments
Loan 1554-ME                        Urban and Regional Development                   1978              Completed    Closed 1983
Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation
Loan 1990-ME                        Urban and Regional Development                   1981              Completed      Ctosed 1989 four years
Seeond Urban and                                                                                                       behind schedule
Regional Development
Loan 2612-HE                        Housing                                          1985              Completed       Finished two years
Low Income Housing                                                                                                     ahead of schedule
2. Project Timetable
Item                 Date Planned       Date Revised          Actual Date
- Identification91            10/30/85               -                10/30/85
- PreparationiV                   -                  -
- Appraisal Mission           11/04/85               _                11/04/85
- Loan Negotiations           03/02/85               -                03/02/86
- Board Approval              03/25/86               -                03/25/86
- Loan Signature              04/09/86               -                04/09/86
Loan Effectiveness         04/30/86                -                08/08/86
- Loan Closing                12/31/89               -                12/31/90
Loan Completion            06/30/90                -                04/30/91
3. Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(USS Millions)
Bank FY                       1986       1987        1988        1989       1990       1991
Appraisal Estimate                               92         262        368         400          -          -
Actual                                            0         283        338         373         390        400
Actual as X of Estimate                           0         1082         922        93Y
Date of last disbursement - 4/30/91
9/ Identification became the Reconnaissance mission.
10/ Because of the amergency nature of the reconstruction project. the Preparation and Appraisal missions wsre combined.



18 
4. Project ImRlementation
Indicators               Appraisal Estimate              Actual                        Comments
Housing
RHP                                  42.600                    42.000
FONHAPO - FASE II                     -5.400                   12.900
FOVI                                  11.800                   11.300
CASA PROPIA                              ^                      2.500
JALISCO                                 _                       3,200
TOTAL                        69,800                    72.400
Hospitals-IMSS
HCHA
- No  Hospitals                         6                        4
- No. Beds                            1.200                      700
Other Hospitals
- No  Hospitals                        5                        5
- No: Beds                             800                       120             Remainder under completion
Schools-CAPFCE E DF
Reconstruction/Repair                     48                      382
ReLnforcement                            950                    2.142
DF Markets
No. Rehabilitated                         13                      (13)             Implemented with DDF
resources



- 19 -
5. Proiect Costs and Financing
(US 5msffton )
Appraisal Estimate                                Actual
Item          Local      Foreign    Total               Local          Foreign     Total    Other Sources
Costs      Costs                          Costs          Costs                 (Loon 19YO-HE)
Hous inp,
- RHP              139.7       44.6      184.3               127.7          47.2       174.9           62.7
- FONHAPO           57.6        19.2      76.8                32.1          11.9        44.0            11.4
(Feae II)
- FOVI              47.1       25.4       72.5                52.8          19.5        72.3             -
- Case Propia         -          -          -                  6.6           2.5         9 1           3.1
- Jaliaco             -           -         -                  0.6           0.3         0.9           4.6
Subtotal    244.4         89.2      333.6              219.8           81.4      301.2           81.8
Iealth Care
HCHA Hospital         30.9        '0.6      51.5                29.5           19.6       49.1
Reg. Hospital         33.3       2,.1       55.4                38.5          25.7        64.2
Subtotal      64.2        42.7      106.9               68.0           45.3      113.3
Education
Reconstruction        10.4         4.4       14.8               12.6            5.4       18.0
Reinforcement         18.2         7.8      26.0                22.0           9.5        31.5
Subtotal      28.6        12.2       40.8               34.6           14.9       49.5
OF Markets             5.6         2.4       8.0                 4.9           2.1         7.0
Buiidia               24.8        36.8      61.6                24.8          37.7        62.5
.ton
TA & Studies          12.4         2.2       14.6                6.6           0.7         7.2
0.7        7.2
TOTAL                                      571.4                                         540.7
B.  Project Financin 
(SMlIone)
IBRD Expenditures              Planned Loan Agreement       Actual   Other Sources
(L.oan 1890-lE
Housing                                   172.0              226.8        81.8
-RHP                                   110.0              135.2          2.7
-FONHAPO - (Fase II)                    22.0               34.3         11.4
-FOVI                                   40.0               50.0          -
-Casa Propia                             -                   7.0         7.0
-Jalisco                                 -                  0.3          4.6
Health Care                                70.0               94.0
Education                                  30.0               43.6
DDF                                       42.0                29.6
-Narkets and Services                    33.5                21.1
-Debris Removal                           8.5                 8.5
TA and Studies                             10.0                6.0
Unallocated                                76.0 
TOTAL IBRD
Domestic
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                     400.0              400.0
171.4              140.7
571.4              540.7



-20-
6. Status of Maior Covenants
Loan Agreement
4.01         The Borrower would provide FONHAPO. in a timely manner funds.                         In compliance
facilities and servicea requir.d for the Housing Rehabilitation and
Reconstruction program.
5.01         The Borrower would providel
b(i)   the accounts and financial statements of FONHAPO and the                       to compliance
Special Account for each fiecas year audited.
b(ii)  the accounts and statements audited annually by independent.                   un Co tpliance, audits were prepared and
qualified auditora.                                                           furnished to the Bank in a timely manner.
b(iii) to the Bank monthly cortified atitements of the Special                        In compliance
Account.
5.02         (b)      PONHAPO would take all measures necessary to recover at                      In coup)3ance
least 502 of the principal amounts of the loans in real
terms.
(c)      FONHAPO would calculate each ye:c the project*d recovery in
real terms and take all measure  nedd to achieve 502 cost                   In compliancelY
recovery.
.LI/ The amortization period was extended from 7-8-1/2 years depending an the size of each loan.



- 21 -
7.   Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs - Man/Weoks
Planned                         Final
Stage of Project Cycle                               1      Field                      a Field            Total
Appraisal through Board  -proval             35               35             31.4          32.6            64.0            -Prep. and Apr.
(4/86)                                                                                                                     Comb ined
Board Approval through                        8                4              7.1           5.1            12.2            -Only one
Effectiveness (8/86)                                                                                                       mission
Supervision
F'.  87                                      20               10             14.1          9.6             23.7            -4 missions
FY *88                                       32               16             22.8         15.9             38.7            -3 missions
FY *89                                       10                5              5.9           2.1             6.0            -1 mission
FY 190                                        8                4              4.5           1.4             5.9            -1 mission
FY 191                                        6                3              4.8          2.0              6.8            -1 mission
119              77             90.6          68.7           159.3
B. Missions
Stage of Project Cycle        Month/      No. of        Days in        Specialist                Represented       Perform                Comments
Th;rough APR                   Year         Persons       Field                                                     RatinR
- Reconnaissance                 09/85         4            6           Housin  Reconstr.                                        - Damage Assessment
-Urban flanner
- Education
- Health
- Appralsal                      11/85        20         221'         - Above (4)                - Mun. Mgmt.                     - Full Preid.
- Public Utilities         - Econ.                         - Memo
-Bldg Code                  F inan.              -        -No SAR
- Struct. Eng.             - Legal
- Mitigation
- Appraisal through                -        (none)
Board approval /86
- Board approval                 05/86         4            9         - Housing Reconstr.                                         - Housing & Sch.-
through e fectiveness                                                - Engineer                                                 Reconstr. Started Health
- Education                                       -        Care Decentralized
- Health Arch.
Supervision
- SPN 1                          08/86         1            4         - Historic Bldg.                                   2        - Reuse of  Historic
Preserv.                                                Buildings
- SPN 2                          09/86         1            4         - Health                                           I        - SPN of Final Designs
Planner/Arch                                             3rd Level.
- SPN 3                          11/86         3            9                                                            1        - Phase II Housing Bldg.
- Education                                                Reinforcement
- Housint Reconstr.
- Financial
- SPN 4                          03/87         4            8                                    - Mitigation
- Housin  Recontr.         - Pinan.               I        - Housing Cost Recovery
- Health
- SPN 5                          07/87         4            6                                    - Mitigation                     - Adjust Credit Lines
- Housing Reconstr.        - Finan.               I
- Health/Education
- SPN 6                          10/87         1           11                                                            1        - Select Hospital
- Health                                                     Equipment
- SPN 7                          11/87         4           10                                    -Education              I        - Phase II Ad].
- Economist                - Mitigation                    - Mitigation Study
- Housing Reconstr.
- SPN 8                          04/88         4            9                                    - Mitigation            1       - FOVI Conclusion
- Housing Reconstr.                                        - Hous11ing Improvement
- Health/Educ.Econ.                                        - Mitigation Studies
- SPN 9                          01/89         3            5                                    - Education             I        - Hosp. Equipment
- Urban Planner
- SPN 10                         02/90         2            5                                    - Education             I        - Hosp. Conclusion
- Urban Planner                                            - School Reinforc.
- Economist
- SPN 11                         11/90         2             7                                   -Education              I        - Project Completion
- Urban Planner
Total                                         115
12/ Not all mission members stayed the full 22 days.



