Dons aof
The W. orld Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
OUA.  2&46z A-- c
Report No. P-4252-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$400 MILLION
TO
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C., I.B.D.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR AN EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
March 5, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit - Peso (Mex S)
On February 24, 1986, the exchange rate in the controlled market was
US$1   MexS431.80;  the free market exchange rate stood at US$1 = Mex$470.00.
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Minimum Wage in Mexico City       Mex$42,690/month (January 1986)
MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)          =   10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
1 square meter (m2)    =   10.76 square feet
ABBREVIATIONS
BANOBRAS    -   Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C., I.B.D.
CAPFCE      -   Comite Administrativo del Programa Federal de Construccion
de Escuelas
(Commission for Administering the Federal School Construction
Program)
CONACYT     -   Council for Science and Technology
DF          -   Federal District
DDF         -   Department of the Federal District
DPP         -   Directorate of Planning and Programming, Secretariat of Public
Education
EFF         -   Extended Fund Facility
FONHAPO     -   Low Income Housing Fund
FOVI        -   Fund for Housing Operations and Bank Discounting
IDB         -   Inter-American Development Bank
IMSS        -   Mexican Social Security Institute
NAFINSA     -   National Finance Corporation
NDP         -   National Development Plan
QRs         -   Quantitative Restrictions
RHP         -   Popular Housing Renewal Agency
SCT         -   Secretaria de Communicaciones y Transportes
(Secretariat of Communications and Transport)
SEDUE       -   Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y Ecologia
(Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology
SEP         -   Secretariat of Public Education
SG          -   Secretaria de Gobernacion
(Secretariat of the Interior)
SHCP        -   Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
(Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit)
SPP         -   Secretaria de Programacion y Presupuesto
(Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting)
SS          -   Secretaria de Salud
(Secretariat of Health)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXCO
EARTHQUAKE RERABILITATION AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summry
Borrower:         Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C., I.B.D.
Guarantor:        United Mexican States
Amount:           USs 400 million equivalent
Terms:            Fifteen years, including three years of grace at the standard
variable interest rate.
Relending Terms: The proceeds of the loan allocated to the Housing
Rehabilitation and Reconstruction components would be relent
by FOVI and FONHAPO on terms and conditions which vary with
the type of subproject and the unit cost of the facilities.
Project Objective
and Description: The objectives of the proposed project are: to assist the
Governuent in the rehabilitation (repair of damaged
buildings) and reconstruction (complete rebuilding of
structures) of the urban centers damaged by the earthquake of
September 19, 1985, and to improve construction standards and
planning through regulatory instruments at the municipal,
state and national levels to protect urban infrastructure and
superstructure from future earthquake tremors. The project
would comprise: (a) Housing Rehabilitation and Reconstruction
through rehabilitation of less heavily damaged dwellings, and
complete reconstruction of destroyed dwellings in low- and
middle-income residential areas; (b) Comnunity Facilities
comprising (i) reconstruction, rehabilitation and
reinforcement of school structures; (ii) replacement of
about 2000 general hospital beds; and (iii) replacement or
partial reconstruction of about 13 municipal markets; (c)
Demolition of public, residential, industrial, commercial and
hospital buildings which were damaged beyond repair, and
removal of debris, in the metropolitan area of Mexico City.
and (d) Institutional Support by providing technical
assistance and studies to (i) help strengthen a technical
coordinating unit; (ii) assist the executing agencies with
project preparation, implementation, and processing; and
(iii) develop, at the national level, a set of measures to
improve seismic-resistant building codes and technical
procedures.
Project Risks:    The main project risks would be delays in project execution
because of the large number of reconstruction activities to
be carried out simultaneously in many locations, and
insufficient preparation due to the urgency of the project.
These risks would be reduced by: (a) relying on existing
institutions of proven capacity; and (b) providing
hs document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the perfornance
of their official dutieL Its contents may not othewise be discloed wihout World BDnk authoriaton..



- ii -
technical assistance. Coordination arrangements (e.g.,
establishment of a Technical Coordinating Group) especially
established to carry out the reconstruction program would
also minimize these risks. The high priority assigned by the
Government to reconstruction efforts should reduce the risk
of delays in the provision of counterpart funds.
Estimated Project Costs:
Z of Total
Local      Foreign       Total       Project Cost
US$ million
I.   Housing
Rehabilitation             62.2         23.1          85.2          14.9
Reconstruction            143.5         50.4         193.9          34.0
II. Community Facilities
Health Care                49.3         36.2          85.5          14.9
Education                  23.9         10.2          34.1           6.0
Public Markets              4.7          2.0           6.7           1.2
III. Buildings Demolition and
Debris Removal            20.6         31.0          51.6           9.0
IV. Technical Assistance and
Studies                    10.4          1.8          12.2           2.1
V. Project Administration       5.0          -            5.0           0.9
Project Base Cost    319.6         154.6         474.2         83.0
Physical Contingency  35.3          16.4          51.7          9.0
Price Contingency      30.9         14.6          45.5          8.0
Total. Project Cost 1/    385.8        185.6         571.4         100.0
Local       Foreign         Total
FINANCING PLAN                      --- USS  million            -
Government                171.4          -             171.4
Bank                      214.4         185.6          400.0
Total                     385.8         185.6          571.4
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS                     --USS million
Bank FY                   1986      1987    1988      1989
Annual                     92        170     106        32
Cumulative                 92        262     368       400
1/ Figures do not add due to rounding. The project costs are net
of duties and taxes.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.,I.B.D.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR AN EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C., I.B.D. (BANOBRAS)
with the Guarantee of United Mexican States for the equivalent of US$400
million to help finance an Earthquake Rehabilitation and Reconstruction
Project. The loan would be repaid over 15 years including 3 years of grace,
at the standard variable interest rate. Proceeds of the loan would be
provided to executing agencies on varying terms and conditions.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic Report on Mexico (Mexico: Recent Economic Developments
and Prospects, No. 4996-ME) was distributed to the Executive Directors on May
14, 1984. A new Country Economic Memorandum is scheduled to be issued by
June, 1986. Recent economic developments and a provisional assessment of the
consequences for Mexico of the recent sharp decline in oil prices are
discussed below. Country data are provided in Annex I.
Background
3.        Following an inward-looking growth strategy, Mexico experienced
some three decades of high and stable growth from the 1940s to the 1960s. By
1970, however, Mexico had largely exhausted the early and efficient
possibilities for import substitution. Against the expectation of rapidly
rising petroleum earnings, the Government attempted to foster growth through
expansion of public sector expenditures, rising subsidies, and the protection
of high cost domestic production. Public sector expenditures as a percent of
GDP increased by more than half between 1970 and 1976, from 20.9% to 31.9%.
In 1976, Mexico experienced a serious financial and economic crisis.
Although an increase in oil revenues led Mexico to a quick economic recovery
in 1977, it also removed the urgency of policy reforms. Starting in 1980,
rapidly rising public expenditures unmatched by revenue growth led to
increasing public sector deficits. While inflation rose, no significant
pressure was felt to adjust the exchange rate, thanks to the oil earnings and
the relative ease of obtaining foreign finance.
4.        The crisis came to a head in 1982.  Public sector expenditures
reached the unprecedented level of 40.1% of GDP, while the deficit reached
nearly 18% of GDP. In February, as capital flight intensified, the Bank of
Mexico stopped supporting the peso, which then experienced a 40% devaluation
in US dollar terms. A large wage adjustment and continuing slack in the oil
market tended to undo the effects of the devaluation and kept the balance of



-2-
payments under strain. Consumer price inflation nearly quadrupled from 29Z
in 1981 to 99% in 1982. The international banking community declined to
commit new funds to Mexico in the amounts required. These factors led to a
second devaluation of 35Z in August 1982 and the suspension of amortization
payments on most of Mexico's external public debt. Capital flight continued
as private sector confidence was shaken by the nationalization of the banks
in September 1982 and by the mandatory conversion of US dollar deposits into
pesos. Also introduced were exchange controls and quantitative restrictions
covering all imports.
5.        Beginning in late 1982, with the support of an Extended Fund
Facility from the IMF, Mexico undertook a stabilization program based on
drastic contraction of domestic demand, through fiscal, exchange rate, and
monetary policy. The peso was depreciated to an unprecedented new low in
real terms, and import controls were tightened. Public sector expenditure in
relation to GDP declined over the period 1983-85, from the high of 40.1% in
1982 to about 33% by 1985. Non-interest expenditure declined to about 22% of
GDP by 1985, a ten-year low. Public sector investment was cut from about 10X
of GDP in the late 1970s to 6.6Z, again a ten-year low, and non-interest
current expenditure also declined, though more modestly, and remained still
at the levels of the late 1970s. Real wages fell 20-25Z between 1982 and
1984. Most public sector prices were raised in real terms.
6.        The stabilization effort for 1983-84 was impressive.  Imports fell
25Z, non-oil exports (including border industries) rose 40%, and the trade
balance showed unprecedented surpluses in 1983-84. Despite declining oil
prices, net foreign reserves increased from a negative US$2.0 billion to $6.5
billion between the end of 1982 and the end of 1984. The 1983-84 performance
was hailed by the international financial community as a model for other
countries. A massive foreign debt restructuring was successfully nego-
tiated. Total net foreign borrowing for the three-year period 1983-85
amounted to $4.5 billion, for an actual decline in the overall debt, in real
terms, of about 4Z. But the optimistic reaction to Mexico's success in
1983-84 overlooked the short-term focus of the stabilization program and the
absence of long overdue structural reforms. Optimism turned to disenchant-
ment a year later, when it became clear that stabilization in the absence of
more fundamental structural reforms could not restore Mexico's creditworthi-
ness, nor would sustainable economic growth be possible without such reforms.
7.        Despite tight fiscal and monetary policies, irflation in both 1983
and 1984 turned out to be much higher than had been projected by the authori-
ties, consumer prices rising by 80% and 59% respectively. The fiscal deficit
fell substantially in 1983, to 8.5% of GDP, but then leveled off in 1984.
GDP fell in both 1982 and 1983 (by 0.5% and 5.3% respectively), and recovered
only partially in 1984 (by about 3.5Z). GDP per capita by 1984 remained
below the levels of 1980 and income per head lower still. By late 1984, as
the Government prepared for the mid-term congressional elections of July
1985, fiscal policy began to ease, and public sector borrowing increased
substantially. Monetary policy turned accommodating, the exchange rate
appreciated further in real terms, and the fiscal deficit rose well above
program targets. The demand-led growth spurt that resulted, accompanied by
higher than projected inflation, was unsustainable and short lived.



-3-
Recent Developments
8.        Most program targets were missed in 1985.  The fiscal deficit rose
to 9.8%, inflation increased to 63.8%, non-oil exports declined by over 10%
from their 1984 levels, and most components of the balance of payments
deteriorated. Foreign reserves declined by nearly US$3.5 billion. While
external public debt actually declined during 1985, the domestic debt of the
public sector surged back up toward the level of 1982. As a result, crowding
out of the private sector in the credit markets was severe, as the share of
the public sector in total credit reached an unprecedented high in excess of
75% in 1985. The brief spurt of GDP growth between mid-1984 and mid-1985
came quickly to a halt in late 1985.
9.        In response to the emerging new crisis, the Government adopted
during the course of 1985 a series of important corrective measures, includ-
ing removing import licensing requirements from an additional 40% of merchan-
dise imports, thus increasing the share of imports not subject to QRs to 63%
of total imports.   The controlled exchange rate was devalued by almost 20%
in real terms, and the system of preaninounced fixed daily crawl was replaced
by a more flexible managed float. Important economies were announced in the
public sector, including the elimination of some 25,000 full-time positions
and plans to privatize over 230 small state owned companies. The Government
also started to rationalize parastatal operations. Further, aggressive
adjustment of the controlled exchange rate and a consequent narrowing of the
margin between the controlled and free rates, combined with tight domestic
credit brought capital flight to a virtual halt in late October.
10.       In spite of the reconstruction needs created by the September
earthquakes (estimated at US$4 billion), the authorities prepared an austere
budget for 1986. This budget signaled the commitment of the administration
to renewed demand-management efforts to recover internal and external balance
and move on to a sustainable growth path by the late 1980s. The budget aimed
at halving the fiscal deficit to 4.9% of GDP, through sharp cuts in transfers
and subsidies, smaller reductions in public investment, a surcharge on
upper-income taxpayers, and large adjustments in official prices and
tariffs. The 1986 program also stressed the importance of continuing
policies to liberalize trade, and pushing ahead with other major reforms such
as the restructuring/privatization of some parastatal companies and the
easing of remaining restrictions to foreign investment.
11.       The recent instability in the world oil markets has lowered the
government's revenue projections for 1986. The expectation of lower prices
and volume of oil exports for this year, despite its negative fiscal and
balance of payments implications, has not affected the Administration's
resolve to continue with the stabilization cum structural reform policy. The
1986 budget that is now being revised will undoubtedly reflect a larger
public sector deficit and larger external finaneing requirements. For the
fiscal deficit, part of the loss from oil taxes will be offset by further
trimming of subsidies and public expenditures. Similarly the increase in
foreign borrowing requirements will be much smaller than the actual drop in



- 4-
oil export receipts, as a result of foreign interest rates, imports and
build-up in reserves all expected to be lower than the original budget
assumptions. Hence, the picture for external financing needs, although some-
what more difficult, should remain manageable barring further major declines
in Mexico's oil export prospects.
Medium-Term Prospects
12.       Mexico's medium-term prospects for recovery and stable economic
growth remain good, provided the Government is persistent in pursuing its
current stabilization program accompanied by major structural adjustment
policies (including trade liberalization cum non-oil export promotion,
restructuring/privatization of parastatal companies), private sector
confidence is restored, and the international environment remains reasonably
favorable, including open markets for Mexico's non-oil exports. Restoration
of private sector confidence is crucial, since only a strong and dynamic
private sector will be able to raise investment and production from the
present depressed levels and supply the increasing non-oil export surplus
required for the resumption of growth and the attainment of sound balance of
payments prospects.   As regards the external environment, the international
financial community should be prepared to provide financing in support of
sound, growth-oriented economic policies.
13.       Under moderately favorable external and domestic conditions,
Mexico's economic growth could reach a sustainable 4-5Z a year toward trhe
late 1980s. However, should a more outward-oriented growth pattern
comprising fiscal discipline, improved domestic efficiency, and non-oil
export development fail to materialize, Mexico could enter into a period of
prolonged stagnation, characterized by insufficient labor absorption, domes-
tic price distortions, and continued balance of payments difficulties.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
14.       Mexico's external public and private debt increased by about US$6
billion during 1983-84, and fell by US$1.5 billion in 1985 to US$92.8. With
an international oil price of US$20/barrel, the net new borrowing require-
ments are expected to average some US$2-3 billion per annum during the
remainder of the decade, with the debt service ratio remaining a little over
50%. With an oil price of US$15/barrel, the net borrowing requirements would
be an average of US$4-5 billion per annum during the same period, while the
debt service ratio would be around an average of 55%.
15.       At the end of 1985, the Bank's share in Mexico's public debt was
5.1%. The Bank's share in Mexico's total public external interest payments
was 4.3%. The Bank's exposure in Mexico as of end-1985 amounted to 7.6X of
its total. In view of the expectation that sound economic policies will be
pursued in the future, Mexico is considered creditworthy for this loan.
I



-5-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
Bank Operations
16.       As of September 30, 1985, Mexico had received 91 loans from the
Bank, amounting to US$7.72 billion, net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 59 loans totalling US$3.6 billion were fully disbursed. The Bank held
US$6.1 billion, of which USS2.4 billion had not yet been disbursed. Some 40%
of Bank lending has been for agriculture and rural development, 202 for
industry, 9X for power, and 18% for transportation; the remaining 13% has
been for water supply, tourism, urban development, and vocational training.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of September 30, 1985.
17.       Of the US$7.72 billion total lending, about US$4.7 billion was for
establishing or strengthening institutions for channelling credit to areas
where credit supply was deficient or non-existent, and setting up in the com-
mercial banking system the ability to carry out project-related appraisal of
investments in agriculture, industry, and tourism. These credit programs
have facilitated lending to low-income farmers and small- and medium-scale
industrial and tourism enterprises.
18.       The Government arranged adequate budget financing in the years 1978
to 1981, which significantly improved project implementation. Government and
Bank officials met periodically to review project implementation, and greater
attention was focused on project monitoring. As a result of these measures,
most of the Bank-assisted projects were being implemented satisfactorily
until mid-1982, and disbursements rose from US$91 million in FY78, to USS448
million in FY82. However, the 1982 financial crisis again caused delays in
the provision of counterpart funds; consequently, disbursements in FY83
declined to US$389 million. A Special Action Program (SAP) was established
in early 1983 to help the Government by alleviating the counterpart funding
constraints on development projects, and 18 Bank-financed projects are
receiving support under the Program. Partly as a result of the SAP, dis-
bursements during FY84 improved significantly at US$528.87 million or 35%
over disbursements in 1983. The FY85 disbursement figure is USS787.93
million, 49% over 1984 or 100% over projected.
IFC Operations
19.       As of September 30, 1985, IFC had made investment commitments in 27
companies in Mexico, for a total of US$753.9 million, of which USS572.8 mil-
lion had been sold, repaid or cancelled. A summary statement of IFC invest-
ments is presented in Annex II. IFC has been working together with the Bank
in preparing proposals to establish a facility for provision of foreign
exchange financing to private sector companies, for the importation of
machinery, equipment, and spare parts required for production of exportable
products, for efficient import substitution, and for improvements in the
utilization of their existing productive capacity. IFC approved a US$100
million facility (including funds mobilized from foreign commercial banks) in
1983, which is providing finance for fixed investments of a larger size than
those assisted under the Bank loan for an Export Development Project.



-6-
Bank Strategy
20.       The Bank's major objectives in Mexico prior to the 1982 crisis were
to: (a) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribution of the
benefits of economic growth; (b) help finance projects that, directly or
indirectly, contributed significantly to output and employment; (c) help
reduce Mexico's urban/regional imbalances; and (d) help free bottlenecks
which prevent rapid growth. These continue to be important objectives of
Bank assistance to Mexico. However, following the 1982 economic crisis, and
a reassessment of the Bank's role in Mexico, the Bank Management concluded
that: (a) increased Bank lending, critical to Mexico's recovery, must be
linked to central policy reforms; and (b) the Bank should play a central role
in assisting Mexico's return to voluntary lending. To prepare itself for
this new role, the Bank has intensified and broadened its economic and sector
work. Specific policy reforms that are presently being pursued through a
dialogue with the Mexican Government cover priority macro-economic and
cross-sectoral issues, such as trade liberalization, rationalization of
preferential credit systems, improvement in public sector pricing and invest-
ment and subsidy reduction. Traditional lending incorporating project- or
sector-specific policy issues will be conducted in parallel with policy
dialogue on cross-sectoral or macro-policy issues.
21.       Because of the difficult structural problems of agriculture and the
sector's crucial importance for the one-third of the nation's population
living in rural areas, the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for
its lending. The Bank's agricultural lending program in Mexico aims at (a) a
more efficient and rational use of natural resources to increase production;
(b) productivity improvements of cultivated lands, with emphasis on the
productivity of small farmers; and (c) promotion of employment - generating
investments in rural areas. To support these goals, infrastructure invest-
ments in Bank-assisted projects have been complemented with support services,
such as extension, marketing programs and credit. The Bank has made 10 loans
in FYs8O-85 totalling USS1,566.0 million for irrigation, rural and agricul-
tural investment projects, and agro-industrial and livestock credit
programs. A proposed loan for a Second Tropical Agricultural Project was
distributed to the Executive Directors for consideration on March 4, 1986.
Projects for irrigation rehabilitation, extension and research, seed
multiplication, forestry, agro-industries and agricultural credit are in
various stages of preparation. Special emphasis has been placed in recent
years on the development of rainfed areas.
22.       Bank lending for industry aims at:  (a) improving competitiveness
and export growth in selected industrial subsectors; (b) decentralizing
industrial activities away from the major, increasingly congested, urban
areas; and (c) promoting greater employment. Between FYs8O-85, seven loans
amounting to USS947.3 million were approved in the areas of small- and
medium-scale industry, mining, vocational training, development of capital
goods industries, and promotion of exports. In response to the current needs
of the industrial sector, several projects to support non-oil export develop-
ment, acquisition of modern technology, financial restructuring of enter-
prises, and industrial recovery and growth are in various stages of prepara-
tion. A Trade Development Policy Loan (DPL) is now being appraised aiming at



- 7 -
supporting the trade liberalization process, assisting in the recovery of
sustainable economic growth and facilitating the mobilization of commercial
bank funds to cover part of the external financing needs for 1986.
23.       Bank lending for transport has focused on regional development,
strengthening of institutions and rationalization of public investment out-
lays and pricing policies. Between FYs8O-85 six loans amounting to US$753.7
million were approved including two in each of the following three sub-
sectors: highways, rai'vays and ports. Additional projects to support the
above goals were undertaken in the urban sector. During FYs8O-85 four loans
were approved in the urban sector, totalling US$408.5 million in the fields
of water supply and sewerage and urban development. Additional projects are
under consideration in the transport and urban sectors aiming at strengthen-
ing the various institutions in the areas of planning, management, and
finance.
24.       The Economic Development Institute (EDI) is assisting Mexico
through various courses/seminars dealing with policy alternatives and insti-
tutional reforms. EDI training is specifically directed at courses/seminars
on water supply and sanitation sector management, transport policy, agricul-
tural policy, industrial development and finance, and macro-policy analysis.
25.       The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest
source of multilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans to Mexico
totalling US$3.4 billion as of September 30, 1985. Over 50% of the total has
gone to agricultural and rural development projects, and the balance to
transportation, industry, water supply and sewerage, tourism infrastructure,
education, municipal development and pre-investment. The IDB and the Bank
have coordinated their assistance on several projects. Each has made loans
for the national integrated rural development program (PIDER)} agricultural
and livestock credit, small- and medium-scale industries development, and
hotel development projects. The IDB is also providing a program of assistance
for earthquake rehabilitation and reconstruction. The International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD) has approved a loan of US$22.0 million for a
rural development project in the State of Oaxaca, which was appraised by the
Bank's staff and for which the Bank is acting as cooperating institution for
administering the loan.
PART III - BACKGROUND
The Administrative Structure
26.       The Government structure in Mexico is highly centralized with the
federal government selectively delegating power to the 31 states and 2,379
municipalities. Municipalities are the primary political and administrative
units of government. Municipal governments are headed by mayors who,
together with approximately 10% of senior municipal officials, are elected
for three-year terms and are not eligible for re-election. In accordance
with the recent modifications to Article 115 of the Constitution, municipali-
ties are responsible for the planning and delivery of various urban services
including: water supply and sewerage, drainage, solid waste management, roads



- 8 -
and streetlighting, retail and wholesale markets, slaughterhouses, parks and
gardens, graveyards, traffic management and public security. Municipal
governments have full authority to set and collect user charges and property
taxes, to plan, finance and implement investments, and to operate and
maintain basic municipal services.
27.       At the federal level, various Government agencies are involved in
overseeing policy and in providing technical assistance to municipalities.
The Secretaria de Cobernacion (SG) is concerned with the jurisdiction, status
and administration of local governments and their political relations with
the Federal Government. The Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico (SHCP)
is responsible for revenue collection, for overseeing the financial manage-
ment and revenue operations of local governments, for determining sources of
financing at the federal level, and for the operation and management (includ-
ing credit operations) of the Government's financial agents. The Secretaria
de Programacion y Presupuesto (SPP) reviews and subsequently evaluates state
and local budgets to ensure that their priorities are consistent with
national and regional plans, programs and statutory requirements. SPP is
also responsible for the federal budgetary allocations to municipalities.
The Secretaria de Desarrollo Urbano y Ecologia (SEDUE) is the principal
normative authority responsible for water supply, sewerage, solid waste and
other basic municipal services. SEDUE is responsible for advising on and
reviewing of land use plans prepared by state and local governments and for
providing technical assistance and support for all municipal and urban
services. All of the Secretariats have regional offices in each state.
The Earthquake Emergency
28.       On September 19, 1985, Mexico was hit by one of the worst earth-
quakes in its history, measuring 8.1 on the Richter scale. Approximately
8,000 people were killed and many more thousands injured. The epicenter of
the earthquake was near the Pacific Coast in the proximity of the border
between the States of Michoacan and Guerrero. The heaviest damage occurred
in Mexico City and neighboring municipalities in the State of Mexico,
although serious damage also occurred in eleven municipalities to the west
and southwest of Mexico City in the States of Jalisco, Colima, Michoacan and
Guerrero. The eleven municipalities were (i) in Jalisco - Gomez Farias and
Cuidad Guzman; (ii) in Colima - Manzanillo; (iii) in Michoacan - Lazaro
Cardenas, Cotdia and Coalcoman, and (iv) in Guerrero - Chilpancingo de los
Bravo, Iguala de la Indepencia, La Union, Jose Azueta and Cohayutla de
Guerrero.
29.       Virtually all sectors of the economy were affected, including
housing, health, education, telecommunications, production, public adminis-
tration and tourism. The damage in Mexico City was particularly devastating
because of the very heavy concentration of population, economic activity and
buildings. The vulnerability was increased by the fact that the center of
the city is built on highly compressible clay in an ancient lake bed. The
loss of life would almost certainly have been more catastrophic but for the
fact that the earthquake occurred in the morning, shortly after 7 a.m. when
people were in transit, rather than at work.



30.       In Mexico City an estimated 60% of the Federal Government buildings
were lost (970,000 square meters of floor space) with the consequence that
120 government agencies lost all or part of their office space, equipment and
files; some 115,000 dwellings in Mexico City were destroyed or heavily
damaged; most of the schools in the Federal District and many in the
neighboring states were damaged, many so severely that they will require
complete reconstruction or major repair. The damage to the telephone system
was the largest ever to happen in the world to a telecommunications system.
In the health sector, hospitals with more than 5,000 beds were destroyed or
damaged; the four most important hospitals in Mexico City were lost. Water
supply was interrupted in large parts of Mexico City and the other affected
municipalities; however, overall damage to urban infrastructure, including
water and sewerage, paving and street lighting, was minor when compared to
the damage to buildings. Restoration of water and sewerage service to
pre-earthquake levels is already nearing completion (which, however, will
still leave severe water shortages which existed prior to the earthquake in
many low income neighborhoods). Losses to small scale industry were severe;
the garment industry was particularly hard hit, with the production facili-
ties of approximately 500 firms destroyed. The tourism industry suffered
major losses of hotel facilities in the Federal District and the tourist
resort of Ixtapa. (See Annex XII: Photographic documentation and Map of
Mexico City showing earthquake damage by city block).
31.       The cost of earthquake reconstruction and rehabilitation work is
estimated at about $4 billion, including essential repairs and strengthening
of existing buildings, and relocation of some facilities. The cost estimate
is based on higher construction standards using improved seismic-resistant
methods.
Government Response to the Emergency
32.       While Mexico has experienced severe earthquakes in the past,
notably in 1957 and 1979, the Government was not prepared for a disaster of
the magnitude which struck in 1985, and adequate preparedness plans were
lacking. However, relief operations were started quickly. The spontaneous
response of the population was remarkable, showing great resourcefulness in
organizing the rescue operations. Incidents of antisocial behavior were
isolated events.  The  extended family  was very helpful in providing
emergency shelter and relief. Given the availability of food, clothing and
medicines locally, the decision on the part of the authorities to request
that relief aid be provided in cash was quite appropriate. This prevented
clogging the airport-one of the few remaining points of contact with the
exterior-and distorting the local economy by flooding it with items
available in the country.
33.       Immediately after the earthquake the President set up two Emergency
Committees; one for the Federal Distict and one for the other affected
areas. Both committees had as their objectives to evaluate building damage;
assess needs for demolition or repairs; and identify, within the damaged
areas, those buildings that were safe for immediate reoccupancy. The Com-
mittees include representatives from the Department of the Federal District
(DDF) and the municipal authorities in the affected areas, the Geophysics



- 10 -
Institute of the National University, the Laboratory of Soil Mechanics of the
Polytechnic Institute, the Engineers' Association, the Architects' Associa-
tion and the Mexican Association of Seismic Engineering.
34.       On October 3, 1985, the President announced creation of a Natlonal
Reconstruction Committee to determine and guide reconstruction policy. The
committee is headed by the President himself and is composed of six
sub-committees: (i) Reconstruction of the Metropolitan area of Mexico City;
(ii) Decentralization; (iii) Financial Aspects; (iv) Social Assistance;
(v) International Assistance; and (vi) Civil Defense and Disaster Prevention.
A Reconstruction Fund was established in the National Finance Corporation
(NAFINSA) to receive and channel emergency aid as agent of the Secretariat of
Finance. Operation of the Fund is by a committee headed by the Secretary of
Finance and includes representatives of the Secretariat of Planning and
Programming, NAFINSA, the private sector and labor unions.
35.       Given the large number of sectors and agencies involved, efficient
cross-sectoral coordination is critical. For this purpose, an
inter-disciplinary, inter-agency Technical Coordinating Group was established
in December 1985. The Technical Coordinating Group operates under the
Secretariat of Finance and is composed of experts in economics, law, urban
planning, housing, health, communications, decentralization, programming,
finance, and other areas required for the implementation of programs and
projects. As required by the nature of the problems under consideration from
time to time, representatives from other agencies are requested to
participate in the Group.
36.       Specific responsibilities of the Technical Coordinating Group
include:
(a)  Coordinating the different programs and activities included in the
reconstruction effort;
(b)  Assisting the involved agencies in ensuring the compatibility of
the reconstruction program with overall national economic policies;
(c)  Coordinating with the Secretariat of Planning and Programming (SPP)
the allocation of local counterpart funding necessary for external
financing;
(d)  Assisting the National Reconstruction Fund in the orientation and
supplementing of external resources;
(e)  Advising and supporting the implementing agencies in the
identification, preparation, presentation, and execution of
projects;
(f)  Advising the executing agencies on aspects  f project processing
with the Bank and other international financing agencies (such as
IDB), ircluding procurement and disbursement procedures;



- 11 -
(g) Coordinating the implementation of programs;
(h) Evaluating the completion of works in each sector.
Mi) Assisting in the preparation of plans and programs for
decentralization with a view to obtaining external funding to
support their goals.
37.      Actual execution of the reconstruction projects is the responsi-
bility of the respective sector secretariats (Health, Education, Commerce and
Industry, Transport and Communications, Housing and Urban Development), the
Mexican Social Security Institute (IMSS), the DDF, and Popular Housing
Renewal (RHP - a new organization established to coordinate the rehabilita-
tion/reconstruction of low-income housing in the Federal District). Although
there are variations among these agencies, they have, with the exception of
RHP, long experience and are quite efficient in carrying out construction
projects in their respective spheres of responsibility.
The Decentralizatici Strategy
38.       A key policy enunciated in the President's speech of October 3,
1985, was his announcement that the reconstruction process will be based on
the strategy of decentralizing activities and functions from the Federal
District to the states. For more than 10 years, the Government has been
attempting to address the over-concentration of people and economic activity
in Mexico City (and to a lesser extent in Guadalajara and Monterrey). During
the previous administration (1976-82) a series of steps were taken to promote
decentralization, including the creation of a new Secretariat of Human
Settlements and Public Works, the issuance of new federal-state institutional
procedures, and the creation of federal programs and special incentive
schemes to attract investments in pre-defined priority regions.
39.       President Miguel de la Madrid's administration has again assigned
high priority to decentralization efforts. The constitution has been amended
to increase the responsibility of municipalities in the planning, financing,
implementing, operating and maintaining of basic municipal services, and the
role of federal agencies has been modified to conform to the municipalities'
increased responsibilites. The present strategy, unlike previous approaches
which concentrated mainly on decentralization of physical facilities,
emphasizes the delegation of responsibilities which were previously
centralized in federal government secretariats in Mexico City, to either
federal agencies operating at the state level or to state and municipal
governments.
40.       The Government is seizing the earthquake reconstruction program as
an opportunity to accelerate the decentralization program. For example,
instead of reconstructing office space which was destroyed or heavily damaged
in Mexico City, staff and operations of various Secretariats are to be
located in 20 selected cities in various regions of the country. The Govern-
ment's objective is to address the decentralization program in these 20
cities in an integrated manner in which policy, financing and investments are
coordinated at the federal level with state and municipal plans and



- 12 -
programs. Reconstruction plans in Mexico City take into account the reduced
needs in sectors such as housing and health care resulting from the Govern-
ment's decentralization program. The proposed project addresses the
decentralization efforts in the housing and health care sectors by helping to
replace some dwellings and hospitals which were destroyed in Mexico City with
new dwellings and hospitals outside the city.
41.       The Bank strategy supports the policy of decentralization and,
since 1978, the Bank has assisted the Government in projects aimed at
addressing spatial decentralization through the development of alternative
growth poles and deconcentration of the Mexico City region. This assistance
has been given through two urban development loans (1554-ME of September 27,
1978, and 1990-ME of May 12, 1982), a loan for rainfed agricultural
development (1945-ME of March 2, 1981), a loan for the Deconcentration
Program for the Mexico City Region (2194-ME of August 3, 1982) and a loan for
a Low Income Housing Project (2612-ME of August 6, 1985). A series of Water
Supplj loans has also supported the decentralization efforts and more
equitable regional distribution of benefits through assistance in medium-size
cities. The Bank's most recent support for decentralization is through a
proposed $40 million loan for a Municipal Strengthening Project and a
proposed $25 million loan for a Solid Waste Management Project, which are
being presented for consideration of the Executive Directors together with
the proposed Earthquake Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Project.
Mobilization of External Resources
42.       Since the earthquake, the Government has actively sought emergency
financial assistance from external sources, with considerable success.
Following is a brief summary of funds already available or likely to become
available in the near future from external sources other than the Bank (a
more detailed discussion of the Bank's role follows):
IDB - $300 million, of which a $100 million loan for rehabilitation
and a $200 million loan for reconstruction of education, health,
and telecommunications facilities (the division of assistance
between IDB and the proposed Bank loan in the education and healtb
care sectors is indicated in paras. 55 and 56, respectively);
IMF - $300 million, representing an advance on the expected
stand-by program for 1986;
Assistance from bilateral government aid and private relief
agencies - $100 million;
Insurance coverage - $450 million.
The Bank's Response to the Emergency
43.       On the day of the earthquake Bank staff were in Mexico and were
able to begin dibcussions immediately with the Government. A strategy for
Bank assistance in reconstruction was discussed and agreed in principle with
the Government, and this strategy was confirmed subsequently when the
Secretary of Finance visited Washington. Bank staff continued to work
closely with the Government during a preappraisal mission in October 1985,
an appraisal mission in November, and in meetings with Mexican officials who



- 13 -
visited the Bank in December 1985 and January 1986. Bank staff have also
coordinated closely with staff of IDB, IMF, and the United Nations in order
to avoid duplication of effort and assist the efficient use of external
resources in the reconstruction effort. In this process, considerable
progress has been made in implementing the agreed strategy (para. 44).
Strategy for Bank Assistance
44.       The agreed strategy called for a two-pronged approach.  First,
there would be a Special Assistance Program consisting of adjustments to
ongoing Bank loans which would address reconstruction needs In project areas
and/or relevant subsectors affected by the earthquake; this would provide
immediate "bridging" finance to meet some of the most urgent needs pending
the availability of funds from other sources. Second, a Rehabilitation/
Reconstruction loan would be processed which would provide additional funds
for rehabilitation/reconstruction works and assist the Government in handling
reconstruction management, planning and financing issues stemming from the
catastrophe. The proposed project emerged after assessing the most urgent
needs based on a first-hand observation of the earthquake damage, a review
of priorities with the Government, consultations with other international
agencies concerning availability and possible application of external funds
from non-Bank sources, and an analysis of institutional absorptive capacity
(i.e., the capability in the various sectors to implement components and
sub-components of the rehabilitation/reconstruction program). In addition,
the forthcoming operations for FY86 and FY87 will examine reconstruction
needs in their respective areas with a view to tailoring project designs to
address such needs as necessary.
Special Assistance Program (Amendment of Ongoing Loans)
45.       Under the Special Assistance Program, approximately $173 million is
being made available through amendments to five loans. In response to the
Government's budgetary constraints and the problem of providing counterpart
funds - which was already difficult before the earthquake emergency - the
amended loans provide for financing of 70X of eligible expenditures over an
18-month period. Following is a summary of the amounts being made available
by the amendments and the purposes for which the funds are being used.
Loan 2331-ME Export Development Project
$41.1 million made available for reconstruction, repair and
replacement of telecommunication facilities and equipment
($30.0 million) and television facilities and equipment (S11.l
million);
Loan 2281-ME Third Medium Size Cities and Sinaloa State Water
Project - $17.5 million for repair and reconstruction of water and
sewerage systems and related street paving in Mexico City and
medium size cities in the affected coastal states;
Loan 2450-ME Lazaro Cardenas Industrial Port Project - $19.0
million for repair and replacement of civil works and equipment at
the Port;



- 14 -
Loan 1945-HE Rainfed Agricultural Development Project  - $14.0
million to replace lost office space in Mexico City with approxi-
mately 50 additional centers outside the City (to support
decentralization);
Loan 1990-ME Second Urban and Regional Development Project - $81.8
million for reconstruction and rehabilitation of low income housing
in Mexico City and Cuidad Guzman (State of Jalisco).
46.       In addition, Loan 2428-ME (Second Highway Sector Project) was
amended to provide assistance to the Secretaria de Comunicaciones y
Transportes (SCT) in the demolition, rehabilitation and reconstruction of
office space in Mexico City. In order to simplify disbursement and
supervision efforts, Bank assistance to SCT was provided by increasing the
disbursement rate to 70% in order to free funds for demolition,
rehabilitation and reconstruction of office space. As with the above loans,
this wi1i ease the counterpart funding and permit quicker disbursement of
these loans.
Bank Experience in Reconstruction Projects
47.       The lessons learned from the Bank's experience in other reconstruc-
tion projects have been taken into account in the design of the proposed
project. The Bank's experience indicates that reconstruction projects should
address the specific nature of the emergency, i.e., concentrate on rebuilding
essential physical assets; support the use of existing institutions to the
maximum extent possible; avoid introducing major new policy initiatives;
address the needs for cross-sectoral coordination; streamline administrative
procedures including simplified procurement and disbursement procedures; and
keep the implementation period relatively short.
PART IV - THE REHABILITATION AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
48.       The proposed project was prepared by the Secretariats of Finance
(SHCP), Planning and Programming (SPP), Urban Development and Ecology
(SEDUE), and Education (SEP), and BANOBRAS, the Federal District Department
(DDF) and the Mexican Social Security Institute (IMSS), under the general
policy guidance of the National Reconstruction Committee headed by the
President. Bank staff appraised the project in November 1985. In view of
the emergency nature of the project and in line with similar cases in the
past, an Appraisal Report was not prepared for this project. A supplementary
project data sheet and other project details are provided in Annexes III to
XII. Negotiations for the proposed loan took place ir Washington, D.C., from
February 28 through March 2, 1986. The Mexican delegation was headed by Mr.
German Sandoval of BANOBRAS and included representatives from SHCP, and
SEDUE.
Project Approach, Objectives and Rationale
49.       The two principal objectives of the proposed project are (a) to
assist the Government in the rehabilitation (repair of damaged buildings) and
reconstruction (complete rebuilding of structures) of the urban areas damaged



- 15 -
by the earthquake, and (b) to improve construction standards and planning
through regulatory instruments at the municipal, state, and national levels
to protect urban infrastructure and superstructure from future severe earth-
quake tremors. The first objective would be achieved through the demolition
and removal of heavily damaged structures and the rehabilitation and/or
reconstruction of community facilities and housing. The second would be
achieved through a program for reinforcing school buildings in the Federal
District (DF) and a program of technical assistance and studies designed to
identify the earthquake hazard urban areas in the country and develop appro-
priate damage mitigation measures and regulations, appropriate construction
codes, and land-use and micro-zoning plans at the municipal level. This
approach would support a coherent reconstruction process, provide a
foundation for restoring a basic level of economic activity arid help to
minimize the potential dangers of future earthquakes.
The Project Description
50.       The project would consist of the following components:  Housing
(58% - estimated cost, $334 million); Community Facilities (27% - estimated
cost, $156 million); Buildings Demolition and Debris Removal (11% - estimated
cost $62 million); and Technical Assistance (3% - estimated cost $15
million). In addition, the project would include Project Administration
estimated at $6 million or about 1% of total cost. These figures are
inclusive of contingencies, design, and supervision. A description of the
components and subcomponents follows.
A. Housing Rehabilitation and Reconstruction
51.       The major part of this component consists of the rehabilitation and
reconstruction of low cost housing in a heavily damaged area of 250 hectares
in the center of the Federal District; this area is composed of some 4,320
parcels of land in 70 low-income neighborhoods which were expropriated soon
after the earthquake. A new agency - the Popular Housing Renewal Agency
(RHP) - was established in October 1985 under the Department of the Federal
District (DDF) for the express purpose of undertaking the rehabilitation and
reconstruction of this area. RHP would go out of existence when this task is
completed. The two other parts of the housing component consist of rehabili-
tation and reconstruction of housing in other parts of the metropolitan area
of Mexico City and outside the metropolitan area.
52.       Rehabilitation.  Under this subcomponent, about 30,500 dwellings
would be rehabilitated, of which about 15,700 would be undertaken by RHP.
REP would contract the structural improvements in appropriate groupings
(about 400 to 500 units) of housing. The beneficiaries would be families
where the income of the head of household is less than 2.5 minimum salaries.
They would receive a minimal reinforced structural shell of about 40 m2 net
area, along with building materials to finish their dwellings using
supervised self-help labor or contract labor. The project would also support
the rehabilitation of about 8,000 dwellings with an average of 50 m2 for
families in low-income (head of household maximum income 2.5 minimum
salaries) neighborhoods on land not expropriated on the edge of the Central
Business District. In addition, about 6,800 individual low and middle income



- 16 -
families (head of household income 2.0 to 7.4 minimum salaries) would be
assisted in rehabilitating their dwellings which would have an average size
of 60 m2; approximately three-fourths of these dwellings would be located in
the metropolitan area and the remainder outside that area.
53.       Reconstruction.  About 39,270 dwellings would be reconstructed, of
which about 26,870 are in the 70 low-income neighborhoods on the expropriated
land. In groupings of about 400 to 500 housing units, PEP would use contrac-
tors to build the structures and rough-in plumbing and electrical installa-
tions. The beneficiaries (less than 2.5 minimum salaries) would receive the
*shell" dwelling and be provided building materials through the RHP building
materials depot. They would finish their dwellings through supervised
self-help labor. Where appropriate, work space would be provided in the
Popular Housing component specially for the garment 'piece workers". RHP
will certify as to the need for such space. About 7,400 dwellings with an
average of 50 m2 would be reconstructed for low-income families (maximum of
2.5 minimum salaries) on land not expropriated. In addition, the project
would provide about 5,000 modest 70 m2 apartments for low and middle income
(2.0 to 7.4 minimum salaries) in low-rise (walk-up) buildings in condominium
ownership as originally organized prior to the earthquake; approximately
three-fourths of these dwellings would be located in the metropolitan area
and the remainder outside that area.
54.       For most of the above housing (i.e., all of the housing located or
to be located in the central area of Mexico City), the site development plans
would be set within the framework of a comprehensive Reconstruction Plan,
including the existing Preliminary Land Use and Zoning Plans for the Central
Area of Mexico City which is satisfactory to the Bank at present. However,
the Bank, through the Technical Assistance component of the proposed loan,
would be cooperating and assisting in finalizing the plans and the
preparation of the related regulatory measures by December 1986.
B. Community Facilities
55.       Schools.  The proposed project would provide for major
reconstruction of heavily damaged public schools; rehabilitation of some
1,900 less seriously damages schools is being assisted by IDB. The proposed
Bank project would include the reconstruction of 48 schools: 4 pre-primary,
17 primary and 11 secondary schools distributed throughout the Federal
District, and 4 pre-primary, 8 primary and 4 secondary schools in the five
states most seriously affected by the earthquake (para. 28). It would also
include reinforcing the structures of about 950 schools in the DF in order to
make them safer and better able to withstand future earthquakes. The
Secretariat of Public Education (SEP) through its Directorate of Planning and
Programming (DPP) has planned and designed the reconstruction for completion
in 24 months. The Comite Administrativo del Programa Federal de Construccion
de Escuelas (CAPFCE), as agent for SEP, and DDF would be responsible for
constructing and equipping the schools. The Building Department of the DDF



- 17 -
is responsible for the supervision in terms of conformity to land-use plans,
zoning and revised building code. The structural designs would conform to
the newly approved Federal District Emergency Building Code and would be
reviewed by one of the 400 Government approved structural engineering
consultants.
56.       Health-Care Facilities.  The proposed project would assist the
rehabilitation and reconstruction of health care facilities operated by the
Mexican Social Security Institute (IMSS), while rehabilitation and
reconstruction of facilities operated by the other major supplier of health
care services, the Secretariat of Health (SS), is being assisted by IDB. The
proposed Bank project would provide for the replacement of about 2,000
hospital beds in two sub-components. The first would provide about 1,200
beds in six second level (zonal) hospitals to serve an estimated population
of 1.2 million in the periphery of Metropolitan Mexico, distributed in
strategic locations throughout the Metropolitan service area. Each hospital
would provide ambulatory and hospital services, including gynecology,
obstetrics, pediatrics, general surgery, internal medicine, orthopedics,
trauma, ENT (ear, nose, and throat) and ophthalmology. The second
sub-component would consist of construction of five hospitals in different
regions of the country with about 800 beds. The proposed regional hospitals
would enable the five regions to become fully autonomous in the provision of
all types of health care and would substantially reduce the need to transfer
second and third level patients for treatment in Mexico City. This would
improve the level of health services at lower unit costs. Costs would be
recovered through user and employer contributions in accordance with
established practice.
57.       Municipal Markets and Ancilliary Services.   About 13 municipal
markets and related ancilliary services (paving, street lighting,
etc.) distributed through the damaged zone of the Federal District would be
rehabilitated and partially reconstructed. Consultant structural engineers
using the new code would ptepare the final designs and the Public Works
Directorate of the DDF would implement the works using local contractors. In
accordance with established practices, costs would be recovered through
taxes, rents and fees.
C.  Demolition of Buildings and Debris Removal
58.       The earthquake left more than 1.2 million m2 of destroyed or
damaged buildings in the Central Business District-including many thousands
of dwellings, about 25 government buildings and about 165 private industrial
and commercial buildings. The costs of demolition and debris removal for
about 16,300 dwellings have been included in the proposed project, as well as
the similar costs for the public and private buildings that are a public
menace, in particular where the private owners are unable financially to
undertake the task. Part of these buildings landed within the public right
of ways and had to be removed at public expense. The project would also
finance the procurement of heavy duty demolition equipment and materials;
the equipment and materials would be procured and owned by DDF.



- 18 -
D. Technical Assistance and Institutional Support
59.       This component would, under several sub-components, include techni-
cal assistance and studies to (i) help strengthen the recently established
Technical Coordinating Group; (ii) assist the executing agencies with project
preparation, implementation and processing; and (iii) develop, at the
national level, appropriate damage mitigation measures and improved
seismic-resistant building codes, as well as land use and micro-zoning plans
at the municipal level.
60.       One sub-component would support the Technical Coordinating Group
which has been established under the Secretariat of Finance to advise and
assist in coordinating the overall rehabilitation and reconstruction effort.
Funds would also be provided for consultants services to strengthen the
executing agencies in project preparation, budgeting, programming and
execution, supervision, quality control, accounting and administration.
61.       A second sub-component would provide assistance for housing
reconstruction. Assistance would be provided for institutional strengthening
of SEDUE, the secretariat responsible for policy and coordination in the
housing sector, which would support RHP in developing land use plans,
programming and executing of housing and infrastructure, financial
administration, and construction management.
62.       A third component would provide technical assistance to DDF for
studies to help develop seismic-resistant norms and regulations for the new
building code.
63.       A fourth component would support studies to develop a set of
measures designed to identify earthquake hazard urbar areas and develop
appropriate damage mitigation measures and regulations.
64.       A fifth sub-component would assist a program of t-aining addressed
to the needs of the engineering and architectural professions, construction
supervisors and workers, which is being prepared by the professional
societies under the Council for Science and Technology (CONACYT). This
program would also include training in self-help seismic-resistant construc-
tion. Special consideration would be devoted to the need to improve techni-
cal knowledge of seismic-resistant construction in the interior of the
country.
65.       Finally, an allowance has been made for needs for additional
consulting services and technical assistance likely to arise as the project
progresses. These needs have not yet been determined but will be defined in
consultation with the Bank as the project is implemented.
Project Costs and Financing
66.       The total cost of the project, excluding taxes but including
physical and price contingencies, is estimated at $571 million equivalent,



- 19 -
with a foreign exchange component of $186 million (see Annex IV, Table 2).
Physical contingencies average 11Z. Base costs are estimated as of the end
of December 1985, and price contingencies are based on Bank guidelines and
allow for price escalation as follows: 7.2Z in 1986, 6.8Z in 1987, 6.8% in
1988, and 7.7% in 1989. Overall average price contingencies amount to 8.7% of
total base costs plus the 11% physical contingencies.
67.       The proposed loan of $400 million equivalent would finance 70% of
project cost in order to help ease the counterpart funding constraint which
is particularly serious in this case because the reconstruction burden is by
its nature incremental, and comes on top of an already extremely tight fiscal
situation. The proposed loan would finance all of the estimated foreign
exchange component and the equivalent of about $214 million in local costs.
The balance of local costs would come from budgetary allocations of the
executing agencies, including amounts available from the Government's Recons-
truction Fund (para. 34). The proposed loan would cover about 10% of the
estimated total cost of the earthquake rehabilitation and reconstruction
program, and about 25Z of the total cost of rehabilitation and reconstruction
works during the project period. Total external financial assistance in
connection with the earthquake (including the proposed loan) is estimated at
4O0 of total cost of the program (see para. 42).
The Borrower
68.       The loan would be made to Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios
Publicos, S.N.C., I.B.D. (BANOBRAS), a public development bank and a
financial agent of the Government for public works and services; such works
and services would account for almost 80% of the goods and services to be
financed by the proposed loan, and BANOBRAS has therefore been designated by
the Government as borrower for the proposed loan.   BANOBRAS operates several
trust funds, each corresponding to a specific investment program. BANOBRAS
also makes direct loans to states, municipalities, and other public sector
enterprises and is the borrower for a number of Bank loans in the urban,
water supply and transport sectors.
Project Preparation
69.       Because of the emergency nature of the proposed project, many of
the works are already in progress. Demolition and removal of debris is well
advanced. Ten construction materials depots have distributed tools and
materials for the partial demolition and structural reinforcement of over
1,000 dwellings in low-income neighborhoods. Rehabilitation of less
seriously damaged housing is proceeding with credits from FONHAPO and the
commercial banks. Technical assessments of more seriously damaged buildings
are also proceeding. More than 4,000 structural damage reports have been
completed. These building surveys form the basis for rehabilitation or
demolition of the individual buildings. Where complete reconstruction of
housing structures is required, preparation of plans and designs has
started. Similarly, thorough planning and structural designs have been
started for schools, hospitals, and markets which would be reconstructed
under the proposed project. Most of the housing, schools and hospitals would
be built according to existing standardized plans. An exception to



- 20 -
standardized planning would be the five hospitals to be rehabilitated or
reconstructed in the interior of the country (para. 56); these are not
amenable to standardization and, to that extent, will require more
preparation and entail slower implementation than the hospitals to be built
in Mexico City. However, the executing agency for the health care component,
IMSS, has the managerial and implementing capacity to carry out these works
in an expeditious manner, and arrangements will be made to monitor these
works closely to avoid construction delays. Finally, a number of studies
which would be assisted under the technical assistance component of the
proposed project (e.g., preparation of a comprehensive Reconstruction Plan
including Land Use and Zoning Plans for Central Mexico City, and studies to
help develop seismic-resistant norms and regulations for the new building
code) have already been started.
Project Execution
70.       The project would be executed over a period of about 3-1/2 years
within the framework of the institutional arrangements described above
(paras. 35-37).   A Technical Coordinating Group operating under the
Secretariat of Finance would assist in the coordination and supervision of
project activities. Technical support would be provided to executing
agencies by the Technical Group. The executing agencies would be responsible
for managing their respective components, including the preparation of
detailed work programs, budgets and accounts, and for supervising work
programs and expenditures.
71.       The Bank would review land use and zoning plans in the project area
and would ensure that clear land titles exist before beginning works to be
financed from the proposed loan. In this regard, no difficulties are
expected to result from the recent expropriation of the land which is the
site of a major sub-component of the project, since the expropriation decrees
were passed within the constitutional limits and in accordance with criteria
set forth in the Expropriation Law. Construction in the project area would
be in accordance with the emergency code for the Federal District approved
and enforced as of October 1985. This would avoid serious damage to
buildings if an earthquake with the characteristics of the September 1985
earthquake occurred in the future. This is satisfactory to the Bank at
present. However, the Bank, through the technical assistance component of
the proposed loan, would be cooperating and assisting in the development of a
permanent code for Mexico City and other parts of the cou..cry where there is
an earthquake risk. By December 31, 1986, this permanent code would replace
the emergency code.
72.       The Department of the Federal District (DDF) has a special interest
and an important role in the execution of the proposed project, since most of
the proposed project is located in the Federal District. DDF is organized
into five Directorates: Government, Social Development, Public Works,
Protection, and Legal Coordination.   DDF is a long established, well staffed
ageney with extensive experience in providing municipal services and



- 21 -
implementing projects. It is the institution responsible for the building
and land use regulations, and for the planning, implementation, and
supervision of some of the major public works and schools in the city.
73.       DDF was in charge of the preparation of the emergency seismic-
resistant building code for the Federal District approved in October 1985 and
is now responsible for its enforcement. It is also in charge of the prepara-
tion of the permanent building code, a task scheduled to be completed by
December 1986. DDF is also responsible for the technical assessments of the
damaged buildings on the basis of which the decisions are made concerning the
feasibility for repairing buildings or the need to demolish them. In
addition, it is the executing agency for the demolition and debris removal.
74.       The implementing arrangements for project components and sub-
components are described below.
75.       Housing.  The housing component would be executed as three sub-
components described in para. 79. Funds would be channeled to these sub-
components through two public trust funds - Low Income Housing Fund (FONHAPO)
and Fund for Housing Operations and Bank Discounting (FOVI).
76.      FONHAPO is a public trust fund administered by BANOBRAS that
finances housing schemes for low-income workers whose housing needs are not
met by other programs. FONHAPO's borrowers act as implementing agencies for
sub-projects and are responsible for the allocation of individual housing
units to final beneficiaries. Eligible borrowers include federal public
sector entities, when their schemes and budgets have been approved by the
Federal Government; state and municipal governments and their agencies;
cooperative housing associations; and other legally constituted groups
(including REP) which are implementing programs consistent with the norms of
FONHAPO. The income of the head of household of beneficiaries of FONHAPO
must be no larger than 2.5 times the minimum wage.
77.       FONHAPO is the executing agency for a low-income housing project
financed by a Bank loan (2612-HE) which was approved by the Executive
Directors in August 1985. When that loan was made, it was estimated that
FONHAPO's capital recovery under a typical subloan made in 1985, calculated
at the then prevailing projections of inflation, would be of the order of
70%. In addition, as a condition of effectiveness of Loan 2612-HE, FONHAPO
was required to introduce modifications to its onlending terms which would
slightly improve the expected levels of capital recovery. FONHAPO,
therefore, on January 15, 1986, adopted a revised Statement of Policy,
incorporating improved onlending terms. Most notably, starting interest
rates were increased from a range of 9-12% to a range of 11-21% (adjusted
annually by a factor of 1.1). These revisions to FONHAPO's onlending terms,
which would be applied under the proposed loan, should result in
approximately the same levels of cost recovery as had been estimated last
year, notwithstanding less optimistic projections of inflation.
78.       FOVI is a public trust fund administered by the Bank of Mexico. It
coordinates and supplements the mortgage lending of commercial banks. FOVI



- 22 -
finances five categories of owner-occupied dwellings and one catagory of
rental housing (See Annex VII, Attachment B). The proposed project would
support only the three lower income catagories of owner-occupied housing as
follows: Type 1 housing for beneficiaries where the income of the head of
household is from 2.0 to 4.1 minimum salaries and the maximum dwelling price
is $5,400 to S7,000; Type 2 housing for beneficiaries with head of household
income 3.2 to 5.7 minimum salaries and maximum dwelling price of $8,400 to
$11,000; and Type 3 housirg for beneficiaries with head of household income
4.8 to 7.4 minimum salaries and maximum dwelling price of $9,800 to $12,800.
Subloans for reconstruction and rehabilitation of these types of housing
would be made in accordance with onlending terms established under Regulation
1842, as amended, of the Bank of Mexico . Under the proposed loan, housing
subloans extended by FOVI would provide for at least the minimum levels of
cost recovery required for FONHAPO.
79.       The three housing sub-components would be executed as follows:
(a) Popular Housing Renewal (RHP). The renewal of 4,320 land
parcels (250 ha of expropriated land) of urban blight involving about 42,570
dwelling units--heavily damaged by the earthquake--will be executed by the
Popular Housing Renewal Agency (RHP) (para. 51). Funds for the RHP program
would be channeled through FONHAPO. The technical standards of FONHAPO and
the minimum requirements of designs, layouts and specifications conform to
SEDUE's tested prototypes which are cost efficient and consistent with Bank
experience in low-income housing projects. Local contractors would provide
the structures, mechanical and electrical elements. From the construction
materials depots, the beneficiaries would receive the required materials to
complete their dwellings through supervised self-help labor. RHP with the
assistance of DDF would provide daily supervision. In addition, technical
control would be provided by SEDUE through an in-house construction
management unit which would prepare weekly progress reports using agreed
supervision and monitoring procedures, with special attention to cost and
quality control. The Government would agree to establish and maintain this
unit to supervise and monitor the execution of FONHAPO subprojects to be
carried out by RHP. The receipt of evidence that such unit has been
estalished on terms acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition of
disbursement in respect of FONHAPO subloans made to RHP.   RHP would go out
of existence when the housing rehabilitation and reconstruction program ir.
the expropriated area is completed, and adequate arrangements would be made
for subsequent loan collections and administration.
(b) For the low-income housing damaged by the earthquake, on land
not expropriated, FONHAPO would provide financing and supervision for the
rehabilitation of about 8,000 and reconstruction of about 7,400 dwelling
units. This component was designed to serve the needs of the low-income
private sector workers with incomes not greater than 2.5 times the minimum
salary. FONHAPO is assisting in organizing the beneficiaries into groups of
cooperative and condominium ownership for economical bid packages.
(c) For the low and middle income housing areas (above FONHAPO
income limits) damaged by the earthquake, the Fund for Housing Operations and
Bank Discounting (FOVI) in cooperation with the commercial banks would



- 23 -
provide loans for the rehabilitation of about 6,800 and the provision of
about 5,000 dwelling units. The loans would be limited to Types 1, 2 and 3
housing with a maximum value of $7,000 for Type 1, $11,000 for Type 2, and
$12,800 for Type 3. For reconstruction of dwellings, loans up to 90% of
sales value would be provided on present loan conditions with a maximum term
of 20 years and a starting interest rate of 15%, 19Z, and 25% for Types 1, 2,
and 3, respectively. Terms for rehabilitation loans would be the same,
except that the loan amount could not exceed 50% of the total value of the
house. The monthly payments can not exceed 25% of the household income (see
Annex VII, paras. 12-16). The commercial banks would be responsible for
establishing creditworthiness and supervising the loans. FOVI would be
responsible for ensuring that the loans conformed to the regulations and
achieve the objective.
80.       Community Facilities.  There would be three executing agencies for
this component. First, the Secretariat of Public Education (SEP), acting
through its Directorate of Planning and Programming (DPP), would be the
executing agency for school reconstruction, rehabilitation, and structural
reinforcement. DPP would be responsible for planning, budgeting and
supervision. Construction would be carried out by a special government unit,
Comite Administrador del Programa Federal de Construccion de Escuelas
(CAPFCE), which is responsible for managing the construction of all Federal
schools and for assisting the Federal District and the various states, as
necessary, in their school construction programs, and the Department of the
Federal District (DDF). DDF would also handle reconstruction of the 12
markets and related ancilliary facilities in the Federal District. DDF
operating through its Public Works Directorate would contract the actual
construction work to private contractors and supervise the work with its own
staff.
81.       The executing agency for the health-care component would be the
Social Security Institute (IMSS). IMSS is one of two main providers of
health care itn Mexico, the other being the Secretariat of Health (SS).
SS is responsible for providing health-care to about 45% of the population
who do not have health insurance, and do not have access to private health
services, while IMSS provides care for about 40% of the population who have
health insurance (the balance of 15% of the population has access to other
federally funded services for the poor which are managed by IMSS, other
prepaid plans and private sector services). As previously noted (para. 56),
repair and reconstruction of damage to SS facilities is being assisted by
IDB. The rehabilitation of IMSS facilities would be assisted under the
proposed project.
82.       IMSS was established in 1943 as an autonomous public agency and,
during the last 20 years, has expanded health services by an average 5% per
annum while decentralizing its operations through nine regional offices. In
this process, IMSS has gained extensive experience in design, construction,
and operation of health-care facilities. The immediate responsibility for
implementing the project health-care component would be with IMSS's physical
infrastructure unit, which would follow its standard operating procedures,
which include contracting the actual construction work to private contractors
and supervising the construction with its own resident supervisors and
visiting inspectors.



- 24 -
83.       Demolition  of Buildings and Debris Removal. DDF would also be the
executing agency for this component. As in the case of reconstructing the
markets, DDF, to the extent possible, would contract the actual demolition
and removal works to private contractors and supervise the work with its own
staff.
84.       Technical Assistance and Institutional Support.  The executing
agency for this component would be SHCP, with advice and consultation as
required from the other members of the Technical Coordinating Group. Funding
for studies and technical assistance wo ld be provided through SHCP.
85.       The entire project would be implemented over a period of approxi-
mately three and one-half years. Final commitments of subloans by FONHAPO
and FOVI/commercial banks would be by June 30, 1988. After allowing for
implementation of the sub-projects, the project would be completed by June
30, 1989, and the Closing Date would be December 31, 1989 (see Annex V).
Flow of Funds
86.       BANOBRAS would enter into contractual arrangements with the
Guarantor arranging for the transfer of loan funds to and repayment of the
loan by the Guarantor. BANOBRAS, as Borrower and the financial agent of the
Government, would handle all disbursements under the loan, and would further
enter into the following contractual arrangements: (i) with the Guarantor
and FONHAPO, through BANOBRAS as trustee of FONHAPO, for the transfer of
funds allocated to the low income housing component (including those which
would be onlent to RHP); (ii) with the Guarantor and FOVI, through Banco de
Mexico as trustee of FOVI, for the transfer of funds allocated to the
low/middle income housing component; and (iii) with the Guarantor and IMSS
for the transfer of funds allocated to the health component. No additional
contractual arrangements would be required for the transfer of funds
allocated to reconstruction of municipal markets, demolition and removal of
debris, and school reconstruction and rehabilitation and technical assistance
since implementation would be carried out by the Guarantor. Execution of the
above contractual arrangements would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed loan.
Procurement
87.       All goods and services would be procured in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines. The following table summarizes the procurement procedures
to he applied to the various subprojects.



- 25 -
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS 1/
(in USS millions)
Comparative    Force             Total
Component            ICB   LCB   Quotations    Account   Others   Cost
(a) Housing                138       164           32                334
(98)     (116)         (23)             (237)
(b) Community
facilities      172/  71         49           18                155
(13)  (47)      (35)         (13)              (108)
(c) Demolition        162/            35           10                 61
(13)            (23)          (7)               (43)
(d) Technical asst.
and studier                       1                    14        15
(12)     (12)
'e) Project Adm.                       1                     5         6
33    209      250           60       19       571
(26)  (145)    (174)         (43)     (12)      400
Note:  1/   Cost figures shown in this table include contingencies.  Cost
figures shown in parentheses are the respective amounts financed
by the Bank.
2/   Equipment only.
88.       Because of the emergency nature of the works in a wide variety of
locations, the grouping of small individual works to make them attractive for
ftternational competitive bidding (ICB) has been precluded. Given the
advanced degree of development of the construction industry in Nexico, all
civil works contracts are expected to be won by local contractors. However,
foreign bidders who express interest and comply with Mexican laws would be
eligible to participate in LCB procedures, which have been reviewed by the
Bank and found acceptable.   The largest component of the proposed project is
housing, which is composed of many small civil works contracts. The REP
rehabilitation sub-component of 15,700 dwellings is distributed over 1,500
sites with an average civil works contract per site of less than $20,000.
The RHP reconstruction sub-component of about 26,800 dwellings is distributed
over 2,800 sites with an average civil works contract of less than $58,000.
REP will package these site contracts into about 90 bid packages of about $2
million each. These packages and individual civil works contracts valued at
more than $200,000 would be procured through LCB procedures (individual
contracts would range from $200,000 to $2.5 million). Civil works for
components (a) through (c) in the above table costing less than $250,000



- 26 -
equivalent and not exceeding an aggregate of $250 million would be procured
through local comparative shopping (with a minimum of three quotations).
Civil works valued at less than $25,000 per contract to be financed under
FONHAPO subloans could be executed under force account. For civil works in
respect of school rehabilitation, reconstruction and reinforcement and for
demolition of buildings and debris removal, works could be carried out under
force account without an individual ceiling. The aggregate ceiling for force
account would be $60 million. Procurement of goods and works which would be
financed by FOVI would be done by individual beneficiaries through normal
commercial channels.
89.        Equipment and goods, especially hospital machinery and equipment,
exceeding $3 million per contract would be procured through ICB procedures.
Hospital furniture valued at more than $200,000, but less than $3 million for
any one contract, would be procured through LCB procedures, provided,
however, that the aggregate amount so procured would not exceed $20 million.
Miscellaneous goods and materials costing the equivalent of less than
$200,000 up to an aggregate of $7.5 million for any one component (a) through
(c) may be purchased through local shopping after obtaining a minimum of
three quotations. Consultants would be contracted locally and
internationally in accordance with Bank guidelines. Quarterly updating of
unit costs and materials and equipment will be maintained along with close
on-site supervision which will facilitate timely procurement. FONHAPO and
FOVI for housing, IMSS for health-care, and SEP through CAPFCE and DDF for
schools will have the primary responsibility for reviewing and approving
contracts. For all contracts with an estimated value of $2 million or more,
the Bank will review and approve procurement documents and specifications
prior to bidding, and bid evaluation and award recommendations prior to the
signing of contracts. Other contracts will be subjected to selective post
award review.
Disbursements
90.       Disbursement of the Bank loan at the rate of 83% would be made
against eligible project costs net of taxes for civil works, materials and
equipment for demolition, rehabilitation and reconstruction of community
facilities (health care, schools and markets) and under subloans for housing
rehabilitation and reconstruction. Disbursement in respect of technical
assistance and studies would also be made at the rate of 83% of total
expenditures. Disbursements under individual contracts estimated to cost
,less than the equivalent of $500,000 would be made against statements of
expenditures certified by the respective implementing agency. Documentation
for supporting the statements of expenditures would be retained by the
executing agencies for inspection by Bank supervision missions. All other
disbursements would be fully documented. Retroactive financing of up to
$70 million is recommended to cover eligible expenditures incurred after
September 19, 1985.



- 27 -
91.      In order to help accelerate project implementation and lor.n
disbursements, a special account would be established in BANOBRAS with an
initial deposit of $40 million. BANOBRAS would forward disbursement
applications to the Bank for replenishment of the special account. The
special accounts would be separately audited by BANOBRAS' independent
auditors and the corresponding audit reports would be forwarded to the Bank
not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year.
Accounts, Audit, and Reporting Requirements
92.      BANOBRAS would maintain a separate project account to adequately
reflect project expenditures. This account, together with the accounts of
executing agencies, would be audited annually by independent auditors in
accordance with Mexican laws and audit requirements satisfactory to the
Bank. The audit reports would contain a separate opinion on the use of
statements of expenditures.   Audit reports would be forwarded to the Bank
not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year. BANOBRAS would
provide quarterly reports on progress of implementation in a format
satisfactory to the Bank.
Project Justification and Benefits
93.      Ev assisting in the rehabilitation and reconstruction of damaged or
destroyed physical assets-houses, public office buildings, hospitals,
schools, markets--the project would contribute to the restoration of produc-
tion, employment, income and government operations and would help minimize
the economic and social consequences of the earthquake. The project would
also assist the Government in developing improved seismic-resistant construc-
tion codes. In addition, under the project the operating agencies would gain
valuable experience in planning, management and implementation of reconstruc-
tion activities. This qxperience would also strengthen the country's ability
to cope with future earthquake emergencies. The project would also assist
the Government's decentralization program.
Risks
94.      The proposed project would involve a large number of  reconstruction
activities which would have to be carried out simultaneously. Furthermore,
because of the urgency of the project, the level of preparation of some of
the proposed activities could be insufficient. The risk of delay in project
execution that these factors imply would be reduced by by relying primarily
on existing institutions of proven capacity and providing technical
assistance. Coordination arrangements which have been especially established
to expedite the Government's reconstruction program (e.g., establishment of a
Technical Coordinating Group) would also reduce the risk of delay. The high
priority which the Government attaches to the rehabilitation/reconstruction
effort should reduce the risk of delays in the provision of counterpart
funds.



- 28 -
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
95.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
by Moeen Qureshi
Attachments
March 5, l986



- 29 -
MEXICO: EARTHOUAKE REHABILITATION AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
LIST OF ANNEXES                                     NMUM
Country Data                                          I
Statement of Bank Loans                               II
Supplementary Project Data                            III
Project Cost Estimate                                 IV
Implementation Schedule                              V
Institutional Arrangements                           VI
Housing                                               VII
Health Care                                          viii
Education                                             ix
Technical Assistance                                 X
Emergency Building Code                              xi
Photographic Documentation and Map
showing Mexico City Earthquake Damage             XII



ANEX I
-30-                                                Page L of 6
T AILS  34
marz    caun man atu
totaL        1972.5      1972.5      1972.5(M  IGM  ibTUTS I
ms ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     1 cumma iSLlS M)                            e*  zw
TOA   1_     0t.3                            1 tt-3      19J2.-
WI2.2      910.4       97.s
matm  (*)..                                       ..        ae.              1373.9                   214.3
CKuOUANI 0 OIL mpRvaLNt)          539.0       773.6     1340.0              992.0                    l9l.6
OPmUASIuNOZ3sm  (WORMS)   21073.0    51170.0    71011.0
OgRIO fo9ULhI  (s OorN.)           50.0        59.0       01.7               07.7                     47.1
mENu flU0M
PO9LAUOU Z am 20  (IL!.)                                309.4
1U01    OPMlATU  (MWLL                            199.0
9OUULATIOU UIowUIII 
POn sct am
nl. on.                         1".6         25.9        33.0              46.0                     84.7
miyo. m. SAl. LAWS               37.7        32.4       74.7               91.1                    1".,
rontLxUt   A SuTlOim  (3)
0-1 US                         45.0        40.4        43.4              31.5                     31.3
1-" TS                          51.0        49.9       53.1               57.1                     01.5
03*3 AnAs                         3.3         3.5         3.4               4.2                      7.2
OPULoATu GfVUN 355 (2)
OtAL                              3.0         3.2         2.9               1.4                      1.4
UN                                4*J         4.7         4.1               3.0                      3.7
COK Ma   uxn  cm   cus)            45.4        43.4       34.0               30.9                     23.4
c-OK mCSS m   cm  mo PRn           12.2         9.7        0.9                3.0                      3.9
CUS  _SUIOI         3NM             3.3         3.2         2.2               2.0                      1.5
FAN!LT  LATOC
ACceUS.  LAL (INCS)                ..        25.1      1145.0 lc
USS (I Q1 N     hI Uofml)          ..         ..         39.0 7W           45.3
om m mioim
WU or noo1 no. us CIT
(1909-71-1)                        97.0      10.0       100.0              L09.0                    1ul.1
MM CAPITA SOP. or
CALhxhfSz IV  ZIS   UNI)         134.0      1L4.0       129.0             113.2                    131.5
POTEKM  (CCAM PU OA)             68.0        67.0        77.0              69.4                     92.4
01 laalC  INAL SD POUL          29.0        27.0        23.0 id           34.2                     34.3
1ua3 CACt 1-4) huN 3A1M            10.7         7.3        3.0                4.5                      4.7
LIVE SPCI. AS KmTS CnS)            57.0        61.3       05.4               6 .4                     67.
[SUit MU. amn Cm  TILW)            93.0        74.0       52.0               SV.7                     53.3
ACC   TOW   ,C  CxPOrP)
TOTAL                            23.5        43.0 A      53.0              05.3                     70.2
113RIA                                        6. J       0.                76.3                     39.4
NlAL                              ..         21.0 ii    51.0               44.2                     57.0
Cs 3F POPULATN)
UTL                                ..        37.0 A      3s.0              56.3                     59.4
UB                                *           0.0A       50.1              73.4                     45.9
uaL                               ..          4.0 ia    13.0               25.5                     47.4
POPULATIO  PU PUWBstICS          1630.0      1510.0        ..              1909.7                   1070.4
Fo. 331R m151e  3160             3450.0      1390.0        ..               303.2                    789.5
io. ma maDsrria a
TOAL                             90.0      970.0         ..              302.0                    323.3
URBAN                           570.0 /I  1170.0         ..               422.0                    201.9
iOL                               ..       1370.0        ..              2718.7                   4519.7
wmOOs na NinAL UD                   ..          ..          ..               27.5                     20.0
AVCE  Suz  or mouumua
TOtAL                             5.&         5.7
lIlIAN                            5.7         5.7
RVKAL                             5.2         5.5
UAM    mo. Vf msmuaam
TOTAL                              2.9        2.5
uWS                               2.0         2.2
.URAL                             3.4         3.2
usersO Or DUgLUNS WM5 ElIT.
TOTAL                             ..                       ...9
URS                               W..        *0.7
MbL                  .             ..        27.5



- 31 -                                            ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
T A IA L E34
P4300                  - YtlCUL 4 NOKCATO        = DATA S
l1CD                                 hIUK           S (WIICKUD AV U) /4
HOST                     (NMST RECUIIT  bIAT ) /a
19/b..     19T U    IE               MIOIA INCOM     lCiOE   NCA 
___ ESTgj/. b      LAT. AHKUicA   CAd            Uiwm
ADUSTER  OLUSUT DATtOS
AWUft  7TOAL                      N0.0       104.0       121.0              1U6.7                     111.9
KALE                   82.0       104.0       123.0              108.5                     106.2
FNALIE                 77.0       102.0       119.0              104.4                      97.5
SEONIDAW  TOTAL                   11.0        22.0        54.0               44.2                      57.5
HALE                   14.0        26.0        54.0               42.7                     4b.9
vINAI                   4.0        17.0        49.0                4.9                      50.U
VOCATIONL CZ Of SECONDAM)           23.6        26.7        11.6               13.3                      21.0
PUPF-TEACIR RATED
rADA                              44.0        46.0        37.0               29.9                      25.1
SM3OIDA1                          13.0        14.0        18.0               16.7                      19.1
PASSECllU CASIITIOUSAND POP         12.9        24.1        61.3  .            46.0                      54.2
ADIO USlVUS/TNOUSAND PO             49.0       273.7       291.1              325.3                     170.7
Tv UECcIBIrS/Imi7musD NP             17.5       58.5       109.4              112.4                     149.]
IEUSPAP  ("DALY GEICUL
)zmus) CIUZULIOII
PIR TUOOSAND POPULArION            73.3         ..        1IJ.7               n1.1                      b7.u
CUM  ANNRWA ATTENDAICEICA'IT&        9.8         4.9         3.t t              2.4                       2.7
TOTL LABOR FOCE (THS)            11191.0    14722.0    2219b.0
FDLE (PUCAIT)                     15.2        17.4        20.5               23.6                      36.3
AGECULLU  (PERcZNr)               55.1        45.2        35.b 1             31.4                      4U.8
3W1S101   (P13C00T)               19.5        22.9        25.5 ;             24.3                      23.3
PA=CIPATTON RATE CPEICwt  )
TOTAL                              30.2       28.8        29.6               33.5                      43.1
KALE                              51.1        47.4        46.8               51.3                      55.1
UIZNA                              9.2        10.1        11.9               15.9                      i1.4
ECONOKC  O     CEPE ! RATMO          1.6         1.7         1.6                1.3                       0.9
._ -
P3CW! OF PRIVA2E 1160C143
3ZEIRrD 3!
HIGHEST ST OF UOUSEWLDS            ..
HIGH14T5 20t 0  HOIUSEOLNS        61.1 lb    60.7         S7.7 lh
LOWBST 20S Or  _ 5SU0L0S           3.& 7s      3.3         Z.9 7h.
WEST 40S OF MOIWLS                 9.6 7-      9.9         9.9 7..
ESTAD  A3SOUIM PVUT! INCONE
LCEVL (US$ PER CAtTA)
UU3lt                              ..          ..          ..               2W8.3
RURAL                              ..          ..          ..               185.3
ESTD14CAD   VJTM   OZT   N
LVEL CUS PM CAPITA)
UISAS                              ..         .,         471.0 le           519.3
am"      471.0 7T           359.7
ESTIKATED  P. MUM ASSOUm
P03Ul! 11301 LEVEL (1)
URBAN........
RUA                                ........
MYT AVAILABL
?T APPLICABLIE
N1 0 T e s
Is  Tb. enUP vam r      OC sech _ nd-cator Wre popul.tIod-valghbed artcbmtlc mm.  Covurae of ctantclms
_au  the indcator depeJnd an avail b         tiCy of data adm! let wahLtte.
/b  Unless ocbtwLa. aeted. 'Data for 1040" rgefr to my year bmt... 1959 and 1961; 'Data  otc 1970" beatmm
1969 and 1971; ed data Car 'Mst lecan Ktiate" betwmm  195  cAn  1913.
/c   1979; Id 1977;   . Served Eras _rer supply ed _emua;   t 1962;   . 1980; /b 1963.
Jun. 1NS



ANNEX I
-  32-                                         Page  3 of 6
DII'mo11S OF SOCIAL 1NDICAT0
Nowe Amlie  s detasm ime frome srsee o   lb jdaipd he mm auahaqsmn mnd  n     shj Wmbe  *d Ud y my so te .mmuaeml
CMPese becues of th Imik of amdd i            d d   Nmmpmp oeMb IpwdEtsmic m is aneti dw dua. Tnh doam .eemhmbm. .ur to
dumbod                                                         b k_t i_dd_iai_u
Th  duupii mm Ilcl Ik       mumM pee tlik s a  umwmd (2) a me_y pm  eds smiuht h0  ighs swap _ae th_ the ee_ry
ptmpijd-adsY (rfor -HI* 1uc1r1 Oil Eapem  vatNOw,- -Mid lderdNerth Arem and Middle Ea- is.bta. ee of d oq
gd.ad tmw selt*i) Ia so6rono- pwmp dma the avis1mu    popeiZm imshmd u_b1music Hum  for o& iadcmw ad _ l sy whm 
oiwminmrnsuupo  kemmafor dkg ldhulanSim se msef   e  maom             " -i dupd.the a_mm yo fda_u mmd ims md..,
muion.arbe _ d b rdmfin *     asmuof   mdiujtom_o111Thma. aWm uly m   me_omnn tkevahlue dof audaor ta a _mmm
Ihe twamy mid I mm w.m
AMEA (tho_sd sq.klL)                                           Cr.k *:5 1Zu (p  hwid)-Numbc rof live births in the year
reed_Tol surfae asea comprisig lnd aua and inland watems      per dhund of raid-yr  population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 19U3 data                                      Ciud Dead Uliv (peo r_)- Number of deaths in the year
A_Vdm*aIm c-Esuimat of agricultural area used temporarily or   per thousad o mid-ye  population; 1960. 1970. and 1933 data
permanendy for cops. pAsture. market and kitchen prdens or to  GrAy  'toi  Rae-Avrag number of daughter a woman
lie faoaw. 1960 1970 and 1982 data                             wiU bear in her noral reproductive period if she e
present age-specific ferslity rates usually fve-year avrges eding
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per Capita esimatus am current        in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market pnres. calulated by same convernon method as World      F,ly Pdt-A jeam's. Aama (the_smbd-Annual num-
Both Ataw (198143 bas; 1983 data,                              b  or         of binh-control devices under auspice of ntional
ENERGY CONSUMMON PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                    framily planing prorm.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coa and lignte.      FUO PlnkA-Usm (parcew  _awrud   -e-Tbe pen-
petroleum. natural ps and hydro-. nuclar and geothrmal eec-    tge of manied women ofchildbearing age who are pnraicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capil; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands ae practcing any form of contraception Women
1982 data.                                                    of chld-bearing age a  geneally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries conaceptive uwse is measurd for other age
POPULATION AND VffAL STATISTICS                                groups
Tem Pbgmdme. MAd-Yrw (tinunmdr-As of July 1: 1960.1970.       FOOD AND NUTEION
and 1933 dati.
linde ofFoed APdewdu Per Capit (196-71- IEW-Index of per
Urha  Pbpalre  (p1eaw  fo real)-Ratto of urban to total       capita annual producton of all food commodities. Production
populaton; different destnitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal reed and seed for agruture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. uclude prmary commodite (e.g. sugrcane instead of sugr)
p-,m---de p*crem                                              which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Population   yewar 2000-Tbe projection of population for 2000.  excluded); they comprisc cereals. root crops, pulses oil seeds.
made for each economy sepratdy. Starting with infonnation on  vegetables, fruits. nuts, sugarcane and supr bet livesiock, and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates, mortality rates, and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is basd
intermtional migrtion in the bae year 1980. thes parameters   on national average producer price weights; 196145. 1970, and
were projected at rive-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.            PA Capta SplP ef Cu-i (prcent OfrqfWm.aaz)--4Com put-
Statoary popuklWo-Is one in which age- and sx-specfic mor-    ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
ality rates have not changed over a long period, while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultously emained at repbcemnt klvel   tion. imports less exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net mproduction rate-I). In such a population, the birth rate is  exdude aninal feed, seds for use in agriculture quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationay population  estimated by FAO based on physiolocl needs for nornal activity
size waestu ated on the basis of the projected characteistics of  and health considering environmental temperature body weights,
the population in dte year 2000. and the rate of deline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to eplacement lvel.                                      wasteathouseholdlevel; 191. 1970 and 1982 dta,
Popmladn Momen:wn,-ls the tendency for population growth to    Per Caita Supy of *P,wr (,r    per &d)--Protein content of
continue beyond the tume that replacement-level fertilty has beet  per capita net supply of food per day. Net -upply of food is defined
achieved; that is, cven after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requiremcnts for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is mcasured as  provide for minimum allowances of 6o gnms of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate sationary population to the populaion in  day and 20 grams of anima and pulse protein of which 10 grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace  should be animal protein. These standards are lower than those of
ment level from year i onward, 1985 data.                     75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein    an
_Xi D&s                                                       average for the wodd. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
hr sqkns-Mid-ycar population per square kiometer (100 bec-    Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total ar; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.                Per Cdait P'oad Supply Fiem Aaieliadhlse-Protein supply
Pr sqkn qg*uhwal tled-Computed as above for agricultural      of food derived f.om animals and puls in gams per day; 1961-6S.
land only. 1960, 1970. and 1932 dlta.                          1970 and 1977 data.
PupuAl.e Age Lamcenr. (percawj-Children (0-14 yea). work-     Chid (imfr 14) DBoo  Roet (par tliud)-lNumber ofdeaths of
ing age (I564 ycars). iad mreed (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 yean per thousand child   in the same age
of mid-year populati  1960. 1970. and 1983 data               group in a gven year For most deveopig countre data derived
Ppd c. Grewh Roe    coorkaeJeid--Annual growth rates of       from life tabl; 1960. 1970 and 193 data.
total mid-year populatio for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-13.    HEALfH
P.p.kt   Greuth Rac (P.rcea)' *-Annual growth rates            Lif Epeutoacy a Bah (yjn)--Number of yeas a newborn
of urban popultion for 19SD-60.1960-70. and 1970-83 data.      infant would lve if prevaiing paterns of mortality for all people



- 33                                             ANNEX  I
Page 4 of 6
at the tm of of its brth wr to MY 1h mm tho'gbout in hh      A$-te1rCher RatM - prY. ad semodoy-Total students en.
1960. 1970 od 1963 data.                                     rold in primary   d seconday levb divided by number of
4o-     M      E  (Nu                   of inmwhodie         ta      in tde rreupodn lel.
beforc reaigs one year of ap   th ouad live bith in a Mv
yeaw 196. 17 an  1933 daLP
Ama t S    mw (             VPPfMf. Mitne. -k                hump  Cma (pm' n m    ipa pd G  J-p tsangr cars com-
Nual-Nmbwr of pmople (otaL urbn ad rual) wib tumbi           P    moton mating ls than eight persons; ecludes mbul-
scam to  uf water spply (inds trnd SiEfO  wamer        ana, hesand military vehics.
untrated but uncota_ina_d WSW soch as th  from pIdI                        (typo r  ives
bomble spiip  nd aity wds)  pof d                            rt ir ndio   cast_ to gineal public per thousand of populascio
tive popultons b an urba  as a public fouan or standpo       r  odco nmsu         i n pube per i n       o       ti
loae not wmom than 7*0acmans ofro a0 hou. may hod cmarea     rewstratoI of radio ses was in effeMt data for recet year may
-       whreasonable mp    of ta how. o      n   of         not be comp*rable in_ce most countries abolised liesing.
housbold do not have to qupd a dispropoi      pat of the day  TV lsea"  (Ps idmPfP i)--TV receivers for brodcat
in eching the filys water aIL                                to pIer   pubic per thousant populfibc excludes uniC d TV
Awem to Es . D[ped (pnwew e          I     -gA m .           re,ives in coutris and in yne  whe rtration of TV su was
_d mdt-Number of people (totaL urbn and rul)  rved by        m effec.
exac   dispoal ox peuca    of ther rspetive popatio.         N p   ChAid   (partt dWdA              )-Shows the aver-
Exeta diposa my indude the colecion and disposal  ith or     age cirulaion of daily general intre  newspaper." defined as a
without ttmen  of human ecua ad Wstewatr by water-           peodia p       tion devowed primdy to recording pene  mws.
bone system or the uw  of pit pris and .imibr iaationa       It is considerd to be -daily" if it appea  at lat four times a week.
PWsada   pm Phpzisi-Popubation divided  by nunber of pra     C ;nema AmuE AmAaawe p  Capi. pry Y-Bwaed on ghe
using physi     qualie  from a mdical school auniverity level  number of tickets sold dunng the year. induding admissions to
P  Nm                  p            divided by number of    drive-in cinemas nd mobile units
pracn  mal k d  rkfema  graduate nunes. aitant nurs.
practic  nurs  and unsn auiliaieL                            L        FORCE
_,.   Pm NPW   B11-mm.f          m . i,        p            TOW Lfr Fee (Ah.usaids)-Economically act  pons, in-
(totl, urban and nral) divided by their repectve number of    cdun amed rorcs  and unempoyed but excludng housewv
hobe bds av lable inpub6cmd MvaW generial mod anl sd tudents etc.   veing population of al ags. Definitions in
hosiala eds  abilabl tin peulc    Hospite,   a anpiamd       various maunies are not comprabk 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
pemenldy stfd by at least one pbysician. Estabishments prvy-  Fi-wk (PwM)--FettaIc labor force as peutitage of totl labor
iding pinCiPaly cutOdil cam ame not includ. Rurd hospitals   fo
hower include beath and medicalntes mo permanenldy staffed   Agudeamv (jmrve)-Labor force in famung. forey. hunting
by a physician (but by a medial asistant nure. midwi. etc.)    and fishinga peentage of total lbor fo= 1960. 1970 and 1910
which offer in-patientccomodai  and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facili                                            lmbsr,p (p-  ear)-Labor force in mining. construction, manu-
Adadsin per HMospi  hi-Total number of admisions to or       faculng and dctricity, water nd ps as parcentage of total lbor
dscharge from hospitls divided by the number of beds.        force; 1960. 1970 and 190 data.
- -PWIOAde Nw (PINCEN-40114 ._N&. _,ruik-Participation
HOUSDJG                                                      or activity rates a  computed as tota. malk. and femae labor fore
A=v act of H.umMlN (pmr..' par h.araiuidD-e   1111,    as pernta   of totaL male and female population or all ags
adnr--A household consnsa ofa group of individuas who shar   respectively. IS60 1970. and 98 data. These are based on lLO's
ving qurtes ad their main meals A boarderior ldger may or    piipation rats rdlcting age-sx sMUCture of the populaton. and
May not be included in the household for statica purpos      long time trend. A few estimates are from national soures
A-nge N_Aef P.rs' p- Re-                  A%, R0d Mwed-      Eemid 0epadsc Raro-Ratio of population under 15. and
Avra  number Of persons per room in all urbn and runl        65 and over. to the working age population tthose aged 15-64).
owvupied conventional dwelling  resptively. Dwdei   exclude
mon-permanent stiture and unoccupied parts                   INCOME DISTRRUMON
P--wcaq of DusKi ng Wi Ehen*iiP-4MA ed. mien,  d awe-        Po eeq. of Toed Dispoalsm  lmwa (betA a cash md hind)-
Conventional dwellings witb eectricity in livig quae as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of houshods ranked by total hous-
tap of total urban. and r...l dwllin  respectively.          hold income.
EDUCATION                                                    POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A&ssed Emwm   R p_                                           The folowing esmtes are very approximate measures of povety
Ahnay sduod - toad. mnk -dfema hGr   totaL m,   l and    klevl and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female earollant of all ap at the primry lev as percetgs Or  EaiuisAhsfA   te huwt_ I      Awe    lSs p qr
respective priary shool-ge populons. While _my countris      mid b      u-Absoute  povety income level is that income level
consider priary scbool ae to be 6-11 yeas oths do not The    below which a mnimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differ   in country prce in the ao and duation Of school     non-food requirements is not affordable.
am rected in the rti  gvn For some countes with unwirgal      s        Re,*P,     y Imeaw Leeld (USS per cqiJ-
educati  i    esrol= mnt m3my exaed 1110 p ent smce som        i rid-Rural  ltive poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's stmndard primaryschool  avera  per capia personal inome of the country. Urban kvd is
agr-                                                         derived from the ral kvel with adjusnent for higher cast of
Secaudvy sdood - waod. mae odfmak-.Computed a abv            living in urban ae
sewndary eduation requre at les four yem of approvd pn-      Ew.IwE Ibi.. _.6.' Air  Ab ey Iwew  Lewd (peW-
mmry iunuuco  p do  xweral, vocatonaL or teachr tuan_        ca       _  _  m       Pcent Or population (urban nd rural
i cun  ror pupi usmly of 12 to 17 yean Of W  co      d       who are absolute poor"       
car cours  ar pneyhllyu excludee
Vocaitrmd Eroa'li    (perami of uacofdw)-Vocational instu                pativ  Andysis and Dat Division
dons inchde tonicL industroL or odtr pr - which op                  Economic Anysis and Prjections Departmaent
inepedentl or a deprms of soonday                                                    June 1985



am   lm  IND            111   Iac                            smlp  m i Ia    MO ii1i     m mI ii. Imm  ai" z6Iva                           111117
MytoL Amon                         cla~m SW MIii.  mium mm                     au mmmum                   m         mmmnml-im-m-                                        91       0       a       29
*o                                         0an    ISAiS  uI.n   aims1  21113  511.3   19..mm   32OL               1111.3   243.31    LII    LIS    LI3J    4.111                311.13   mgg.4    mILIII  lab,6
MO61 W lilK EII                              -I.3    -4.3      La1     1.11    -.I2   -4.6  4 -I    -Lu4  -132.131  -ELM                        -        -                      -&1.3       O1   -4.90    -Lu
at                                           9.In  1ian1    mAn   3.Sa   muss6  iWl,   tIR.I   391.5    ma2  ZIt.W                  LiO    LID   -LU3          4.21            34IL1    311.6   361   3IO4A
ifliiS .3E.L Vi                              9.213 mlii        1,1 iL S 5.1     1'      32.33     LSIa   11.14    340.    iLl?7    LII    11.20   -21.713   3033                 9.1    14.3      1.02     7.14
[AM,  SI. NMIm                                6.0     20.14    23.0    xw.     Lue   11.92    DLi!    nol          S3    429         La64    EL        Lis    LII                I.0    12.01   ILSM    alas1
RERME hlUE                                   -9466   -2.3    -Lii    -til        US1  19.10    MIS3   11.21    B."    Z2.25 3                                                   -LU0    -1.21      C 1. 1 ILi
matSN m                                      iu1 31.117015   143.17   M2."8   362.   I39.2?   143.2  124.10  .0 mu.    i&S            i  1. 30LI    -3.16       LI1,            11.2    17.23    T   71.41 74
amhmfe                                       u.nI   3i.4    u4.n    s1.ea   63.2    15.17   32.9m    ILZ    sIa6    313.0    La3    3.30   -1.91    LSoi                        22.20    u.u4   1129    36L2
AMs uML mamas                                11.a     0.14   42.44    46.04    44.43    4La1    a1li    43.0    43.02   56.95        1.10   36.40    -1.71     1.3              311.74   21.29    =718   23.13
NET UK'. mm                                  -1.40   -2.44    -4.61    -1.9"   -11i5  -31.0    tL1 -11.12     -13.5 13.3   -33.3    14.64    36.40   -31.3     1.20             -3.52    -LII1   -tad    -tam1
M13  MT. 11930s                              37.19    3.62    ILl.5    L     1    6     2.16 311.1 h 11,    231.21    11.42   41.95    t.U11   1.30    -5S1   IL%0              ILi      21.36    ILK      ItiI
SHELlSN                                      31.11    17.1.   15.1.   m..51    I36.     ELM0   21.21    11.60    31.0   13.22        2.a      1.01    1.42      4.li             1.52    61.3      LA      LbM
mussm, t slips                              :2.n    tuft   t'.u1    24.36    76.00   21.3   7MI1    77.19    23.3   li.t             1.11    1.4      1.20     4.11             12.95    S.29    Nit6   17.64
SMISt                                         1.4.6   i..,  313.3   260.42   321117   mIul   305.32   501.141302.3   329.29    L7             Lif    -0.31     4.11             ILlS3   11.2.   52.94    13.6
%ME mius NUTa-ns4c's mEwIsu                             cTAm  sim. mmt Imum
IMUl. MAL4                                     332      "It   2.2        261.0   32617    ISM      3t21m    mR       MMii    11NA
NOWi                                      itS     166      2410    a33      317      lif       i1111    713     Mi    3am
21in1633IEOE                                   lii    233    11214   32.1       3113    1341    ?ii1    FM         *1ills92  23
WriltWA [mM    l  mi                                           3314     3125    '36      muil    2516    lii        Mii     569
S-S4KI   N 132                                3125     =322    213332   33A   32         4253     49t      alS      114    33271
LOK. MAL                                     3331    6u9    ifl    WINu    binw   2134    i.ml             tW    nMc    4629
-      W2iBPjSSNIJ                                   222      164    261 11 lilt      36471    3645    3464      2q37    3224   3im3
r KIIAR    1'                              5011   21422    S.W       12E      '25      139      6496    tiL      lll  3i29
4C11=  SITS  I iFMlii                               11       Ff5      "I 91 4  1       53m      7133     M11      to     233.1
-IZI 33203 mlgi.34
WFUi MIS II=E                               41.32    7z   ML.   * 41 3  5.ai    6.201   91.7'  Isacs   :2i.im    mu.s
(33 FM S itU33                               35.32   64,44   311.11   2M31     01.31    tEL       W".   11.33    2.3.4
2mar15                                      16.4.1  ~LIi  33.3  527  P.11   nlr  umis3  as3   4.
W  255                                       319.09   3L30   311.1   321,37  23.32   121.02       L1  I 111.3    23. 135.60
BOO     WE1 IgumuSl                         3IL1     33.4    2L-9    24.33    56.44   EZLK    347.31  256.101
mmmi. a   siam rsM aN t.SPa
COW  OMaUi                                   31.77    ZLU     3.1      19.37    22.42   52.15   24.i    2.3    24.6   4 ill
ml Emn in                                   2ILA     31.76    aiL      19.93    3.37    21.35   2.36    24.6    2.3    31.3
530    gits                                4.11    LI        3.3    -4.02   -L.5    -2.31   -Lii   -LU          -4.3      LO9
Cma  lesS!Of                                 L.331. LI          .64    IL93    33AS    1.30    Lb           .6.    LO       7.64
521T 3312                                   -2L09    -1.3    -7.01   -14.14  -51.61   -3.20    -11.3    -1.64    -kW1   -1.11
mmKss OF -E Psic                                                                                                                                             3313IFMI
mm coumma atf uu.s Mu1
am                                             2'   33.01        It      so       24
mii  as         UIMiI                          -      4.44    31.43    02.3    93.33                                                                           2.7
gm         (I I                                      3.11  Ila2   Za.4   233.23                                                                               22.19
alum  I CONEINCE                          L 2.    21.9   314.39   222.3                                                                            LaI
am S S mm           O                          -      4.2CD   74.9?   m27.U1  242.                                                                             7.92
ML Nowt. as 11-    3411   StIt   29311   3WAS                                                                                                                 32L2
2551                                           -      L125     4.33    7.12    Ln2                                                                             L.2
POLKu  -T   34.4   397.5    29.3  504.61                                                                                                                      31.40
BiSSIS                            -    33.3~~~~~~~~~UL  424.    FU91   2264.2                                                                    3.26
gms                                                   M"IL   3460    211.71   256.2                                                                            1.1
1om311."-539   5442.2  2232.72  Mitm.s
ISM3    1911mu                             its                    13-6                         tio    mSW                                   ins     mi
AMULIM                           ~~~~~4.47    4.910L 212LitS                                            l.a                       2.1      LOi                               32.13   3.6
miii                              2.1~~~~~~~~~~L3    4.91           13.22   21,44                       4.37                     32.6   ILI?                                32.33   21A.95
SilK                                         3.67    1.9                      4M."    11.6                         4445                      9.43    113.5                              IfLj    234.46
131.                             32.34~~~~~~~~~a  31.3             331.1    samO                        LO3                       LI    V."                                 311.3   20LU
pi ns
Vi MX 'Jsmam-.
VIM391011110aKNUMU ear inA iimiSuiM KMor missM us.
Si VW  MS 1VONME 3I163 Mi mMIn     I cNIL25 111m111N Nilid  1.
W mNma gmPamsWM   P sMOI.
nuCMMr. muam
pp.mmm"v g.T
Vu. M&ssn.mam  imt



3 35 -
-m-           _ F        _Iun BMW   _IT    _ E T 2U SII I
IUU HIlLI ST CoT RID                                                                                -M & 5 II
291*    I2        190       293      1902       6    2934  lIIpI    129             19
SEM I IALF   S  PA2nETS
[OUTS IISDI   NIFSI                              3217     6M       2395      4244    2614      21164    30415    261    2712    4679
t rIS  tII     llF IFSI                         32        1 99210  6216       4      202       12131    23       2I0       2737    3
3ESf U-aM                                        -165    -3221     -35    -499*       5942    2633    14124        7196     9315      92
IT F4cnR INKE                                    -419    -2579     -4613    -15     -12163    -5    -121         -621      -1621    -9725
fINEST MIEOTI                                  -20    -102    -5471    -2          -12230   -20197   -2206   -1043    4565    -9162
Cos T as:  m.ua                                 -1244    -Cli    -2S   -12544    -62            324      36         219      39         7
#19TE gl11 I30ESnM                              105      204      1254     119       165       460      pi        43       5so        696
RLIC ND. MD3 LEI  TED  2LMBS, IIET                261      261      4514     925       419      2641       7D    -1135      3570      1940
DIS3   ITS2h                                   B23      4422     NM       23393    10569     661       2431     2177      1122     "6o
REPANENTS                                       567     4160      402 U   37        410       3420     M3       3493      32       7060
IIF  2IIN3                                         --       --    -122       -Il3      221     2300      l22       Yb        575     -971
IIIER CaPITa                                      90      U76       2546     275     -674    -5124    -2M        -2706    -734       -124
[OM2  In 6ES13   I-I1CES                         -102     -248    -2023      -625     43    -4602    -32          30       -2200    -2640
MR fILUmIIE                                       45       --        14       10
uwmt to LmusesT
PUDIIC t0. IE  L.T. tWS
I3II                                          146.l  310.00   62.30  2021.60   539.31 740.3
t1A1                                              ...      ...       ...      ..       ..
022NO3 ULTILATIA                               112.40   121.13 111.0   29.50  106.20   629.10
G_IBIT                                          19.93   25.381    M9.90   671.0   113L.l   23670
EP2IEFS                                         76.30   167.00    3.3   209.30   207.20   331.73
UlNGS 4111 FIlI  L INSTITiWI6S               370.40  3313.66  4194.30  1536   04129.3  529.00
KM PA KUD SENICE
nTELit KT   TTmm     ANS   SISI              3206.3  1141ILA6  571.0m  413.3 54.            16732.70 64.44                                                                  EZTESL   MI
IE0 OF PERM)
2141ST 3  a        ML 3 M                     21640   12L77  314610 47N1.96  64.3  6050 511 .715 3119 a                                                                          IEM  0OISI ED
tE4TS. a MIC IDT                              41.64   7S 73  4009.70  366.20          6.L9   31*3.90  2444.3-
Mi    aI SM      RE tlET I                    1Q92.30  2240  75I6.50    97.14  91L           9954.20  9961.20                                                               0 OEC. 31, 2934
_I M  EIlETM   1I32  W                                                                                                                             MRIC tl I L.T.
PLIC   aT SRICE II                       22.20    23.29    32.4    2.54    35.64    36.4    32.15                                                 L2IIS                            UILLI=S       IT
i1n                                      3111     4.3
N85  TME     F V   .C  SE  inuTNIf     S                                                                                                            fIEt 5FF. SI1E                          4T 2      647
NW INTES?        OCF PWIN EhIS                7.40    10.10    11.4       14.00    14.31    ILl1    21.26                                        012  PRIVTE                              562    EL.
a.a. 333.                                                                                                                                    SDIIIES
*.    B2     A31TYT5 5 1  L                    -        6.93     9.3O  670          6.9      L60      9.20
IS ElIO"
.  T_II.L S3.S                                23.20     9.0      .1* 5     5.74     L3       4.03      4.45
rELIC .L M06 L
L.  Im  MT Sam m  4  I OF                     7.11      7.34     S25       3.3      3.49     3.29      S29
PI 2DT SE"ICES
uis .                                                                                               ___             ___              ___m_nmm   sm ra ui  is
I/ M    FIR       N     FTN      M8 Lm  TO       LIC 0T  C4LT (Ml.
2a IED 4 "4 OR PRECE CF M 21 PER _.
... MT WAW3E SE0sTEtT   T El                 M TNE Tn T4L.
nWI  M_  F IB02,S,    tFF Esmnsmis.
FBt 27,2 19U



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO 1/
A.  Statement of Bank Loans (as of September 30, 1985)
Loan                                                             Amount less    Undis-
No.       Year      Borrower   Purpose                          Cancellations   bursed
59 loans fully disbursed                      3,611.19
1706-5    1979      NAFINSA    Irrigation                             92.00       40.53
1712-5    1980      NAFINSA    Industry                             175.00        22.60
1820-5    1980      NAFINSA    Small/Medium Scale Mining             40.00        14.24
1858-5    1980      NAFINSA    Irrigation                            160.00      132.10
1881-5    1981      NAFINSA    Small/Medium Scale Industry           100.00        0.46
1908      1981      NAFINSA    Irrigation                            23.00         1.70
1913      1981      BANOBRAS   Water Supply                          125.00       59.03
1929      1981      BANOBRAlS   Railways                            150.00        36.45
1945      1981      NAFINSA    Rainfed Agriculture                  264.60        78.81
1964      1981      BANPESCA   Port Development                       5.45         1.51
1990      1981      BANOBRAS   Urban Development II                  164.00      115.49
2042      1982      NAFINSA    Technical Training                     90.00         1.01
2043      1982      NAFINSA    Integra- d Rural Development          175.00       56.42
2100      1982      NAFINSA    Irriga ,on. Rehab II                  65.00        56.26
2142      1982      NAFINSA    Capital Goods Industry                152.30      103.62
2154      1982      NAFINSA    Pollution Control                     25.00        13.99
2191      1983      NAFINSA    San Fernando Agri.                     48.40       31.36
2194      1983      BANOBRAS   Urban Engineering                      9.20         6.11
2262      1983      NAFINSA    Agri. Marketing                       115.00       82.70
2281      1983      RANOBRAS   Third Water Supply                   100.30        81.52
2325      1983      NAFINSA    Third Small/Medium Industry          175.00        98.94
2331      1983      BANCOMEXT  Export Development                   350.00       243.20
2428      1984      BANOBRAS   Highways                             200.00       139.08
2450      1984      BANPESCA   Ports                                  76.30       68.44
2454      1984      NAFINSA    Agricultural Credit                  300.00        25.16
25253/    1985      NAFINSA    Chiapas Rural Roads                    22.00       22.00
2526S/    1985      NAFINSA    Chiapas Agric. Dev.                   90.00        90.00
2546S/    1985      NAFINSA    Small/Med. Scale Industry II          105.00      105.00
2559S/    1985      NAFINSA    Vocational Education                  81.00        81.00
2575T/    1985      BANOBRAS   Railways V                           300.00       300.00
2610S/    1986      NAFINSA    Agricultural Credit                   180.00      180.00
2612T/    1986      BANOBRAS   Low-Income Housing                    150.00      150.00
TOTAL                                           7,719.74
Of which has been renaid to the Bank            1,544.13
Total now outstanding                           6,175.61
Amount sold                  92.34
of which has been repaid    92.34                   0.00
Total now held by Bank 2/                       6,175.61
Tota*l undisbursed                                           2,438.73
1/  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30, and October 31.
2/  Prior to exchange adjustments.
3/  Not yet effective.



- 37 -
ANNEX 11
PaRe 2 of 2
S. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1985)
Fiscal                                                                    USS Million
Year          Obligor                     Type of Business           Loan  Equity  Total
1958/59  Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. /1               Industrial Equipment         0.8    -       0.8
1958     Bristol de Mexico, S.A. /1    A.C. Engine Overhaul            0.5    -       0.5
1961     Acero Solar, S.A. /1            Twist Drills                  0.3    -       0.3
1962/65/ Compania Fundidora Fierro
66/68    y Acero de Monterrey, S.A.  Steel                           2.3   21.4   23.7
1963     Tubos de Acero de Mexico,
S.A. /1                      Steel                         0.9    0.1    1.0
1963     Quimica del Rey, S.A. /1        Sodium Sulphate               0.7    -       0.7
1964/66  Industria del Hierro, S.A. /1 Construction Equipment          -       2.0    2.0
1970     Minera del Norte, S.A. /1       Iron Ore Mining               1.5    -       1.5
1971     Celanese Mexicana, S.A.Il       Textiles                     12.0    -      12.0
1972     Promotora de Papel
Periodico, S.A. de C.V. /1  Pulp and Paper                   /2     /2     /2
1973/79  Cemento Veracruz, S.A.          Cement                       15.9    -      15.9
1974/I1  Cancun Aristos Hotel            Tourism                       1.0    0.3    1.3
1975/78  Mexinox, S.A.                   Steel                        12.0    3.2   15.2
1978/81
/84    Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.         Pulp and Paper               10.7    5.0   15.7
1978     Tereftalatos Mexicanos, S.A.  Petrochemicals                 19.0    -      19.0
1979/84  Cementos Tolteca, S.A. /3       Cement                      16P0O    7.9  175.9
1979/81  Hotel Camino Real Ixtapa,S.A. Tourism                         -       3.1    3.1
1979     Conductores Monterrey, S.A./3 Electrtcal Wire and Cable  18.0    -          18.0
1980     Industrias Resistol, S.A. /3  Particlehoard                  25.0    -      25.0
1980     Vidrio Plano de Mexico
S.A. /3                      Flat Glass                  114.9    -    114.9
1980     Minera Real de Angeles,
S.A. de C.V. /3              Mining                      110.0    --   110.0
1981     Celulosiros Centauro, S.A./3  Pulp and Paper                 59.5    -      59.5
1981     Corporac.on Agroindustrial,
S.A.  /3                     Agri-Business                11.3    3.0   14.3
1984     Metalsa, S.A.                   Motor Vehicles
and Accessories            3.0    1.4    4.4
1984     Capital Goods Facility          Industrial Equipment        100.0    -    100.0
1985     Proteison                       Cotton Seed Flour             2.0    0.8    2.8
1985     Primex /3                                                    16.4    -      16.4
Total Gross Commitments                                    705.7   48.2  753.9
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment,
and Sales                                                  550.7   22.1  572.8
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                          155.0   26.1  181.1
-                -
Total TUndisbursed (Including participants)                150.4    6.5  156.9
/1    lnvestments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold, redeemed or repaid.
12    USS25,000.
1!    Gross commitment lncluding amounts 3old to participants.



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare project:    Three months
(b)   Agencies which prepared project:  Secretariat of Finance,
Secretariat of Planning and
Programming, BANOBRAS,
Secretariat of Housing and
Urban Development, Secretariat of
Public Education, Social Security
Institute (IMSS), and DDF
(c)   Initial request for Bank
Financing:                        September 19, 1985
(d)   Departure of Reconnaissance
mission:                          September 30, 1985
(e)   Departure of Appraisal Mission:   November, 4, 1985
(f)   Completion of Negotiations:        March 2, 1986
(g)   Planned date of effectiveness:    April 1986
Section II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III. Special Conditions
Assurances that:
(a)   The Government would, not later than December 31, 1986, put into effect
an improved seismic-resistant building code (para. 71).
(b)   FONHAPO would agree to achieve with respect to reconstruction subloans
under the proposed project, the same levels of capital recovery as
required under the Low Income Housing Project (loan 2612-ME). FOVI
would agree that capital recovery for its reconstruction subloans under
the proposed project, calculated in a manner satisfactory to the Bank,
would be no less than that required for FONHAPO's subloans (para. 77
and 78).
(c)   BANOBRAS would enter into contractual arrangements with the Guarantor
arranging for the transfer of loan funds to and repayment of the loan
by the Guarantor, and the transfer of funds to the executing agencies
(para. 86).



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d)   The Government would establish and maintain in SEDUE, a unit adequately
staffed to supervise and monitor the execution of FONHAPO subprojects
to be carried out by RHP. The receipt of evidence that such unit has
been established on terms acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition
of disbursement in respect of FONHAPO subloans made to REP (para. 79).
March 2, 1986.



l*CT: FiMWi        En.rArIe4Lc me uRr      I0 PRIT
sw tWY a& USID4AIE  RY mI6~1  fl
(18165 'idRua)
IflinM                                                 Totay   Z of
Civil lu2r   a*               fer- P9e   thulcq    l .9r    Pril                Ruh
C1oIaWIt                                  Lam       Wb*a Pquipmwit Total  hm.  Visimn  Ot            Cmt.  TCtAl   Cwt.   Totul  Project  TOt
_.                                                                                                                                     333.56    5.4
1.1 RIAND1TICIN                                  74.75    -       74.75  4.49   5.98   R5,22    R.52   93,74   6.12  102.86
(i) Pqu,ar Plsing Rmnl              (20.10)2,1  20.82    -      2n.    1.25   I .66   23.73    2.37   2h.10   2.26   2R.36
(Hi) 2a,-l1    - RNA  d/              -         26.42    -       26.42   1.59   2.11   30.12    3.01   33.13   2.87   364M
(III) IUJ 1ype I - RNUMR)              -         27,51    -       27,51   1.65   2.21    31.37    3.14   34.51   2.99   37.50
1,2 T 18a1VM%  N                                177.M5    -      170.05  In0.   13.62  193,87   19.39  213.26  IR.44  232.70
() Poplar Rofing PRml.             (37.A4)b/ 214.49    -       224.49  6.87   9.16  13n.52   13.5   243,57   2,40  255.95
(Ii)  7o    m  - R3W                  -         29.R     -       29.8   I.80   2,19   34.CR    3.42   37,49   3.26   40.75
(1ii) an Type I                        -         25.68    -       25.68   1.53   2.06   29,27    2.93   32.20    2.78   34.98
2. ,MN4    FACIrz1                                                                                                                    155.62  77.2
2.1 WIULDI CM                           -        51.10  23.,R     74.9R   4.50   6.M    85.48   22.82   9R.30   R.5n  215.80
(I)MetropolitanAreaIWittals          -         24.h2   12.5n    36.12  2,17   2.89   41.18    6.18   47.36   4.09   51.45
(it) Ral Hampitaln                   -         26.48  22.38    33.P6  2.13   3.11   44.10    6.64   50.94    4.42   55.35
2.1 KIJ Nl                             -         26.49    1.46    29.95   1,79   2.4)   34,.4    3,42   37.56   3.25   40.81
(I) ROO.twmtiai                      -         I20.16   0.51    in7   o065   0.87    12,39    2.24    13.63   1,28   14.62
(ii)  infrdat                         -         IR.13   0.95    19.A   2,4    2,53   21,75    2.18   23.93   2.07   2SO)
2.3 1JCIP/L MAWIs - IFm     =c    N    -          5.87    -        5.s7  n,3s   n,47    6.69    0.67    7,35   0.64        .0f)
3.  Um  DD MKIUTICI AND DUS MiAL   -                                                                                                    61.63    10.8
3.1 Dwaliticm                          -         21.21   19A.    39.25   -       3.93   41,18    4.32   47,50   4,1    52.62
3.2 Dbris RNaml                        -          7.62    -        7.62   -      n.76    8.3,   0.84    9.22  o00   m20
4.   TaaLOU. AMRIRWIC UM ) A   AND   S1AEn   m  -     11.42 d/ 0.a0    22.22   -       -      122.22    .22    11.44    2.16   14f0     14.hO    2.h
5.   MCC H1NIH nlSIGN                                ( 3.93)2/ 0.90     4.83  0.29    -       5,02    n.50    5.52   0.48    6.0         6.      1.0
rOTAL RlIC  WOST                                      373.43  46.08   419.51 21.52   33.17  474 20   51.70  525.90  45.50  571.40   571.41)  I2DW
, Costs h1 nm Dewier 31, 19R5 priam wvith exc4w   rote U$1 -  mx 843n.
Ptupztte for gmurct app=lW  - not   helhs In prmclt cmt.
c/ Nat pt of the ew'ylairw dwnrm.
~/Petmiuml uervie  ally.
I ICq ull-tin prlect aWnltratti In the Secretarlat of F7ina, U1RW          , MP1 nd NP. If
1brdh 2, 1986



- 41 -
TA Z
NEW:        b        /dIA          AD   r Ir
Ul I   DR   A
:We w2         111Ff      hil
HSP. Ms        Sim        PRICE    ImDL wcluiQI
of Sam=       02/=T        CM)           Umffllam--
2                1
1. I                                      69.770                           333.56  244.34  74    89.2        26
1.1  1ABILITA=                       (30,500)                         (101.86) (74.06) 73   (27.8)       27
(i) Ppmlar Ho ng Remgl             15,700        40        1,806    28.36    22.69  80       5.67     2
(ii) 1W-Ium  - RIEJPO                8,000        50        4,5       36.0D    7.00  75       9.O0     25
(ili)  I-ype I, II ad m               6,800        60        5,515    37.0    24.3   65    13.13        35
1.2 3C IW ll[                        (39,270)                         (231.70) (170.28) 74   (61.42)    26
(i) Poplar Hsa Rn.Beal             26,870        40        580      155.97   116.98  75    38.99      25
(:1) Iw-Inue - KSIAPD                7,40n        50        5,500    40.75   3056   75    10.19        25
(iil) KWI-'pe I, II and m             5,000        70        6,975    34.98    22.74  65    1224        35
2. CalI          FCT -                                                     155.61    98.24  63    57.37      39
2.1 IEELT2 CMl -   S                  (2,018)                         (106.80)  (64.07) 60   (42.73)    40
(i) Vetropoltan Axea Hospitas       1,180        75       43,600    51.45   3D.87  60    20.8         40
(ii) llEOUa Hospital                   838        95       66,000    55.35    33.2D  60    22.15       40
2.2 EflMCATMQ                           (998)                          (40.81) (28.57)        (12.24)
(i)R xutL                              48                308,540    14.81    10.37  70       4.44     30
(ii)      P                            950                 27,400    26.00    18.20  70       7.80     30
2.3 PfhiAL NaiS  - R I          N         13                '615,380     8.0     5.60  70       2.40     30
3. EJDU    DCn                                                              61.63   24.81  40    35.82       60
3.1 iDUEICOM    b/                     1,760,00khi2         2q.30       51.61    17.81  35    33.80      65
3.2  UITS IIVAL                        1,680,00VH            5.96       10.02    7.00  70       3.02     30
4.  GlIC      ASfAMCE AND                                                   14.60    12.41  85      2.19     15
5. Er/          I                                                           6.0O     6.00 100       -        -
mmEAL JFijC  aw!                                                       571.40  385.80  68   185.60       32
a/  Ctu  I    an Deohier 31, 1985 m l wth e,dgme rate U1 - ted 430.
1/ Tnchufxn   US$2) mifIn of 1s$0iuiel
1hrdi 2, 1986



MFXICO: Earthauulie Rehehilitetton and Reconutruction Project
IlpIOW4ftBtion Sehedule
IINITS
(3) DUI (2)m2      ESTIM4ATE.D
(3) Roop. Red.       COST       1W55                  CY86                    CY87                   CYS8                  CYN9
(4) schools        IIS$ *111    2nd Sea.    let Ses.   2nd Rep.    let Rem.    2nd Sen.   lot Sep.   2nd Sen.          let. Sea.
I, HOUSING
1.3 RE.HABILITATION                                                            3 n                   R 6                     12.5                       4.3
 PoPu l ur HSG-(RHR)             15,700             28.4               4///  / // /       /,//////'5e"',///                                        '/
. Lo-Income PONHAPO                8,nnn             36.0             ///  /////////I///(3/3// """"""'/////'/"  ///7/3
, FOVI-TYPE I                      6i,Ann            37,5                     ////////1//////////////////
1.2 RECONSTRUCTION                                                      E-                          48 3                     59 3                        323    1631
, Popuilar HSOI-(RHP)             26,R70            156,n          :  29 R  /                        ///I///////I/////0//  // ii/    i/////
Low-Income FONHAPO                7,400             40.7             1 //1si   I/Iq/I/ /Il/    //i7 I( I/II                       i
, FOVI-TYPE Is,oo                                    35.0          "  ///i/
2. COMIUNITY FACILITIES                                                           4                    22 6                      is 6        6 3
2.3 HEAILTH CARE
,MIetro Area HORP.                 1,lRO             51,5                 6  111/////   6 "               """'0            "   IIi1 
,Regional Itosp.                    83R             55,3               /////////////   ///////1/1/   //// 
2.2  EDUCATION                                                                 I O                   A                        58 a
Reconstruction                      4R             14,8               4 b II/III iiiiiiiiiii"i'{6;o                             2 0
,Reinioreement                      950             26,n//////////////////////////////
2.3  MARKETS                                                                  2 n                    A 0           20
. Reconstruction                      13              R.O               //  //I////////////////// //////////
3, RUILDING DEMOLITION                                                           150                   36 6
3.1  Desolitinn                        1,760,noo(m2)        51.6             /     /1////////////7/
3.2  Debris Removal                    1 ,6S00O0n(N3)      1I.0             I/i/ IIII/IIIIIIIIIIII
2,0                   6 2                      5            I 0
4, TECHNICAL ASSIST. & RFI. RTUD.                             14.6                 z  I/I/IIIIIII//// II  /III/IIII/               I/
5.  PROJECT AO4INISTpATInN                                    6.0             I//Il //////////////////////  //////////////////  /
TOTAL                              571.4              R2.2                 221.3                     183.0                       68.5    16.1
March 2, 1986
14



- 43 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 4
MEXICO: EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL ORGANIZATION
APPROACH
1.        To the extent possible, the reconstruction project will not require
the establishment of a new set of institutional arrangements; rather, the
structure that will be used is already in existence in Mexico. However,
although the project does not aim at institutional development as such, it is
expected that the active participation of sectoral agencies in the planning and
reconstruction activities, as well as the technical assistance to be provided
under the project, will result in the strengthening of existing institutions.
2.        The overall reconstruction policy will be determined by a National
Reconstruction Committee already established and in function. Project
cobrdination and support to implementing agencies is vested in a Technical
Coordinating Group that operates through the Secretariat of Finance. The
implementation of project components will be conducted by the relevant sectoral
secretariats and agencies.
THE NATIONAL RECONSTRUCTION COMMITTEE
3.        At the global policy level the reconstruction process is guided by a
National Reconstruction Committee set up by the Presidential Decree of October
3, 1985. The Committee was established as a mechanism to channel advice and
inputs concerning reconstruction from a representative group of citizens and
social organizations. The Committee is headed by the President of the Republic
and consists of six subcommittees: (1) Reconstruction of the Metropolitan Area
of Mexico City; (2) Decentralization; (3) Financial Aspects; (4) Social
Assistance; (5) International Assistance; and (6) Civil Defense and Disaster
Prevention.
Reconstruction of the Metropolitan Area of Mexico City
4.        This subcommittee is coordinated by the head of the Department of the
Federal District, DDF. Its objectives are to facilitate the rehabilitation of
public services; provide attention to earthquake victims with special emphasis
on low-income groups; establish priorities in the program for the
reconstruction and rehabilitation of housing; modify construction norms and
standards in order to reduce risk; and promote investments geared to providing
employment.



- 44 -
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 4
Decentralization
5.        This subcommittee is headed by the Secretariat of Planning and
Programming, SPP. Its objectives are to promote the reorganization of public
administration, keeping the State Secretariat in the Capital while
decentralizing resources, functions and offices; facilitate the
decentralization of higher education, industry, commerce and financial
activities, and explore the absorption capacity for decentralization in the
different cities in the country.
Financial Aspects
6.        This subcommittee is headed by the Secretariat of Finance, SHCP.  Its
objectives are to promote and mobilize internal and external resources for
reconstruction; streamline mechanisms for housing finance; develop savings
instruments to mobilize additional reconstruction resources; and define
taxation incentives to facilitate the decentralization process.
Social Assistance
7.        This subcommittee coordinates the areas of health, education,
employment and housing. ResDonsibility for the health sector lies with the
Secretariat of Health and the objectives of this subgroup are the restoration
of basic services and the reorganization of the health delivery system in the
country with a view towards increasing its coverage and facilitating its
decentralization. Responsibility for the education sector is located with the
Secretariat of Education. The objective of this subgroup is to restore the
normalcy in the schools; facilitate adequate functioning of the education
facilities, promote structural reinforcement of existing schools to protect
against future earthquakes, and contemplate the needs posed by the
decentralization process. Responsibility for employment lies with the
Secretariat of Labor. This subgroup has as its objective to reestablish
employment for the affected population and coordinate the decentralization
tasks by defining training needs and support required by the small and medium
sized enterprises. Responsibility for housing lies with the Secretariat of
Urban Development and Ecology, SEDUE. The objective of this subgroup is to
respond to the housing needs of the earthquake victims through rehabilitation
and self-help, giving priority to low-income groups, and provide support to the
housing needs posed by the decentralization process.
International Assistance
8.        This subcommittee is coordinated by the Ministry for External
Affairs. Its objective is to coordinate and ensure the adequate channeling of
external aid.
Civil Defense and Disaster Prevention
9.        This subcommittee is headed by the Secretariat of Interior and has as
its objective to diagnose potential risks from natural disasters in the
country, make recommendations concerning rapid and adequate responses, and
organize a National System of Civil Defense.



- 45 -
ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 4
PROJEC  COORDIAION
10.       Overall coordination of project activities has been vested on
December 10, 1985, in a Technical Coordinating Group. The Coordinating Group
operates under the Secretariat of Finance. The Technical Secretary of the
Coordinating Group is the Director General of Public Credit in the Secretariat
of Finance; the alternate Director is the Director of International Finance
Organizacions in the Secretariat of Finance. The Technical Coordinating Group
is composed of experts in economics, law, urban planning, housing, health,
communications, administration, deconcentration, programming, finance and other
areas required for the implementation of programs and projects.
11.       As required by the technical nature of the problem, representatives
from other agencies will be requested to participate in the group.
12.       The Technical Coordinating Group will:
a) coordinate the different programs and activities included in the
reconstruction effort;
b) assist in defining measures for external funding to complement
internal resources and ensure the compatibility of the
reconstruction program with overall economic policies;
c) coordinate with the Secretariat of Planning and Programming (SPP)
the allocation of local counterpart funding necessary for
external financing;
d) propose to the National Reconstruction Fund the orientation and
supplementing of external resources;
e) advise and support the implementing agencies in the
identification, presentation, and execution of projects;
f) propose measures to facilitate an adequate disposition of
external resources;
g) strengthen the capability of the executing agencies in
procurement and disbursement procedures;
h) coordinate the implementation of programs; and
i) evaluate the works completed in each sector.



-46 -
ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 4
PROJECT EXECUTION
13.       The works will be executed by the respective sector agencies: Popular
Housing Renewal Agency, the Secretariat of Education, IMSS and DDF. These
agencies will be responsible for:
a) designing and managing the respective component;
b) establishing work programs, budgets and accounts; and
c) supervising work programs and expenditures.
14.       The criteria for the selection of works by the sectoral agencies are
the following: (i) confirmation of high priority by the government; (ii)
reconstruction of assets of critical necessity in the initial reconstruction
project; (iii) restoration of key social and economic activities in the areas
affected; (iv) likelihood of efficient implementation and timely disbursement;
and (v) no other financing committed.
15.       The financial intermediary will be the Bank of Public Works,
BANOBRAS.
16.       Additional information on the institutional arrangements in the
housing, health care and education sectors is given in Annexes VII, VIII and
IX.
March 2, 1986



- 47 -
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 7
MEXICO: EARTHOUAKE REHABILITATION AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Housing Sector and Program
1.        The Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology (SEDUE) is
reponsible for determining the overall policy for housing and providing the
institutional coordination of the sector. The Secretariat is headed by a
Secretary and is organized under three Under Secretariats of: (a) Rousing;
(h) Urban Development; and (c) Ecology. The policies dealing with the
reconstruction for housing affected by the earthquake of September 1985,
are determined by the Under Secretariat of Housing.
2.        The Government's statement of policy for housing reconstruction
is based on the following gui.delines:
(i) To focus efforts and resources under the Government's emergency
declaration to assist the population affected by the earthquake;
to cover the needs of families living in housing administered by
the Federal Government as well as other types of projects
including private housing;
(ii) From available resources, the damaged housing in the States of
Mexico, Michoacan, Jalisco, Guerrero and Colima will be
rehabilitated and rebuilt by the respective State Housing
institutions in coordination witb SEDUE;
(iii) Financial resources will be promptly allocated to cover the
urgent needs created by the earthquake;
(iv) Housing Program has heen divided into 2 main categories:
Rehabilitation and Reconstruction;
(v) The government housing agencies will participate directly in the
proposed Rehabilitation and Reconstruction program and will
allocate immediately the available existing housing stock.
FONHAPO, INFONAVIT, FOVI and FOVISSSTE will be empowered to
allocate resources to the families of victims of the earthquake.
(INFONAVIT and FOVISSSTE programs are not part of the Bank
Reconstruction projlect);
(vi) SEDUE will coordinate activities with the recently created
Popular Housing Renewal (RHP) that operates under the Department
of the Federal District (DDF) to solve the housing
needs (in collaboration with the other concerned government
agencies) of the victims of the disaster. REP was created by the
Presidential Decree of October 14, 1985 to deal with the 250
hectare expropriated area in the center of the Federal District.
3.        Rehabilitational Reconstruction Program.  For the two large scale
high-rise housing projects administered by the Federal Government:
(Nonoalco-Tlaltelolco and Benito Juarez), which were seriously damaged,



- 48 -
ANNFX VII
Page 2 of 7
the rehabilitation and reconstruction activities will he developed and
coordinated as follows: (a) SEDUE in conjunction with other institutions
is assessing the damages, preparing technical diagnoses, demolition and
rehabilitation requirements, size of damage payments to the families from
insurance, allocation of new housing units to the victims, allocation of
credits, etc.; (b) DDF is participating in the technical assessment and
diagnoses along with SEDUE, while BANOBRAS assumed the main responsibility
for insurance claims and payments; (c) demolition of buildings in the
Benito Juarez complex has been completed by the DDF. In Nonoalco -
Tlaltelolco complex, 27 buildings will be demolished, this work will be
subject to financing by the CON; (d) FONHAPO has allocated about 10,000
recently completed housing units for Nonoalco-Tlaltelolco victims and
FOVISSSTE has allocated new housing for Renito Juarez victims.   These two
large-scale housing complexes do not form part of the Bank reconstruction
project; they are financed from a separate Government fund.
4.        Rehabilitation and reconstruction of low-income dwellings,
affected by the earthquake (not part of the expropriation (decree) but in
the center of the city would he financed through the normal line of credit
from FONHAPO. In addition, reconstruction of private housing (not part of
the expropriation decree), affected by the earthquake, in the peripheral
neighborhoods: Roma, Cuahtemoc, Narvarte, Del Valle, Doctores, and Obrera
in Mexico City, would he included in a line of credit from FOVI (see Para
12. for details of FOVI). The credits destined for reconstruction works,
will be allocated for proven needs and in accordance with the norms and
standards of the respective financial institutions.
5.        The 250 ha of expropriated land, which comprise the RRP
rehabilitation and reconstruction program in the traditional 'Barrios-
located in central area of the D.F., Tepito, Morelos, Guerrero, Buenos
Aires, and others have been included in the approved RHP program. The
objectives of the Program are to:
(i)   rebuild the blighted areas affected by the earthquake in the
expropriated area of the D.F.;
(ii)  establish a policy of social development based on community
participation that respects the traditional community values and
provides rehabilitated urban infrastructure along with new
housing; and
(iii) control land speculation and promote appropriate land-use
development;
6.        REP as a public, decentralized body is entitled legally to carry
out the following functions:
(a) Promote and execute programs for low-income housing;
(b) acquire land and buildings, subdivide, reform, and build in the
earthquake-affected areas;



- 49 -
ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 7
(c) build the necessary infrastructure;
(d) promote and provide credits that conform to the legal
prerequisites and income of the beneficiaries;
(e) eatablish systems of financial and technical assistance for
self-help and cooperative programs; and
(f) promote community participation in the processing, planning and
financing of construction works.
7.        The RHP agency is governed by a Board of Directors.  The
President of the Board is the head of D.D.F., with the Secretary of SEDUE
as vice-president, and representatives from SPP, Finance, BANORRAS and Bank
of Mexico as members of the Board. SEDUE's Under-Secretary of Housing is
the Technical Secretary. RRP started its operations on October 24, 1985,
and according to its regulations has to complete its tasks within fifteen
months from that date; however, the tasks may take considerably longer -
perhaps 2 1/2 years to complete successfully. The registration alone of
over 40,000 condominium properties (after renovation) is a formidable task.
8.        The execution of the program of Popular Housing renovation
involves:
Ci) Land acquisition. On October 24, 1985, the Expropriation Decree
covered the private property of 4,323 land parcels including
buildings occupied for rental housing. The properties are being
r       transfered by Decree to the D.D.F and are currently administered
by RHP.
(ii)  RRP staff are assessing the social and economical diagnoses from
a sample survey of 2,000 families. Technical studies of planning,
design and engineering are currently underway. The preliminary
plans will be ready by the end of March, 1986.
(iii) Rehabilitation of damaged units and reconstruction of new housing
units, will be designed by RRP's technical staff and
consultants. In addition to the housing needs, many of the
dwellings served as production centers of handicraft for which
space must be provided.
(iv)  Execution of civil works involving structural, plumbing and
electrical elements will be contracted with construction
companies (using LCB), SEDUE and FONRAPO will provide assistance
to RHP.   SEDUE will assist RHP through an in-house construction
management unit during the entire planning, design and
implementation of the project. Financing will be provided
through FONRAPO. The infrastructure and services will be
implemented under 'convenios' between DDF/RHP with BANORRAS. The
DDF will be in charge of demolition, debris removal and approval



- 50 -
ANNEX VII
Page 4 of 7
of all designs and engineering for structural reinforcement.
The FIDEICOMISO of Rousing and Urban Development in the DDF
(FIVIDES) will be responsible for minor repairs and
rehabilltation, and the depot centers of building materials for
individual credits;
(v) REP will function as promoter and social organizer and under the
technical advice of SEDUE and DDF, it will also develop
implementation plans while FONRAPO will prepare the financial
plan;
(vi) final beneficiaries of the Program, after the rehabilitation and
reconstruction, will he constituted into the "condominium" or
horizontal property ownership;
(vii) dwelling units will be allocated through public raffles conducted
by the homeowners condominion association;
(viii) responsibilities for maintenance and repairs of the properties
will be transferred to the homeowners association;
(ix) FONHAPO will administer the mortgage loans, and the DDF will have
an overseeing responsibility until the families/beneficiaries
have completed their mortgage payments;
(x) RHP will disappear legally upon completion of the work program.
The responsibilities of RHP to the "renewal" barrios and
homeowners associations will be transferred to DDF upon
r             completion of the project.
9.        In October, 1985, to begin 'operations the DDF allocated from
its operating budget 2,500 million pesos (US$5.8 million) to RHP. To pay
for the expropriated land of 250 ha, the Minister of Finance has issued
25,000 million pesos (US$58.1 million) in Urban Renewal Bonds (Bonos de
Renovacion Urbana-BORES DF). The BORES bonds carry the guarantee of the
Central Bank of Mexico and the Government of Mexico. This sum is adequate
to cover the fair market values for the land and improvements (demolished
or damaged old buildings) on 4,323 land parcels. In addition, 2,500
million pesos (US$5.8 million) have been allocated from the 1986 Federal
budget, to support this component.
Eligibility Criteria for the RHP Program.
10.       The beneficiaries must fulfill the following prerequisites:
(i) househ.3lders (survivers of the earthquake) who are preferably
non-government workers;
(ii) less than 2.5 minimum salaries (on the regional scale);
(iii) not a land owner in the "barrio" except within the Urban Renewal
Program;



- 51 -
ANNEX VII
Page 5 of 7
(iv)  economic dependents;
(v) guaranteed to use the renovated unit as his duelling;
(vi)  personal roots in the barrio, except in programs of rental
housing;
(vii)  no other financing or credits from other housing organizations.
11.       Low-income familites in dwellings affected by the earthquake, but
not part of the expropriate decree, would be organized into cooperatives or
condominium groups with the assistance of FONHAPO. FONHAPO would ensure
that the final beneficiaries are the pre-earthquake households that
occupied the site. The rehabilitation and reconstruction components
involving 15,400 dwellings are spread throughout the earthquake damage zone
- in the center as well as the peripheral neighborhoods. Construction
contracts would be grouped into hid packages following the norms of
FONHAPO. FONHAPO sub-loans agreements would incorporate onlending term
and procedures established on January 15, 1986 (Para. 77 of President's
Report).
FOVI Rousing Finance System by the Commercial Banking System
12.       The system relies on mandatory Central Bank Regulations by which
Commercial Banks have to allocate a predetermined proportion of their
assets to social housing loans. Were the Banks to fail to respond they
would be required to deposit the equivalent amounts with the Central Bank
at zero interest. The organization in charge of managing the system is a
trust fund within the Central Bank (recently renamed  FPondo de Operaciones
y Financiamiento Bancario de la Vivienda" (FOVI)). FOVI provides additional
financing at favorable terms to top up the Banks' own resources. FOVI is
primarily capitalized by a credit-line from the Central Bank (complimented
by budgetary contribution of the Central Government SHCP) In 1985 the
Banking System (now about 20 Banks) lent NexP 271 hillion (US$1.12 billion)
to which FOVI financing contributed 19%.
Regulatory Provision
13.       The basic principles guiding Banks in their lending are embodied
in Central Bank regulations (Circular 1842 as amended). FOVI's own scope
of activities is embodied in its new trust contract of May 21, 1985. The
following requirements are set for the Banks:
(a)   Five percent of bank assets has to be lent for social housing;
(b)   Terms and conditions of mortgage loans for owner occrtpied as well
as rental housing;
(c)   Design standards and maximum cost per type of housing and per
geographical region; and



- 52 -
, .
ANNEX VII
Page 6 of 7
(d)   Targetting in terms of minimum salary ranges.
14.       The new trust contract for FOVI specifies its capital structure
as well as its basic tasks of:
(a) evaluating, coordinating and supervising the operation of the
system;
(b) providing supplementary (bridge) loans to the banks for owner
occupied as well as rental housing;
(c) sharing the credit risks with the banks by assuming
responsibilities of any loan balance that remains unpaid after 20
years.
15.       FOVI, with a staff of about 100, participated directly with its
financing in the completion of about 25,000 housing units in 1984, a
substantial increase from the level of 9,000 in 1982. For 1985 and 1986
FOVI estimates to complete about 25-30,000 per annum, in effect maintaining
its 1984 performance. The substantial jump in operations occurred from
1983 to 1984 when FOVI loans to Banks tripled in nominal terms (from MexP
10.7 to 32.0 billion) or over 90% in real termm.
Type of Mortgage Credit
16.       The financial authorities recently introduced a new financial
plan to achieve several objectives.  First, the scheme had to be
retargetted to social housing. Second, mortgages had to be affordable
initially and throughout the repayment period.  Third, any adjustment
mechanism had to avoid setting a precedent for financial sector wide
indexing. Fourth, ultimately lending rates had to *pproach market rates.
Consequently, after extensive consultations with the commercial banks a new
scheme was introduced in 1984 with the following features.
(a) Housing programs are targetted to reach the range from 2 to 10.0
minimum salaries;
(b) Affordability is guaranteed by requiring a maximum 25% of the
borrowers' income dedicated to the monthly payment;
(c) The monthly payment (including interest and principal) is fixed
initially as the urime obligation and is adjusted annually in
terms of 70% of the percentage change in the minimum salary in
the Federal District;
(d) Initial interest rates range from 15-35% and are applied to the
outstanding balance of the loan. Interest can be capitalized up
to 70% of the initial loan amount. Interest rates are also
subject to annual adjustment in terms of 15% of the annual
percentage change in the minimum salary. The ceiling interest
rate is however the CPP (Costo Porcentual Promedio de Captacion -
Average Cost of Funds). It is important to note that if



- 53 -
ANNEX VII
Page 7 of 7
borrowers pay regularly the monthly payment and do not prepay, no
matter how much additional interest accrues as a result of tnie
above adjustments, no additional payment obligation is incurred.
Any outstanding balances of principal or interest due to the
banks after 20 years will he paid by FOVI (see also Attachment
B).
March 2, 1986



AN1 VIT
- 54 -                                         AttschueM  A
aMD: EAbDUWR                     AND  My            PROFCr
I/iICr?ML RAWNS -RI35    FJWI  SY.1
Allocstm  mu Sources of Fbrzd
AIML                     ES-EM;E - -  - -P E
1984                      1985                        1986
Max.Bifl.      X          Ym.Pdll.         %           M.Pdl.          2
A. AIlocatio  of FPxs                     174         100            271 a/       100            421         10(
of   br- F(     I                      32          18             51 h         19      U S                19
- PA*z  Syataem           142          892           220           81            341          81
B. Sorce ofF sxIB                         174         100            271          100           421          im
of wdch frmn:
(1) FMI-                               32          18             51          19             80           19
centralRark La"s                 31          17             41           15             66          16
Federal  dget/un Resources        1           1             10            4             14           3
(2) Raldcng Systen
Remuar Rescrr                   142         .32            22D           81            341          81
Arnil Grawth Rates                      135C                        56%                        55Z
a/ Equivalent to about UMSI.X billion.
1  Eqivtalvet to about USS 190 udfim.
Mardh 2, 1986



- 55 -
AMNEX VII
Attachment B
aD: UmW  1inAnm  Am SawDmx   rM
Ra nN M  - a                    w
Fey low                                                          Reetdatc
IOavr OCo%iW                              pletlcl
Slter Low T :                                     TME           TYPE       TYPE            E TIPE                   TYPE
1            2           3             4            5           __
(I) Eltble for FOI Fincll                         Yes           Yen         Yes           No            No          Yen
(2) ELU4ble R1w    D (TIm)                      2.0 -4.1     3.2 - 5.7   4.8 - 7.4    63- 10.0    7.2 - 11.5       3.2-5.7
(3) Mdutm Uldt Sale Prim tCOS0O)                5.4 - 7.0    8.4-11.0   9.8 - 12.8   11.2-14.6   13.9 - 17.8       R.411.0
(4) 1      toVYlne  tio(C)                           90           90           90           80           70         70
(5)  l    h.inLan Ain  (1USOC0)                 4.8 - 6.2    7.6 - 10.0   7.8 - 10.2    9.0 - 11.6    q.7 - 12.5     7.6
(6) Dimtet Pate
n'diA (Z pa.)                                 15            19          25            30           35         14
Yearly Mditstmt                                           15% of Paecugm Cwa of  FD                            -
Md    lizaezeet                                                        aYP                                   CPE72
RW%Nnchg of itemea                                       Up to 7GZ of nrlscrl Low Am                          u.s.
(7) ibtbly Pqmt (labereat ad Amrtzatt)
Rids                                                            25% of   P oehold KW
Ywly AdMjtant                       7CE of P emn QOwe of PM                                        -.e.
t    ND. of )}tliy Paymst                                               2b0                                  ISD
(8) Upvfrt LoFee CZ)                                 2             3           4             5            5          3
(9) MPdmm n mea Fee (% p.s)                                                  0.75                                   na.
(10) Late Psywet -hrp                                            Additionu 1W20 of Pelevt RItate                     .a.
(11) Co0latez                                                              m       Qm n
!d  2, 1996



- 56 -
AN vri
=e ~c
MIEO: EARMlUAKE  _RNMUMICK AND irAmiwcIm PN3E=
FWt
Shelter Tlnits Fir1me
ACt:                        ESrD43         PlIKlEC=
e iR2          1983           1984           1985            1986
(1) Units urdler
coxmt nucion
at begirirdg
of year                30,000         48,000         67,000)        58,000          56,000
(2) Undts idtiated
durixr year           2V,000          32,000         16,000         2R,000          20,00t
(3) Ulits ampletei
during year             9,000         13,000         25,000         30,000          25,000
(4) Units urier
cxnstrutxticn
at eare                48,0)00        6767.o         58,000         56,00           51,000
March 2, 1986



, 7
ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of5
MEXICO : EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Health Care Program
Background
1.        The earthquake that hit Mexico in September of last year produced
extensive damage to public health facilities in Mexico City.  More than
3,000 SS hospital beds were affected. Of IMSS's 4,756 hospital beds 2,600
beds in IMSS's Centro Medico Nacional (CMN) in Cuauhtemoc or slightly more
than one half of IMSS's hospital bed capacity in the Metropolitan area had
to be evacuated and will be demolished. Other facilities wili have to be
rehabilitated or entirely rebuilt. SS has obtained financing for its
reconstruction needs from the Interamerican Development Bank. INSS has
requested similar financial assistance from the World Bank.
Reconstruction Plan
2.        IISS's 1985-1990 originally planned regular investments amounted
to US$523 million equivaleLt. Additional investments to replace capacity
lost to the earthquake amount to US$182 million equivalent. The total
investment requirements amount to US$705 million equivalent. IMSS still
has not identified the sources of finance for its planned regular
investments. With regard to the CNN, INSS wants to replace the 2,600 beds
that were lost to the earthquake by: Ca) rebuilding on its present site a
smaller 600-bed CMN exclusively dedicated to the most sophistieated
tertiary health care services; (b) transferring 1,180 beds to six secondary
level hospitals to be built in the periphery of the Metropolitan area; and
Cc) transferring a further 838 beds to five secondary/tertiary level
hospitals to be built in the interior of the country. INSS will rebuild
the CNN with its own resources. The proposed health care sub-project would
consist of the two remaining building components.
Objectives
3.        The proposed investments would have three main objectives:  (a)
rapidly replacing lost hospital bed capacity which is urgently needed and
for which there is no alternative financing available; (b) allocating
tertiary and secondary hospital care to separate facilities to increase
cost effectiveness; and (c) transferring hospital services closer to the
target population to increase access and reduce costs.
4.        The first objective is the most important in the short term.  The
CNN services were working at between 80% and 100% capacity before the
earthquake. Since other IMSS, SS and private hospitals in the metropolitan
area were also working at more than 80% capacity and suffered similar
capacity losses, they will not be able to absorb more than a small
proportion of displaced IMSS patients. The previously existing capacity at
the CDN must, therefore, be quickly restored.
5.        The second objective is important in the medium term.  The CDM
was built and equipped to provide the most sophisticated tertiary level



*                                           - 58-
ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 5
hospital services. However, about 40% of the volume of demand was of a
less sophisticated nature, requiring lower intensity of care. General
(second level) hospitels could meet this demand at a lower unit cost per
intervention.  IDSS had prior plans to bring about a restructuring of
services in line with the demand profile, but had been hindered in these
efforts by lack of funds and by the strong resistance of its staff, which
preferred to work in high4technology centers. The destruction of the CM
by :he earthquake provides the opportunity to carry out long needed reform.
6.        The third objectite of the proposed plan is long term in nature,
and would help IMSS's ongoing decentralization efforts. About 40% of IMSS
hospital beds are in the city center, and are more than two hours away for
7 of the 10 million IMSS beneficiaries who live in Metropolitan area. Long
distences increase the costs of transportation and of time lost for
beneficiaries, makes scheduling of hospital visits and hospitalization more
difficult and delays service response in emergency cases. The situation is
worsening because most new beneficiaries live in the periphery of the
metropolitan area at progressively longer distances from the center, or in
the interior of the country, which requires the transfer of patients over
long distances. Decentralization of hospital facilities is a major long
term goal to improve access and efficiency which could be served under the
reconstruction project.
Proposed Investments and Estimated Costs
7.        There are two proposed groups of investments.  The first would be
the construction and equipping of six "second' level (zonal) hospitals to
serve an estimated population of 1.2 million in the periphery of
Metropolitan Mexico. Five 164-bed, and one 360-bed, hospitals would
provide the following ambulatory and hospital services; gyneco-obstetrics,
pediatrics, general surgery, internal medicine, orthopedics, trauma, ENT
(ear, nose and throat) and ophthalmology. The required one bed per 1,000
population was estimated on the basis of IKSS experience and takes into
account projected limited resources. The technical and operational
parameters for this type of hospital are in the project file, and the plans
and specifications are in the working files. Plans and specifications are
in line with the main ISS goal of maximizing the use of paraprofessional
staff, who are the most expensive recurrent input.
8.        Building and equipment cost estimates, net of taxes and land
costs, are based on 75 square meters per bed; and on December, 1985
physicaL plant costs of US$292 per square meter and equipment costs
averaging 42% of physical works, for a total cost of about US$415 per
square meter or US$31,100 per bed. These estimates were based on regional
and local cost analyses for the whole country, cross referenced with
detailed construction estimates for the support areas of a 120-bed hospital
and compared with ISS estimates for three different types of hospital
facilities. Estimates of unit costs were updated based on IF.SS analyses of
past and expected price escalation in building materials and equipment. On
these bases, the average total cost per 164-bed hospital would be US$5.1



-59- 
ANNEX VIII
Page 3 of 5
million, and the cost of the 360-bed hospital vould be USS11.2 million, for
a grand total cost in this category of US$44.8 million including price
contingencies for the specific inputs.
9.        The second group of investments would consist of the
construction, remodelling and upgrading of five secondary-tertiary level
regional hospitals of different sizes totalling an estimated 838 beds in
the cities of the Ciudad Obregon, Veracruz, Leon, Puebla and Merida. The
proposed hospitals would enable the five health regions to become fully
autonomous in the provision of all types of health care and would
substantially reduce the need to transfer third level patients for
treatment in Mexico Cit*. Bed costs are estimated on the basis of 95
square meters per bed. The average constructon cost was estimated at
US$292 per sq. meter and the average cost per bed at US$27,740. Adding
equipment costs estimated at 65% of the cost of civil works; and adjusting
for the impact on unit prices originating in regional price differentials
and soft overall demand for construction materials in the interior of the
country would result in total costs per bed of USS45,770. On these bases,
the total cost of these investments would be US$48 million.
10.       The estimated costs by year are given in Attachment A. Project
costs per bed are well below international standards for the proposed types
of facilities. Projected savings vould be made because IMSS would be the
general contractor (which would save an estimated 15% to 20% of costs),
would make use of its preeminent positin in the building sector to contract
work at preferential rates, and would practice its customary strict cost
controls. The sub-project's base cost of US$93 million was increased by
f5% to cover physical contingencies (mainly related to the hospitals in the
interior, see below), for a total estimated sub-project cost of USS106.8
million.
Bank Participation
11.       About US$43 million or 40% of estimated component costs would be
in foreign exchange and the balance of US$64 million would represent local
costs. The Bank would finance US$75 million or 70% of total construction
and equipment costs, which would cover all foreign exchange needs and about
one half of local costs.
Procurement
12.       Roughly 75% of the investment expenditures would be made for
civil works and 25% for the purchase of machinery, equipment and
furniture. Procuredent would be made on the same bases as for the proposed
reconstruction project as a whole, which are similar to IESS's normal
procurement procedures. The construction industry in Mexico is well
developed and would be capable of building the proposed hospitals. Civil
works would be carried out by private builders following LCB procedures
which would not exclude foreign contractors who follow Mexican law. ICB
procedures would be followed for the purchase of machinery and equipment.
Purniture would be purchased under LCB procedures. IKSS has a long



- 60 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 4 of 5
tradition of contracting and supervising the construction of health care
facilities, and doing so efficiently. Its long experience with private
builders, the regular updating of suppliers lists, the quarterly updating
of unit costs of materials and equipment for all regions of Mexico, and
close on-site supervision would facilitate timely procurement.
Implementation
13.       IMSS's physical infrastructure unit would be fully responsible
for implementing of the health care sub-project. The key to successful
implementation would be I3SS's well proven capability for building
hospitals efficiently and in a timely manner. Plans and specifications for
the proposed works are the most adequate for the purposes intended. The
.proposed investments would be made over a two-and-a-half year period
beginning in April, 1986. About US$48 million would be spent in the first
year of implementation, USS42 million in the following twelve months and
US$2.5 million in the last six months of implementation. Important factors
that will facilitate timely implementation are that all construction sites
have been purchased, soil and other tests are being made on seven of the
eleven construction sites and I3SS's construction staff are already being
allocated to the areas.
Beneficiaries
14.       All INSS's patients will benefit from the proposed investments.
The project will have a special impact on the Mexican poor, both because
13SS covers 40% of the population, and because 80% of IMSS's beneficiaries
have incomes which are less than twice the minimum salary. Access to
hospital beds and to outpatient clinics will be increased nationwide. This
is particularly important in the case of emergency services, which are
among the highest priorities and are available both to the insured and the
non-insured.
15.      ISS will also benefit from the proposed investments through a
more rational distribution and use of secondary and tertiary levels of
care, which should reduce unit costs. IMSS will also profit from the
lessons learned from the earthquake. The proposed facilities are smaller,
will be located in areas of less risk of future earthquake damage and their
structures will be reinforced to better withstand future earth tremors.
Risks
16.       The risks would be reasonable for an emergency operation of this
kind. The most Important element in reducing risks is the I3SS itself.
15S's organization, management and past performance are of high quality
and eliminate the need for any institutional changes to carry out the
component. ISS's long term program-ing of capacity expansion would
facilitate the proposed investments and bring them in line with medium and
long term needs of the agezcy. The detailed construction proposals are an
excellent basis for implementation. The volume of proposed works is
similar to past I3SS construction levels and should present no special
problems.



-61--
ANNEX VIII
Page 5 of 5
17.       The only outstanding risk originates in the diverse nature and
complexity of the proposed construction, rehabilitation, remodelling and
upgrading of hospitals in the interior of the country, which are not
amenable to standardization and, to that extent, will require more
preparatibn, and entail slower implementation than the second level
facilities planned for the Metro periphery. The proposed works are the
most cost-efficient, because they vould make maximum use of existing
infrastructure, but their execution will require close monitoring to avoid
construction delays.
t
March 2, 1986



-62-
- vm
MEXICO: EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION AND RECONSTRUCTION  PROJECT
HE&E CAtE
(ln US$)
1986 (1 !S at MP 431)    1987 (I USS at t1P 535)   1988 (1  S at 4P 608)  MML
(6) H  's                  USS20,12D,00           13,804,000                               33,924,000
(5) cm's                  USS 6,254,000            27,804,000            2,458,00D          36,516,000
iurAL CIVIL WC!;           USS26,374,000           41,608,00D            2,458,00D          70,440,000
(6) 1  's                  US$10,849,000                                                    10,849,000
(5) cm's                   US$11,618,000                                                    11,618,000
MiL Hp.1m'r                US$22.467,00,                                                    22,467,000
IDrL C. w. & M.            US$48,841,538           41,608,155            2,457.776          92.907,460
+ 5ysic   t. -            13.936,12
T1S$    106,843,580
March 2, 1986



- 63 -
ANNEX IX
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Education Sector
Sector Damage and Issues
1.        The education sector suffered complete or partial destruction of
54 public schools for which reconstruction costs are estimated to total
about USS15.7 million. Additionally, at least 1,935 schools plus the
National Politechnic Institute received varying degrees of reparable damage
for which repair cost estimates total US$49.2 million. This catastrophe
has made the Government keenly aware of the need to provide as soon as
possible additional structural reinforcement for 25,000 existing schools in
earthquake-prone areas to protect buildings and student lives from future
tremors of this nature. This reinforcement program is estimated to cost
US$43.4 million.
2.        Initially, some 680,000 students in the Federal District alone
were displaced from schools which were damaged or destroyed by the
earthquake. Most of the damaged schools are continuing to operate by
combining two or more classes of students into single classrooms which are
considered to be safe. As most schools were already overcrowded, this more
than doubles the normal classroom capacity in many cases and places a heavy
burden and intense stress on both teachers and students. Some of the
damaged schools have been able to use facilities of nearby private schools
on a part-time basis while others have been provided with temporary
classrooms of various types, including discarded metro-buses.
Approximately 66,000 students were still out of school as of mid-November
and will be able to return to the education system only gradually as their
schools begin to be rebuilt.
Education Component
3.        The project would include the reconstruction of 48 schools:  4
pre-primary, 17 primary and 11 secondary schools distributed throughout the
Federal District and 4 pre-primary, 8 primary and 4 secondary schools
distributed throughout the affected states. The estimated costs including
contingencies is USS14.8 million. In addition 950 schools - primary and
secondary in the Federal District will be structurally reinforced for an
estimated cost of USS26.0 million including contingencies. The structural
designs would conform to the newly approved D.F. Emergency Building Code
and would be reviewed by one of the 400 Government approved structural
engineering consultants. In addition, the reconstruction costs of one
secondary and 5 primary schools would be financed by private donations.
The National Reconstruction Fund and an IDB emergency loan will cover part
of the repairs to 1,935 damaged school buildings not financed by this
project.



- 64 -
ANNEX IX
Page 2 of 2
4.        The Secretariat for Public Education (SEP), acting through its
Directorate of Planning and Programming (DPP), will be the executing
agency. The DPP will have overall responsibility for planning, budgeting,
coordinating, and reporting on reconstruction activities for both Federal
and State schools under the project. Actual impelementation will be
carried out by the Comite Administrador del Programs Federal de
Construccion de Escuelas (CAPFCF.) which is responsible for construction and
equipping all federal schools and for assisting the Federal District and
the various states, as necessary, in their school construction Programs.
5.        The SEP is responsible for all levels of federally-supported
education (pre-school through university) which includes 67% of the
nation's students and accounts for 78% of all education expenditures.
State-supported schools, with 24% of the student population, are
responsible for 15% of all education expenditures, while private schools
with 8% of the students and municipal schools with 1% of the students
account for 6% and 1Z, respectively, of expenditures in the sector.
6.        The DPP, as a department of the Undersecretariat for Educational
Planning, is responsible for planning and programming education sector
investments, for making recommendations on budget allocations, and for
supervising the investment program. Thus, ultimate responsibility for
project control is with the DPP.
Harch 2, 1986



- 65 -
ANNEX IX
Attachment A
EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION COST ESTIMATES
Education Sector
(Millions US$)
Reanired Construction  a/                                 Estimated Cost
A. Total Reconstruction
Federal District
3 Preprimary                                             1.1 d/
9 Primary                                                3.5
3 Secondary                                              3.3 dl
States    (None)
R. Partial Reconstruction
Federal District
1 Preprimary                                             0.1 dl
13 Primary h/                                             2.0 d/
9 Secondary c/                                           3.0 d/
States
4 Preprimary                                             n.2 dl
8 Primary                                                2.0 d/
4 Secondary                                              0.5 d/
15.7
C. Damage Repair
310 Schools (major repair - D.F.)                        15.0
1,313 Schools (minor repair - D.F.)                        19.9
304 Schools (general reDair - States)                     9.1
7 CONALEP Schools                                       1.9
1 National Politechnical Institute                      3.3
Damage Repair Total.        49.2
D. Structural Reinforcement
950 Schools - within the DF  - at USS27,400/school    26.0 d/
9,990 Schools - outside the DF - at USS 1,732/school    17.3
TOTAL EARTHOUAKE RELATF.D COSTS           108.2
a/ Foreign exchange costs for construction are estimated at 30%
h/ Of which 5 schools are heing financed hb Private donation.
c/ Of which 1 school is heing financed by private donation.
d/ Financed in part by the Bank Loan.
March 2, 1986



- 66 -
ANNEX X
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO: EARTHQUAKE REHABILITATION AND RE',ONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Objectives
1.        The objective of the proposed project component for technical
assistance and studies is threefold: (i) to help in setting up an agile and
efficient coordinating technical unit; (ii) to assist the executing agencies
with project preparation, implementation, and processing; and (iii) to develop
a set of measures to improve seismic-resistant building codes and technical
procedures. A preliminary cost for this component has been estimated at US$25
million.
2.        As with the other project components, overall supervision of this
component would be under the Technical Coordinating Group set up under the
Secretariat of Financ.  Funding for studies and technical assistance would be
channeled through SEDL3, DDF, and the Council for Science and Technology
(CONACYT). CONACYT would be in charge of coordinating the efforts to be
undertaken by the College of Engineers, the Autonomous University of Mexico,
UNAM, the Polytechnic Institute and other relevant institutions.
Support for the Technical Unit
3.        About US$1.0 million would be used to support the Technical
Coordinating Group that will operate under the Secretariat of Finance and to
contract consultants to strengthen the executing agencies concerning project
preparation, budgeting, programming and execution, supervision, quality
control, accounting and administration. The Technical Group will consist of .
staff of about 12 professionals. (The composition of the Technical
Coordinating Group is given in Annex VI, para. 10).
Technical Assistance for Housing Reconstruction
4.        Overall, the project would not require the establishment of a new set
of institutional arrangements. However, institutional strengthening would be
required by SEDUE. It is eztimated that US$1.0 million would be utilized for
this purpose. In the case of low-income housing destroyed in the central area,
a new organization is being established, Popular Housing Renewal (RHP), to
operate under the Department of the Federal District. Arrangements to provide
support to RHP concerning its implementing capacity are being made. Thus, help
would be provided to strengthen this agency on aspects related to building
plans, specifications, site development plans, construction documents,
programming and execution of housing and infrastructure, and financial
administration. RHP would be assisted by SEDUE through a special unit for
construction management which would provide cost and quality control and
detailed construction schedules with experienced quantity surveyors and field
inspectors. They would be responsible for preparing weekly progress reports.



-67 -
ANNEX X
Page 2 of 2
Support for the Department of the Federal District (DDF)
5.        About US$9 million would be required to strengthen the capacity of
the DDF to implement the project. The breakdown of this amount is as follows:
(i) Projects and studies required for the demolition assessments -
US$4.0 million;
(ii) studies of emergency seismic-resistant norms and regulations for
the new building code and soils and sub-soils for the
micro-zoning regulations for the Federal District - US$3.0
million; and
(iii) consultants services to assist in preparation of land use and
zoning plans and regulations as part of the Comprehensive
Reconstruction Plan for the Central Area of Mexico City - US$2.0
million.
Studies and Training of Seismic-Resistant Construction Methods
6.        A program of training addressed to the needs of the engineering and
architecture professions, construction supervisors and workers is being
prepared by the professional societies under the Council for Science and
Technology (CONACYT). This program will also include training in self-help
seismic-resistant construction. Special consideration will be devoted to the
need to improve technical knowledge concerning seismic resistant construction
in the interior of the country. It is estimated that approximately US$2.0
million would be devoted to this subcomponent.
Other Studies and Technical Assistance
7.        It is expected that additonal needs for consultants and technical
assistance would arise as the project progresses. An amount of US$1.6 million
is budgeted for other studies and technical assistance. The needs defining the
allocation of these funds will be identified as the project is implemented.
March 2, 1986



- 68 -
ANNEX XI
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO: EARTHQUAKE REHAEiILITATION AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
EMERGENCY BUILDING CODE, ITS IMPLEMENTATION AID PREPARATION OF NEW CODE
1.        Although the damage observed in most of the case* was a
consequence of a combination of a series of factors, the main factor was
that the buildings were designed and constructed based on codes which were
formulated on dynamic characteristics of ground motions (intensity and
duration) that were significantly exceeded during the September 19, 1985
Mexico Earthquake. This was immediately recognized by the Mexico
Government who appointed a Special Committee to revise the 1976 Code that
was the one enforced in the Distrito Federal. The committee formulated
significant changes to the 1976 codes which recognized the reasons given
for the observed damage. An Emergency Code was approved and has been in
force s:s of October 19, 1985.
2.        It should be noted that this Emergency Code is for the Distrito
Federal. There is a need to revise the earthquake codes in the other
states where severe damage occurred during the September 19, 1985 Mexico
Earthquake. The changes introduced in the Distrito Federal if strictly
enforced will avoid serious structural and nonstructural damages to
buildings in the Distrito Federal, if an earthquake ground notion of the
same characteristics as the September 19, 1985 earthquake occurs in the
future. Although the Emergency Code is a sound one, it should be
recognized that while the existence of a sound code is necessary it is not
sufficient. What is equally important is the way that buildings are
constructed and maintained during their service life.  Thus strict
implementation of this emergency code is essential.
Imolementation of the Emergency Code for the Distrito Federal
3.        The authorities of the Distrito Federal as well as the earthqiake
engineering community in the D.F. are conscious of the importance of the
strict implementation of the emergency code and have already started to
develop a series of programs to assure such implementation. For example
the Instituto Mexicano del Cemento z del Concreto (IMCYC) has already
organized a seminar on 'Evaluation and Repair of reinforced Concrete
Structures (which is based on the Emergency Code)." Similar seminars will
also be organized by 'he Colegio de Ingenieros. Suggestions for effective
implementation of the emergency code are given in Attachment A. It is
recommended that the activities suggested be developed not only in the
D.P. but in all the cities of the other states that could be affected by
severe earthquake ground motions. The duration of the workshops (which
should concentrate in specific subjects) can vary from 2 to 5 days. The
duration of the courses can vary from 2 weeks to 4 months depending on the
intensity of the activities during the day as well as the subjects to be
covered in the course. It should be noted that already there are in Mexico
different institutions that have offered in the past such workshops and
courses. For example the "Instituto de Ingenieria' de la U1AM and the
IKC'C have in the past organized short courses and workshops for
professionals, engineers working in earthquake engineering. The Instituto
de Capacitacion de la Industria de la Construccion" has courses for
supervisors, technicians and employees working in the construction industry.



- 69 -
ANNEX XI
Page 2 of 2
Therefore all that is needed is to coordinate these already existing
activities and modify and/or introduce new courses according to the changes
introduced in the code and the practical requirements of the new code and
new methodt for earthquake-resistant design and construction.
Development of the Rev Code
4.        Already a Committee has been appointed to develop a new code by
December, 1986.Although the approved emergency code conceptually is a sound
one, some of quantifications (numerical coefficients, and empirical
expressons) can be questioned due to the lack of reliable data. Therefore
it is of paramount importance that Merico's researchers and professionals
carry out the necessary studies to obtain the needed data. Some of these
data can be obtained only through measurements in the field from
instruments that need to be installed. Other information can be obtained
through integrated analytical and experimental studies to be conducted in
the laboratories of research institutes. Examples of needed studies
follow:
Ca)   Microzoning Ordinance.  To improve present classification of
soil and sub soil conditions in the D.F. as well as in other
cities (Lazaro Cardenas, Ciudad Guzuan, Acapulco) it will be
necessary to conduct boring (drilling) to determine the variation
of soil profiles and depths of the different soil layers.
(b)     Response Spectra.  To be able to formulate more reliable design
spectra, it will be necessary to record ground motions.
Cc)     Efficient Structural Systems.  Experimental and analytical
studies are required to determine the efficiency of present
structural systems that are used (example, can the flat or waffle
slab system be used efficiently? What has to be done to improve
their seismic response).
(d)     Quality of Materials.  Economical ways of improving the
aggregates (fine and course) that are used in the production of
concrete.
(e)     De-termination of Xore Reliable Design Excitations.  For example
the case of live load that should be used in combination with
seismic effects.
(f)     Proper Foundation Systems:  Friction vs Bearing Piles.  Use of
Balanced Foundation.



- 70 -
IMEXICO: EARTHQUAKE RERABILITATION AND RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
ANNEX XI
AttachWent A
Implementation of Building Codes
Sugxestions
To organize workshops and courses where not only recognized
authorities in the different fields or asPects involved in
seismic-resistant construction will discuss and Illustrate the different
subjects but also will prepare notes with specific examples of
applications. These workshops should he organized for the different
professionals, technicians, and governmental officers and representatives
of the industry involved in construction of huildings.
1.        Inspectors:  Capahle Engineers would he exposed to all the
aspects of earthquake design (modeling, numerical analysis, Proportioning,
and detailing of memhers and their connections and supports), construction
and maintenance, and their importance.
2.        Designers:  Architects would study the importance of orover
selection of building configuration, structural layout (regularity) as well
as the significant effects of the so called -non structural" components.
3.        Structural Engineers:  They would study methodolosies to improve
the selection of structural systems as well as of the -non structural'
components, and of proportions and simvle detailing for larse -ductility
which can he carried out in the field.
Ia        Contractors:  They would study the importance of auality control
of materials, workm'anship, prover construction of scale building models
that have been designed, curine, etc., during period of construction.
5.        Technicians:  Construction superintendents, would study all the
aspects indicated for the Constructors.
March 2, 1986



> _   -    <   ^t  P    t    ._. 19ESEvoIucke           _ n s~~~~VW
;  w  MCh>C^   f  g,fl,>r    --| 757EorlhElUlI es 0 as
'-S,.'>  _-  H,lrs C ........ l7 
x  '     v;@etdtrws'-- l               S:C#:f   ee
l  rArlrle _ Q I * 3 '~~~ 2






