Document of                  i K
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-3369-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT OF US$304.5 MILLION
TO
COMPANHIA VALE DO RIO DOCE
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE
CARAJAS IRON ORE PROJECT
July 22, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1981               July 7, 1982
Currency Unit  =       Cruzeiro (Cr$)               Cr$
Cr$1            =      US$0.0155                    US$0.0057
US$1            5      Cr$94.75                     Cr$175.40
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Unless otherwise indicated, dollar equivalent figures in this report are
based on the dollar-cruzeiro exchange rate as of December 31, 1981 (US$1.00 =
-Cr$125.04), the date of the base cost estimates.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
ALBRAS       Aluminio Brasileiro S.A.
(Brazilian Aluminium, Inc.)
ALUNORTE     Alumina do Norte do Brasil, S.A.
(Alumina of Northern Brazil, Inc.)
AMZA         Amazonia Mineracao S.A.
(Amazon Mining, Inc.)
BNDES        Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social
(National Bank for Economic amd Social Development)
CACEX        Carteira do Commercio Exterior do Banco do Brasil S.A.
(Foreign Trade Department of Banco do Brasil)
CIMA         Comissao Interna de Meio Ambiente
(CVRD Internal Commission for the Environment)
CIP          Conselho Interministerial dos Preqos
(Interministerial Council for Prices)
CONSIDER      Conselho de Nao Ferrosos e de Siderurgia
(Council for Non-Ferrous Metals and Steel)
COSIPA       Companhia Siderurgica Paulista
(Sao Paulo Steel Company)
CSN          Companhia Siderurgica Nacional
(National Steel Company)
CVRD         Companhia Vale do Rio Doce
(Rio Doce Valley Company)
DEPEK        Departamento de Edificios e Projetos
(CVRD Department for Buildings and Projects)
DNPM         Departamento Nacional da Produgao Mineral
(National Department for Mineral Production)
EC           European Communities
ECSC         European Coal and Steel Community
ELETRONORTE  Centrais Eletricas do Norte do Brasil S.A.
(Electricity Company for Northern Brazil, Inc.)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS (Continued)
ELETROBRAS   Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A.
(Brazilian Electricity Company, Inc.)
FINAME       Agencia Especial de Financiamento Industrial
(Special Agency for Industrial Finance)
FUNAI        Fundacao Nacional do Indio
(National Indian Foundation)
GEAMAM       Grupo de Estudos e Assessoramento de Meio Ambiente
(CVRD Environmental Advisory Group)
IESA         Internacional de Engenharia, S.A.
(International Engineering, Inc.)
KfW          Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
(German Development Aid Agency)
MBR          Mineracoes Brasileiras Reunidas, S.A.
(Brazilian Mining, Inc.)
MRN          Mineracao Rio do Norte S.A.
(Rio Norte Mining, Inc.)
PETROBRAS    Petroleo Brasileiro S.A.
(Brazilian Petroleum, Inc.)
SUCAR        Superintendencia de Implantaqao do Projeto Carajas
(CVRD Superintendency for Implementation of Carajas Project)
SUNOR        Superintendencia de Pre-Operacao Norte
(CVRD Superintendency for Northern Pre-Operation)
USIMINAS     Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais S/A
(Minas Gerais Steel Company)



BRAZIL
CARAJAS IRON ORE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower        Companhia Vale do Rio Doce
Guarantor   :  Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount       : US$304.5 million equivalent, including capitalized front-end
fee of US$4.5 million
Te!rms       : Repayment in 15 years, including three years of grace, at
11.6% interest per annum.  The Borrower will pay an additional
guarantee fee of 1.2% to the Guarantor, for an effective
interest rate of 12.8%.
Project
Description
and
Objectives      The main objective of the project is to develop, exploit and
export iron ore from the vast iron ore deposits at the "Serra
dos Carajas" in the Amazonian State of Para, in order to
contribute to Brazil's foreign exchange--earnings and ease
the balance-of-payment constraint to Brazil's economic devel-
opment. The Carajas iron ore deposits represent Brazil's
largest known potential for development and export in the
mining sector. The project would also contribute through
provision of basic infrastructure to the future development of
Brazil's largely unexploited Eastern Amazon Region, including
other mineral developments, largely for export, and agricul-
tural development.
The project consists of the development of an iron ore (open
pit) mining complex at Carajas with an initial capacity of 35
million tons per year (tpy), a deep-water port near the city
of Sao Luis, in the Northeastern State of Maranhao, with a
handling capacity of vessels of up to 280,000 dwt, and a
single track 1.6 meter gauge railway line of approximately 890
km interconnecting the mine to the port. The project also
includes the development of a town-site at Carajas to
accommodate an initial population of around 10,000, new
housing and supporting facilities along the railway line,
environmental and Amerindian protection components, and a
staff training program.
Risks           The project presents few technical risks, as the major
components -- mine, railway, and port -- are relatively
straightforward in technical design, construction and
operation, and the interfaces between components have been
taken adequately into account in project management and
on-going operating arrangements. The current oversupply of
iron ore is of concern, however, and there is a "market



- ii -
risk" which could affect the project in two ways:  first, it
could reduce the availability of internally generated funds
to CVRD needed to complete the financing of the project
during the construction period; and second, it could reduce
the expected project benefits if iron ore prices or tonnages
sold are below those forecast. The Bank and other experts
have concluded, however, that there is a reasonable
expectation that the market will be in equilibrium by the
time Carajas comes on stream in the period 1985-1988, and
that there will be no depressive price-effect resulting from
the Carajas project. As regards the financing risks to the
project, these have been addressed by limiting CVRD's equity
contributions from internal cash generation during the
crucial years 1982-84, through the contracting of $400
million in special "contingency" financing, through
Government cost-overrun guarantees, and through restrictions
on CVRD's ability to undertake new investment without the
Bank's concurrence.
Estimated Costs:                             US$ Million Equivalent
Local   Foreign   Total         _
Mine                                   428.7    194.1    622.8        19.5
Railroad                             1,105.9    596.1  1,702.0        53.5
Port                                   182.1      48.6    230.7        7.3
Townsites                              130.4      48.5    178.9        5.6
Project Management                     431.2       3.8    435.0       13.7
Amerindian Program                      13.6       -        13.6       0.4
TOTAL BASE COST                      2,291.9    891.1  3,183.0 a/  100.0
Physical Contingencies                 226.0      95.4    321.4       10.1
Price Escalation                       109.9    135.3    245.2         7.7
INSTALLED COST                      2,627.8  1,121.8  3,749.6        117.8
Working Capital                        171.4      41.5    212.9        6.7
PROJECT COST                         2,799.2  1,163.3  3,962.5       124.5
Interest During Construction b/       237.6    322.0    559.6         17.6
Front-End Fee On Bank Loan               -         4.5      4.5        0.1
TOTAL FINANCING                      3,036.8  1,489.8  4,526.6       142.2
a/ The Project is exempt from import and customs duties, and from local
value added taxes (IPI and ICM).
b/ Includes IDC through June 30, 1985.



MM= yn^z   
cClPIz5 D1=VD   :-    Dor 
t   '     - ,aS151  :     W_/ =m






- iii -
Financing Plan:                                       US$ Million          %
A. Equity
1.  CVRD Internal Cash Generation
a.  Expended to 12/81                           524.1          11.6
b.  New from 1982-88                           914.1           20.2
Sub-total                           1,438.2          31.8
2.  New Capital Subscription
a.  Reinvested Government Dividends            257.2            5.7
b.  CVRD Convertible Debentures                 125.0 a/        2.7
Sub-total                             382.2           8.4
Total Equity                  1,820.4           40.2
]3. Debt
1.  Local
a.  BNDES                                      697.0           15.4
b.  FINAME                                     321.4            7.1
c.  Banco da Amazonia/Others                    75.2            1.7
d.  CVRD Convertible Debentures                125.0 a/         2.7
Sub-total                           1,218.6          26.9
2.  Foreign
a.  Japanese Import Loan                       250.0            5.6
b.  Japanese Exim Bank Direct Loan              50.0            1.1
c.  Japanese Commercial Bank Syndication    150.0               3.3
d.  Japanese Bond Issues                        45.4            1.0
e.  ECSC                                       400.0            8.8
f.  KfW                                         130.0           2.9
g.  IBRD                                       304.5            6.7
h.  Morgan Guarantee                            27.0 b/         0.6
i.  European Export Credits                     36.7            0.8
j.  Japanese Export Credits                     36.0            0.8
k.  U.S. Exim Bank                              58.0            1.3
Sub-total                          1,487.6           32.9
Total Debt                    2,706.2           59.8
C.  Total Financing                                   4,526.6         100.0
D.  Contingency                                         400.0 c/        8.8
E.  Total Financing Plus Contingency                  4,926.6          108.8
a!  Issues of CVRD convertible debentures totals US$250 million, of which
50% is assumed to be converted into common and preferred shares.
b/ Fully disbursed in 1981.
c/ Commercial co-financing: US$200 million; EEC: US$200 million.



- iv -
Estimated
Disbursement:                                 US$ Million Equivalent
Bank FY 83    FY 84  FY 85  FY 86  FY 87
Annual             122.4       136.6   35.1    6.3    4.1
Cumulative         122.4       259.0  294.1  300.4  304.5
Rate of
Return               13%
Staff
Appraisal
Report               Report No. 3921-BR, dated July 6, 1982.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF
US$304.5 MILLION TO COMPANHIA VALE DO RIO DOCE
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE CARAJAS IRON ORE PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Companhia Vale do Rio Doce (CVRD) with the guarantee of the Federative
Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$304.5 million, including a
capitalized front-end fee of US$4.5 million, to assist in the financing of
the Carajas iron ore project. The proposed loan would have a term of 15
years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum. CVRD
would pay an additional guarantee fee of 1.2% to the Guarantor.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.         The most recent economic report entitled "Economic Memorandum on
Brazil" (Report No. 3275a-BR dated May 29, 1981) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on June 26, 1981. A mission to prepare a new country
economic memorandum was in the field during May 1982 and its report will be
distributed shortly. Country data are provided in Annex I.
3.         The present government, headed by President Figueiredo, took office
on March 15, 1979, for a six-year term. Much of its attention has had to be
devoted to grappling with inflation and a difficult balance-of-payments
situation. Major economic priorities of the Government include the growth of
agriculture, reduced dependence on imported petroleum, continued expansion of
manufactured exports, and increasing domestic savings. Success on these
fronts is crucial to the solution of the inflation and balance-of-payments
problems, as well as to the sustained improvement of living standards and
better income distribution.
Economic Performance
4.         In the 13 years ending in 1980, Brazil enjoyed a high level of
economic growth, with GDP rising at a rate of about 9% per annum. During the
1967-73 period, growth was achieved with no significant deterioration of the
external resource balance, despite considerable trade liberalization, arnI
there also occurred a decline in the rate of domestic inflation. However,
given the dependence of industry and transport on petroleum, over 80% of
which was imported, the quadrupling of oil prices in 1973 resulted in a sharp
1/ Parts I and II are reproduced without substantial change from the
corresponding parts of the President's Report on the Maranhao Rural
Development Project (Report No. P-3327-BR, dated May 21, 1982).



- 2 -
deterioration in the nation's terms of trade. Excess aggregate demand and a
succession of bad harvests, along with higher energy costs, resulted in
increasing balance-of-payments difficulties and the acceleration of
inflation.
5.         Coping with these constraints, while responding to pressures to
maintain growth of output and employment and simultaneously establishing the
basis for structural adjustment, has been the central problem of Brazilian
economic management. At the same time that success was achieved in
maintaining growth, an innovative effort was launched to reduce energy con-
sumption and substitute domestic energy resources for imported petroleum.
Through 1978, the balance-of-payments pressures were contained through the
rapid expansion of exports (particularly of manufactures), increased import
barriers, import substitution, and heavy external borrowing. However, the
rapid accumulation of external debt, compression of imports, and intensifica-
tion of inflationary pressures increased the economy's vulnerability to
further external shock, and that vulnerability was severely tested by the
sharp increases in petroleum prices and interest rates that occurred in 1979
and 1980.
6.        Measures were taken in 1979 and 1980 to improve control over public
sector spending and monetary expansion. These included increased central
authority over the investments and borrowings of the public enterprises, the
phasing-out of tax earmarkings, and the reduction of major consumer and
producer subsidies. Nevertheless, aggregate demand continued to grow
strongly, placing severe pressure on prices and the balance of payments. In
1980, inflation accelerated to 110% (from 41% in 1978), and, despite a 32%
growth of exports and significant reduction in the volume of petroleum
imports, the current account deficit grew to almost US$13 billion (compared
to $6 billion in 1978). At the same time, Brazil's international reserves
fell from US$11.9 billion to $6.9 billion, and terms tightened on new foreign
borrowing.
7.         In response to the deteriorating situation, and strengthened by the
institutional reforms of the previous two years, constraints were imposed on
aggregate demand in 1981, and efforts to correct the trade balance were
increased. In an effort to encourage private financial savings and maintain
export incentives, monetary correction and exchange rate adjustments, which
were allowed to lag in 1980, were brought back into line with domestic
inflation. Banks were freed from interest rate controls on their lending,
and rates were increased on official credits. Some tax incentives to
exports, which had been eliminated in the wake of a large devaluation of the
cruzeiro at the end of 1979, were restored, while the foreign exchange
transactions tax on imports was raised from 15% to 25%.
8.        As a consequence of these measures, the economy entered into reces-
sion in 1981. Despite an estimated 8% growth of agricultural output, GDP
declined around 4%. The industrial sector was hard hit by high interest
rates and cutbacks in public expenditures, and unemployment has increased in
the industrial centers. Manufactured exports, however, continued to grow
rapidly, 32.6% in nominal terms, and a merchandise trade surplus of some
US$1.2 billion was achieved in contrast to deficits of $2.8 billion in both
1979 and 1980.  The 1981 surplus also reflected zero growth of imports,



- 3 -
including the further reduction of petroleum imports. Despite sharply higher
interest payments abroad, the current account deficit was cut by some US$2
billion. Inflation for the year was reduced to 95% with a declining trend
evident through the second half of the year. No problems were experienced in
obtaining the US$11.5 billion in net external financing required in 1981.
Contrasting with 1979 and 1980 foreign exchange reserves increased by US$600
million in 1981. Total M&LT external debt at year-end was about US$61.4
billion.
Poverty Programs
9.        Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the government has made substantial efforts to relieve poverty.
In addition to efforts to maintain the growth of employment and prevent the
erosion of real wages, special programs for the northeast region have been
continued notwithstanding the tight fiscal and monetary restraints. Coverage
of the social security program has been expanded and extended to the rural
population. More than 70% of the urban population is now covered by the
social security health care system, and a cash transfer program has been
established for the rural elderly poor. Almost two million loans have been
made for housing by the National Housing Bank (BNH) since 1964. Improvement
and extension of the primary health services to the urban and rural poor
areas is a government priority in the health sector. A program for grass-
roots health and sanitation actions for northeast Brazil was initiated in
1976. A sites and services program was established in 1975 to benefit the
urban poor more directly, and this was complemented in 1977 by a program to
finance home improvement and building materials. High priority has also been
glven to the extension and improvement of urban water supply. Consequently,
some six million households comprising about 30 million people have been
connected to public water supply systems since 1971, increasing the propor-
tion of urban dwellers who receive such services to 75%. 2/
Fuiture Prospects
10.       Since 1973, Brazil has made major efforts to reduce petroleum
imports. Investments in exploration have been accelerated, and foreign
companies have been invited to drill under risk contracts with PETROBRAS, the
state oil company. Investments have also been undertaken to develop the
nation's hydroelectric potential, to initiate nuclear power production, to
substitute alcohol for gasoline, to expand domestic coal production, and to
exploit Brazil's shale oil deposits. Efforts are also being made to induce
energy conservation. While results thus far are encouraging, dependence on
imported energy remains formidable. With oil imports constituting an
estimated US$10.3 billion (nearly 44% of Brazil's imports) in 1981, as
compared to US$700 million (11% of imports) in 1973, the trade-off between
growth and balance-of-payments viability will continue to be a principal pre-
occupation of economic decision-makers.
2/ For a more detailed account of these efforts see "The Distribution of
Income in Brazil" (Staff Working Paper No. 356, dated September 1979) and
"Brazil - Human Resources Special Report" (Report No. 2604-BR, dated
July 13, 1979).



- 4 -
11.       In view of the balance-of-payments constraint, Brazil must continue
to experience a period of careful demand management.  Accelerated devalua-
tions of the cruzeiro, the removal of import deposit requirements, the
scheduled phasing-out of tax subsidies to export, and the gradual freeing of
prices and interest rates should help to promote more efficient resource
allocation favorable to both export growth and efficient import substitu-
tion. Public investments may continue to be constrained by reduced resource
availabilities over the next several years, and foreign lenders, including
the Bank, should De prepared to finance a significant proportion of project
costs including, when necessary, a part of local costs. Furthermore,
priority attention has to be given to the development of domestic energy
sources, agriculture and the stimulation of domestic savings.
12.       Growth is expected to recover to about 3-4% in 1982 and to average
about 6% per annum in 1983-86, as compared to 11% in 1967-73 and 7.2% in
1973-80. Such a growth rate should be compatible with a falling current
account deficit through 1986. The debt service ratio would decline slowly.
These projections are sensitive, however, to petroleum prices, interest
rates, and the rate of growth of manufactured exports. The combination of
high debt service and a high share of petroleum in total imports leaves the
economy vulnerable and this may be expected to persist for several years.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
13.       Brazil's resource balance is expected to become positive in 1982,
but interest payments on the growing external debt will increase throughout
the 1982-86 period, even if interest rates should decline. Thus large
service account deficits will contribute to current account deficits through
1986. As a proportion of GDP, the current account deficit is projected to
fall steadily from its peak of 5.4% in 1980. This projection assumes that
imports grow at a moderate pace through 1986, reflecting restrained demand
and a strengthening of the domestic savings effort.
14.       Net medium- and long-term borrowing requirements are expected to be
around US$9 billion in 1982, and to decline thereafter. Gross borrowing
would be about US$16 billion this year and remain in the US$15-16 billion
range over the five-year period, with 70% obtained as financial credits from
private lenders. Consequently, the net debt service ratio 3/ would decline
from about 55% in 1980 to about 39% in 1986.
15.       In summary, after a period of rapid growth in the late 1960s and
1970s, the increased cost of petroleum imports has forced the nation to
moderate its growth expectations and to adapt its economic structure to the
changed terms of trade. This adjustment process was initially eased by a
strong reserve position, a solid image of creditworthiness, the aggressive
expansion of manufactured exports, and the opportunities for efficient import
substitution offered by the large domestic market. Nevertheless, heavy
dependence on petroleum imports, the resurgence of domestic inflation, and
3/ Including both public and private debt. The figure for public debt
service alone would be substantially lower. For example, in 1980 the
public sector accounted for only 61% of total debt service payments.



-5-
the rapid accumulation of external debt left the economy vulnerable to
further external shocks. The government recognizes the need for careful
demand management and for selectivity in its investment policies emphasizing
eff'iciency in export expansion, import substitution, employment creation, and
poverty alleviation.
16.        The sensitivity of Brazil's balance of payments to petroleum prices
and interest rates makes projections subject to a wide margin of error. The
present scenario also depends on Brazil's ability to curtail inflation,
expand manufactured exports, and on its continued access to international
capital. A major effort is underway to reduce dependence on foreign
peltroleum, but significant results may not be apparent for several years. On
the other hand, the Brazilian economy remains dynamic, diversified, and
resilient.  The task of economic management will not be easy, but policy-
makers have demonstrated their ability to adjust to changing circumstances,
and recent policy measures have strengthened their management capacity.
Thuas, Brazil remains creditworthy for new borrowing on conventional terms in
the amounts indicated above.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
17.        By March 31, 1982 the Bank had made 110 loans to Brazil, amounting
to US$6,310.8 million (net of cancellations), of which 58 were not yet fully
disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150 million per year,
reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$267 million in FY77, US$252 million in
FY78, US$295 million in FY79, US$318 million in FY80 and US$378 million in
FY81. The total undisbursed amount as of March 31, 1982 was US$3,003.5
million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of March 31,
1982 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.        Over the FY77-81 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from US$425
million to over US$800 million per year. In FY82, eight loans totaling
US$724 million were approved, including four loans totaling US$346.4 million
for the first and second phases of Bank participation in the POLONOROESTE
program, a loan of US$182.7 million for a power distribution project, a loan
of US$42.7 million for a rural development project in the State of Maranhao,
a loan of US$26.4 million for an agricultural development project in the
state of Amazonas and a loan of US$125.9 million for an urban development
project in the city of Recife. The documents for an engineering loan of
US$8.9 million to prepare metropolitan development programs for the
Northeastern cities of Salvador and Fortaleza have been distributed to the
Executive Directors.  For FY83, work is relatively advanced on a third loan
for secondary and feeder roads, the third-phase project of the northwest
region development program, and loans for a second development banking
project, a rural development project in the northeastern state of Bahia, and
a third agro-industries credit project.
19.        Brazil's external public and private debt outstanding and disbursed
at the end of 1980 amounted to US$63 billion, and is estimated to have been
US$56 billion at the end of 1981. At the end of 1980, the Bank held 3.9% of
the debt, and its share of the service on this debt in 1980 was 2%. In 1981,
the Bank's share in total outstanding debt is estimated to have risen
slightly to 4.2% while its share in total debt service remained constant.
These percentages are not expected to rise significantly in the next five
years.



- 6 -
20.       As of March 31, 1982, IFC commitments to Brazil totaled US$819.5
million, of which US$546.2 million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. Of
the balance of US$273.3 million, US$207.6 million represent loans and US$65.7
million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of March 31, 1982 is given
in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
21.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the
Government achieve important development objectives which are interdepen-
dent. One lending objective in Brazil is to help intensify the efforts of
the Government to develop projects that will increase the productivity of the
lowest income segments of the population, to broaden the opportunities open
to those groups, and to improve their living conditions.  Previous loans for
nutrition, primary education, vocational training, agricultural research,
agricultural extension, polder construction in the lower Sao Francisco river
basin, and integrated rural development were designed to assist low-income
groups in rural areas, especially those in the northeast. The Bank is
currently reviewing its experience over the past ten years in the Northeast
of Brazil, and is working with the Government to identify possible compatible
approaches to the region to assist the rural poor. Loans for water supply
and sewerage projects, for urban transport in several major cities, a loan
for sites and services and low-cost housing, and loans for urban development
in several medium-sized cities and in Recife are assisting the improvement of
the living conditions of the urban population, particularly of the urban
poor.
22.       Another lending objective in Brazil is to support institutional
development and policy reform designed to establish adequate coordination and
control within the public sector and help maximize public savings and ensure
that they are used economically through rational selection of projects.
Loans for urban development, industrial finance, agricultural research and
extension, rural development, water supply and sewerage, and the loan for
alcohol and biomass energy development approved last year have important
institution-building objectives.
23.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange con-
straint on development by supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's
export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production for
imports. A main objective of the proposed Carajas iron ore project is to
increase Brazil's exports of iron ore in order to increase its foreign
exchange earnings. Lending for the electric power sector supports this
objective, since it is based on hydroelectric energy, and its development
lessens the need for petroleum imports.  Bank support of fertilizer and
petrochemical projects is assisting Brazil to substitute large-scale effi-
cient domestic production for imports and thus aid its balance-of-payments
position. The alcohol and biomass energy development project addresses the
need to restrict growth of petroleum imports. Much of the Bank-assisted
investment in the transport sector -- railways, ports and highways -- is
designed to facilitate the economical flow of exports.
24.       A final objective is to provide part of the large medium- and
long-term capital inflows that Brazil needs to sustain satisfactory growth
and achieve its employment creation and regional development objectives.



Continued lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the international
financial community as a sign of confidence in Brazil and encourages others
to contribute to the country's development. In some sectors, especially in
electric power and industry, Bank participation has helped Brazil to obtain
additional resources in greater amounts and on more favorable terms from
bilateral credit agencies and private financial institutions than may
otherwise have been provided. Thirteen co-financing operations, for more
than US$500 million, have been concluded since 1976 with private financial
irnstitutions and several others are in preparation, including US$200 million
fcr the proposed project (para. 72).
PART III - THE MINING SECTOR AND REGIONAL IMPACT
The Mining Sector
25.        In 1980, the mining sector contributed over 10% (about US$1.6
billion) to the value of Brazil's merchandise exports, about 1.3% to GDP, and
about 1% to total Government revenues. Sector output is highly diversified
(some 70 mineral commodities are produced) although dominated by iron ore,
which in 1980 accounted for 26% of the value of mineral production and over
90% of the value of mineral exports. In addition to being one of the world's
principal producers of iron ore, Brazil is the leading producer of pyrochlore
(columbium), ferro columbium and natural quartz crystals. In terms of value,
other important minerals are crushed stone, limestone, coal, marine salt,
manganese, bauxite, gold and tin. The vast size of Brazil's known reserves
in many of its important minerals provides the country with a long-term
economic base. Brazil's mining sector is made up of about 670 companies,
most of which are privately held. Over half of total production, however, is
concentrated in 50 major companies, of which three are state-owned.
Companies operate under a mining code established in 1967 under Decree Law
No. 227 which provides a sound basis for the development of Brazil's mineral
wealth.
26j.       The Departamento Nacional da Producao Mineral (DNPM) within the
Ministry of Mines and Energy is responsible for the implementation of mining
policy, enforcement of the mining code, and issuance of exploration and
m:Lning licenses. In addition, the DNPM prepares the national mining plans,
the current plan covering the period 1981-90. This plan gives priority to
the production of copper to reduce the substantial import of this commodity
and to other commodities in which Brazil is deficient, namely lead, zinc,
tin and aluminum. The development program for the greater Carajas region is
being carried on outside the mining plan.
27.        The Government is actively promoting foreign, domestic and espe-
cially private participation in the mineral sector through the provision of
tax, financial, and customs incentives. The Government has given priority to
the Carajas Project, granting in late 1980 special incentives to CVRD for the
Project as well as incentives for the overall Grande Carajas Program for
development of the greater region of the Eastern Amazon. This region, com-
prising an area of about 4,000 km2 located north of the 8th parallel and
between the Amazon, Xingu and Parnaiba rivers, covering part of the states of
Para, Goias and Maranhao, is unique in mineral potential, and includes iron



- 8 -
ore, manganese, nickel, copper, tin, bauxite, gold and others.  The condi-
tions are also favorable to agricultural, cattle raising and reforestation
activities. Most of Brazil's recent mineral discoveries have been in the
Carajas region (see IBRD Map No. 16254 attached at the end of this report).
28.        The proposed loan would be the first by the Bank Group directly to
CVRD, and the fifth loan in the Brazilian mineral sector. The Bank Group has
participated in three CVRD-sponsored projects: a US$15 million IFC
investment in the Trombetas bauxite project (IFC Inv. No. 377-BR of August
22, 1977), a US$82 million Bank loan for the Valefertil fertilizer project
(Loan No. 1411-BR of April 29, 1977); and a US$98 million Bank loan for the
Valesul aluminum project (Loan No. 1660-BR of March 7, 1979). These projects
have been successfully completed. Other mineral sector loans have been a
loan of US$22 million for the Alcominas Aluminum Project (Loan No. 526-BR of
January 26, 1968) and a loan of US$50 million for the MBR iron ore project
(Loan No. 787-BR of August 25, 1971), which were also successfully
completed.  A Project Performance Audit report on the MBR Iron Ore Project
has been issued (Sec-M76-856, dated December 20, 1976). The success of the
MBR project has been outstanding, principally because of excellent project
management and continuous tight cost control.  Lessons to be learned from
this project point primarily to the need for close collaboration between the
mining and transport components in such export-oriented projects.
Regional Impact
29.        The Project is expected to have a major impact on accelerating the
development of the Greater Carajas region by providing basic transportation
infrastructure linking the remote interior by rail with the northern sea
coast near Sao Luis and developing a major bulk terminal for ocean shipping.
There are several projects in the region already in early stages of develop-
ment (copper, bauxite, manganese, tin) which are likely to make use of the
Carajas transportation network. The Project will draw large numbers of
persons into the region (with direct employment alone of an estimated 5,000-
6,000 persons at full operation) and spur both directly and indirectly the
development of towns and areas in the region into commercial and industrial
centers.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
30.        The Government first discussed Bank assistance in the integrated
development of the Carajas iron ore deposits in 1972 when the Project was in
its early stages of formulation. Since then, the Government, the Project
owners, and the Bank have had a continuous dialogue during which the Project
has undergone significant modifications in scope, design and ownership. The
Project was appraised in October/November 1981. Follow-up missions visited
Brazil during the first quarter of 1982 to review capital cost estimates
which CVRD updated in February 1982 and certain aspects of the transportation



- 9 -
and urban development plans. Loan negotiations were held in Washington from
June 9 to 15, 1982. The Brazilian delegation was headed by Dr. Carlos
Roberto Cristalli of the Federal Secretariat of Planning and by Dr. Samir
Zraick, Financial Director of CVRD. Significant events and special
conditions are summarized in Annex III. The Project is described in detail
in Staff Appraisal Report No. 3921-BR, dated July 6, 1982, which is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Objective
31.       The objective of the Project is to develop, exploit and export iron
ore from the vast iron ore deposits at Carajas in order to contribute to
Brazil's foreign exchange earnings and balance of payments improvement. The
Carajas iron ore deposits represent the largest known potential for
devielopment and export in Brazil's mining sector. The Project would also
contribute through provision of basic infrastructure to subsequent resource
developments in the region which would largely also be for export.
Baclkground
32.       CVRD was established by decree in June 1942 as a majority
state-owned enterprise and operates according to its corporate by-laws to
develop mineral deposits in Brazil and abroad by extraction, beneficiation,
industrialization, transportation, shipping and trade in mineral products.
The company is one of the largest iron ore operating companies in the world,
producing 68 million tpy of iron ore in 1980 from its operations in the "Iron
Qua,drangle" in the state of Minas Gerais, herein referred to as the "southern
system." CVRD owns and operates the Vitoria-Minas railway linking its mines
at Itabira in the state of Minas Gerais, to the port at Tubarao in the state
of Espiritu Santo, and the port facilities, including three pelletizing
plants at Tubarao jointly owned with Japanese, Italian and Spanish partners.
The railroad's annual capacity is 100 million tons.
33.       In 1967, discovery was made of the Carajas iron ore deposits when
CVRD and a US Steel subsidiary in Brazil, Companhia Meridional de Mineracao,
were exploring the area for manganese. In 1970, CVRD and US Steel jointly
founded AMZA (50.9% CVRD, 49.1% US Steel) to determine the feasibility of
development and exploitation of the deposit and to organize and operate the
Carajas Project. The partnership lasted until June 15, 1977, when US Steel,
considering the Project scope and large magnitude of investments required,
withdrew from the Project allowing CVRD to purchase all of its stock.  CVRD
acquired the AMZA shares held by Meridional/US Steel at a value equal to the
exploration expenditures incurred by the foreign group, amounting to approx-
*         imately US$50 million.  On April 6, 1981, AMZA was merged with CVRD to
strengthen CVRD control over the Project.
34.       The first feasibility study, initiated in May 1972 and done under
the responsibility of AMZA, contemplated an integrated mining project con-
sisting of a mine, beneficiation plant, transport system and a port. Market
analyses and preliminary studies for auxiliary installations and services
were prepared. Various alternatives related to mining plans, transport
systems and port locations were assessed. Comprehensive studies completed in
May 1974 of the northern Brazilian coastline indicated that Ponta da Madeira
in Sao Marcos Bay, in the vicinity of Sao Luis, capital of the State of



- 10 -
Maranhao, was the most favorable location for a deep-water port.  In May
1976, AMZA was granted the concession to build and operate a railroad between
the port site and Serra dos Carajas.
35.       Initially, AMZA contemplated an annual production of 20 million
tons, to be increased in stages to 50 million tpy. In view of the huge
investments required for the 50 million tpy project, and as a result of con-
tinuous studies of the iron ore market and its projected trends, CVRD, being
the sole owner of AMZA, directed AMZA in 1978 to undertake new technical and
economic studies to arrive at an optimal production level. These studies,
completed in 1980, indicated an annual production level of 35 million tons by
1987 with provision for future expansion once the iron ore market could
accept additional quantities. CVRD was assisted in the final revision of the
feasibility study for the Project by International Engineering Services,
S.A. (IESA), a majority Brazilian owned consulting firm, and in the economic
evaluation of the Project by Hill Samuel & Co. Limited (UK). With advice
from the Bank, the project scope was substantially reduced during the final
phase of review, particularly the railroad component where reductions
amounted to some US$400 million.
Project Description
36.       The Project consists of the integrated development of Carajas iron
ore deposits in the State of Para, a deep-water port on the island of Sao
Luis in the State of Maranhao and an interconnecting railroad line of some
890 km.
Mine Component
37.       Ore Reserves.  Most of the iron ore reserves in the Carajas Region
are located in two sectors of the Serra dos Carajas -- Serra Norte and Serra
Sul -- which are about 35 km apart. These deposits were delineated as part
of an extensive exploration program carried out from 1969 to 1972. The
result of the program was to establish an estimated 17.8 billion tons of
reserves of high-grade, low-phosphorous iron ore, with an average grade of
about 66% Fe content. The magnitude of the reserves, the geographical
concentration and the high quality of the ore make the Carajas region one of
the most important iron ore regions in the world.
38.       Mining will start in one of the Serra Norte deposits (N4E) selected
for its relatively low overburden ratio, easy access to the railroad and
measured reserves of 1,280 million tons of high-grade ore. The mining
sequences and the ultimate pit plan were developed by using CVRD's own mine
planning computer program which has a proven record in the mines in the
southern system. Three different ore types are defined, and the mine layout
provides for sufficient exposed ore to allow an even run-of-mine ore blend to
be produced at all times.
39.       The proposed mine will be a conventional open-pit mine with a
favorable waste-to-ore ratio by weight of 1:2. Waste rock as well as ore
will be mined using a standard shovel/truck mining system employing nine 12
and 16 cu. yd. electrical shovels and twenty-three 154-ton off-the-highway
diesel electric trucks. The mine will be designed for an average output of



- 11 -
35 million tpy of beneficiated ore, but eventually be capable of producing
50 million tpy. The two main products at the 35 million tpy level production
capacity will be sinter feed (80%) and lumpy ore (20%).
40.       Beneficiation.  Because of its high natural iron content, the ore
requires no actual concentration or treatment other than simple reduction in
size of the run-of-mine ore to sinter feed and natural pellets. A pilot
plant, in half industrial scale, has been in operation at the mine site since
early 1981 and about 350,000 tons of ore have been tested. Beneficiation
facilities will consist of three stages of crushing (including primary crush-
ing) and screening, one stage of rod-milling, a solids recovery stage with
screw classifiers and cyclones and a final dewatering stage of the products.
Tailings will be pumped to two tailings ponds. Beneficiated products are to
be transported via belt conveyors to a stockpile area which will have a capa-
city of 1.6 million tons and where bucket wheel reclaimers and belt conveyors
will reclaim the natural pellets or sinterfeed to the train loading station.
Support facilities, such as maintenance, warehouses and offices, will be
commnon for the mine and processing plant.
41.       Pre-operation starting in 1982, entails removal of 5.2 million tons
of overburden (about 15 million tons of ore will then be exposed). Actual
mining of ore is scheduled to start in July 1985.
Railroad Component
42.       Fixed Installations.  The new railroad, which is being built to AAR
standards, has a total track length of 890 km with four stations and 36
crossing loops, each 2,300 m long. The railroad will be single track and
1.60-meter gauge, and will use heat-treated rails weighing 68 kg/meter, with
1,850 treated wooden ties per km on a 0.30 m bed of crushed stone ballast.
A Central Traffic Control system as well as an Automatic Train Control system
will be installed to be operated in the Sao Luis terminal including train
radio control and radio links for each crossing.
43.       Route Location.  The Carajas railroad will haul the ore from the
mine to Ponta da Madeira, on the island of Sao Luis, over predominantly flat
terrain with 860 m minimum curve radius. The only exception is a mid-section
area of hilly terrain in which track grades reach 0.4%. The only major
bridge will cross the Tocantins river at Maraba with a total length of about
2.3 km. As might be expected in that area, culverts totalling some 77 km in
length will be required. There will be 63 bridges in all along the route.
Two ballast quarries have been located adjacent to the railroad route, at Km
38 near Sao Luis and at Km 862 near Carajas. Both quarries have adequate
quality and quantity of stone.
44.       Operation.  The train types to be operated and their schedules were
determined through extensive computer research of many alternatives. The
standard train will have 160 iron ore wagons with an ore load of 15,680 tons
(19,200 gross tons) hauled by three 3,000 H.P. diesel electric locomotives
with two additional locomotive pushers for the 115-km mountainous section.
There will be eight ore trains per day in each direction and up to a maximum
of three service trains daily. The maximum speed of loaded trains will be
65 km/hr and empty trains 80 km/hr. The line will operate 320 days per
year. General cargo and passenger services are expected to start in the late



- 12 -
1980's. Tariffs for general cargo and passenger services on the Carajas
railway would be set at levels sufficient to cover the relevant costs of such
traffic (Section 3.12 of the draft Loan Agreement; Section 3.02(b) of the
draft Guarantee Agreement).
45.       Maintenance.  The Ponta da Madeira (Sao Luis) terminal will be the
main yard of the railroad and will include, inter alia, a centralized mainte-
nance workshop for all equipment, rolling stock, and motive power and a
fueling plant; wooden ties treatment plant; rail welding plant; and warehouse
for all necessary spares for the line. A supplemental, medium-sized mainte-
nance workshop will also be provided at the Maraba station yard. Track
maintenance will be undertaken by four teams along the line.
Port Component
46.       The new port is located in sheltered water, some 10 km southeast of
the city of Sao Luis in Sao Marcos bay and about 1.5 km north of the existing
port of Itaqui.  A natural and stable 88-km seaward approach channel, 1.6 km
wide, will permit simultaneous two-way traffic for ships of up to 280,000
dwt. Adequate water depth is available at Low Water Ordinary Spring Tides.
Rock groins are under construction to the north and south of the berth, on
alignments determined in a hydraulic model to reduce the ebb and flood tide
currents which can approach a speed of five knots to an acceptable maximum of
three knots alongside the berth. The approach channel is adequately
demarcated for navigation.
47.       Berth Construction.  Within the area enclosed by the groins and on
a north/south line, about 300 m offshore, four breasting dolphins will be
constructed where the ships will berth, with three mooring dolphins to the
north and three to the south. The remaining maritime structures will be
(i) a concrete runway platform, for the shiploader arm support; (ii) the
shiploader pivot block to the north of the center line behind the runway
platform; (iii) connecting walkways between dolphins and runway, and a
service platform; (iv) an approach bridge for the main feed conveyor to the
shiploader; and (v) a tug berth, behind the northern set of the mooring
dolphins. The shiploader will have a capacity of 16,000 tph.
48.       Back-up Facilities.  Included in the port complex are (i) two rail-
road car dumpers and (ii) the stockyard which has three reserve ore stacks
holding 3.3 million tons in total; two stackers and two bucket wheel reclaim-
ers. Ancillary facilities include maintenance and administration buildings,
utilities, and an operations center.
49.       Port Capacity.  The complete system will enable 35 million tpy to
be received from the railroad wagons and loaded into ships of up to 280,000
dwt. The limiting factor on the port capacity will be the number of ships
which can be handled per annum at the single berth. For 35 million tpy capa-
city, the berth occupancy will average 64%, which is satisfactory.
Town Developments
50.       The Project includes the development of one new town at Carajas to
accommodate an initial population of about 10,000, and with an infrastructure
and community services and facilities adequate for a population of about



- 13 -
14,000. While initially a substantial part of the service-worker population
will be accomodated in a neighboring town (Parauapebas), provision is being
made in the town plans for gradually settling service workers on a permanent
basis in Carajas town (based on an estimated requirement of 0.7
service-workers for each basic worker, which is consistent with the
experience of single industry, free-standing towns in the Americas), over a
5-year period after project start-up. At full development, Carajas town
will thus be fully self-contained in terms of community facilities and
services. In planning and designing the town, CVRD's past experience with
the Itabira township in the South has been well considered and local
environmental and climatological factors taken adequately into account.
51.       Settlements at eight locations along the 890 km railway line are
contemplated for maintenance staff. The first settlement will be at
Parauapebas for which CVRD is preparing an appropriate urban development plan
of lower specification than that for Carajas town. Accommodations will be
provided for railway maintenance staff and service workers; and serviced lots
provided to accommodate the numerous persons that are likely to be drawn to
the area seeking work in the region. New housing and supporting facilities
will be integrated into existing townsites at the remaining seven railway
maintenance locations. A land-use and zoning plan for the port/terminal area
near Sao Luis will be prepared in collaboration with the state and municipal
authorities.
52.       The following measures would be taken to ensure adequate develop-
ment and execution of the Project urban component:
(a)  CVRD would reserve about 1000 lots for additional service workers
in the first stage of development of the townsite and would enter
into arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with BNH or other
financial agencies, acceptable to the Bank, for carrying out a
credit program for financing the construction or purchase of the
houses to be built on such lots, to enable the permanent settlement
of about 1000 additional service workers and their families in the
townsite over a period of about 5 years from project completion
(Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
(b)  CVRD would furnish to the Bank by September 30, 1982, for approval,
(i) final designs of the town plan for Carajas, including modifica-
tions to the road plans, and site plans for all housing at Carajas,
and. (ii) an urban development plan for the accommodation at
Parauapebas by 1988 of around 10,000 people. CVRD would carry out
such urban development plan according to an implementation schedule
satisfactory to the Bank (Sections 3.01(c) and (d) of the draft
Loan Agreement);
(c)  CVRD would furnish to the Bank, by June 1, 1985, for comment, an
urban development plan for the second-phase development of Carajas
town, and, taking account of the Bank's comment thereon, carry
out such plan in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the
Bank (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement); and



- 14 -
(d)  CVRD would, not later than December 31, 1982, jointly with the
Federal Government and appropriate state and municipal authorities,
prepare a land-use and zoning plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for
the port-railway terminal area in Sao Luis, such plan to include
the resettlement of existing squatter groups in the area and
measures to control squatter invasions along the access highway to
the port. Not later than June 30, 1983, CVRD would enter into an
agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with the appropriate state and
municipal authorities in order to carry out such plan in accordance
with an implementation schedule satisfactory to the Bank (Section
3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Environmental Aspects
53.       In January 1981, CVRD created an independent environmental advisory
group - Grupo de Estudos e Assessoramento de Meio Ambiente (GEAMAM) -- to
advise on all environmental aspects of the Company, and particularly to over-
see activities at Carajas. The Group, composed of nine senior scientists/
Amazon experts, has prepared an environmental management manual with CVRD,
containing guidelines covering all aspects of contractor-activities. CVRD
has appointed a full-time environmental officer to work with Government
environmental agencies in establishing and implementing work programs and to
coordinate the work of internal environmental commissions (CIMAs) located at
the Project sites. A mine environmental officer has been appointed and a
port environmental officer is under active recruitment (who would be jointly
responsible for environmental aspects related to the railway). In planning
its environmental program for the Project, CVRD has made use of its
environmental experience from the construction of Tubarao port, the Itabira
mines and 550 km of connecting railroad in the south. Its work has been
serious and comprehensive. In view of the importance of its planned program,
CVRD would (i) maintain the existence of its independent environmental
advisory group (GEAMAM), with staff, functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) cause at least two GEAMAM site inspections to
be made annually in the years 1982 through 1985 and one such inspection
annually thereafter; and (iii) cause a report to be prepared following each
GEAMAM site visit, in scope and content satisfactory to the Bank, and after
review by CVRD, furnish such report to the Bank (Section 3.10(a), (b) and
(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). CVRD would further maintain the
organizational arrangements and staffing presently in place or planned for
environmental control activities, including its CIMA at the mine and port
sites, with staff and functions satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.10(d) of
the draft Loan Agreement). Government and CVRD would carry out work programs
related to the environment of the Project (including environmental zoning,
ecological stations, setting aside of conservation tracts, establishment of
buffer zones, biotic inventories, and other areas of environmental
protection), according to a timetable satisfactory to the Bank. Such work
programs would be furnished to the Bank, for approval, by September 30, 1982
(Section 3.10(e) of the draft Loan Agreement; Section 3.10 of the draft
Guarantee Agreement). Finally, CVRD would carry out a pollution control
program, according to a timetable satisfactory to the Bank. The pollution
control program would be furnished to the Bank, for approval, by December 31,
1982 (Section 3.10(f) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 15 -
Amerindian Protection
54.       An estimated 4,535 Amerindians live in the area of influence of the
Carajas Project, within a radius of 100 km from the mine and railway. Four
reiserves are most immediately affected by the Project: the Xikrin-Kayapo
(247 in population), in the vicinity of the mining complex; and the Mae Maria
(162 population), Caru (118 population) and Pindare (316 population) reserves
along the railway alignment. In addition, about 40-50 Guaja Indians live in
th(e vicinity of the Carajas railway close to and within the Caru reserve.
There is no resettlement of Amerindians required as a result of the Project.
55.       In anticipation of an accelerated economic development as a conse-
quence of the Carajas Project, FUNAI 4/ has agreed with CVRD on a Carajas
Amerindian sub-project to upgrade its services to the Carajas area. It is
the sub-project's objective to minimize potential adverse impacts by under-
taking preventive measures and by creating more viable conditions within the
Amerindian reserves. The sub-project stresses measures to protect Amerindian
lands, and to provide health care, overall FUNAI assistance in staff, com-
munications, and transport at the Indian posts, technical assistance and
funding for economic development projects, and education. It further
proposes measures to strengthen the outreach operations of FUNAI's second
Regional Delegacia's "Ajudancia" in Maraba/Para and of its sixth Regional
Delegacia in Sao Luis/Maranhao. In its first year, the sub-project would
concentrate in particular on the four reserves mentioned above which are
already being affected by the Carajas mining and railroad construction
works. Under the proposed loan, (i) the Government would agree to carry out,
through FUNAI, a special program satisfactory to the Bank, for the protection
of and assistance to the Amerindian populations in the area of influence of
the Carajas project, and would take all further measures necessary for
protecting the interests of such populations; (ii) CVRD and FUNAI have
entered into a convenio, satisfactory to the Bank, for the funding and
execution of such special program; (iii) CVRD would take all appropriate
measures to assist FUNAI to carry out the special program; (iv) FUNAI and
CVRD would furnish to the Bank periodic reports on the status of such
Amerindian populations and on the execution of the special program, and would
afford the Bank's staff reasonable access to such populations and to any
information which the Bank may reasonably require regarding the execution of
the special program and regarding other measures being taken for the
protection of the interests of such populations; and (v) FUNAI would afford
the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment, annually, on its following
year's program for the protection of and assistance to the Amerindian
population in the area of influence of the Project (Section 3.11 of the draft
Loan Agreement; Section 3.05 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Other Infrastructure
56.       The Serra dos Carajas is surrounded by two major river basins, the
Tocantins/Araguaia basin and the Xingu basin, with a combined hydroelectrical
potential of about 16,000 MW 5/ firm energy. ELETRONORTE is now construct-
ing the Tucurui hydroelectric power plant in the Tocantins River. Planned
4/ Fundaqao Nacional do Indio, Brazil's national Indian protection agency.
5/ Estimate by ELETROBRAS.



- 16 -
final installed capacity is about 8,000 MW. The first unit of 330 MW will
start up in 1983, and by 1985 installed capacity is planned to be 2,310 MW.
The Carajas Mine substation (2 X 90 MVA) will be connected through a 180-km,
230-kV transmission line with the ELETRONORTE/CHESF substation in Maraba.
Land clearing and construction of this line has started. The Government
would ensure provision of adequate and timely power supply to the project
(Section 3.09 of the draft Loan Agreement; Section 3.06 of the draft
Guarantee Agreement). The south tailings dam (completed in early 1982) will
provide for all water requirements during construction, and initial
industrial requirements, as well as potable water, up to 1990. Ample water
supply will not constitute a problem in the mining area. Water requirements
for the port area (ore terminal, railroad yard, rescreening plant, industrial
buildings, ships) will be met by drilling seven deep wells in the terminal
area. A 200-km road between the Carajas townsite and Maraba, where it
interconnects with the Transamazonian Highway, is being upgraded to a 7-m
wide paved road. Along this road, about 10 km from the Carajas townsite, a
new airport has been completed, with a runway of 2,000 meters which can
accommodate Boeing 727 aircraft.
Training
57.       The Project provides for technical training of about 4,500
employees through basic training, improvement courses, specialization courses
and special training. In addition, apprenticeships will be provided for
about 740 students (from technical high schools, technical colleges, and
SENAI 6/ programs), and about 670 scholarships will be awarded to students
in the SENAI programs. On-the-job training will be conducted during the con-
struction phase in parallel with classroom training whenever possible. CVRD
has developed extensive experience in training at five existing training
centers for its southern operations. The training program has been well
prepared and no implementation problems are foreseen. The preparation of
employees for start-up of operations at Carajas will be further facilitated
by CVRD plans to transfer a maximum of 15% of the required labor force from
its southern operations.
Project Implementation
58.       CVRD's Planning and Cost Control Department, reporting to the
Carajas Project Director in Rio de Janeiro, has prepared detailed "critical
path" diagrams for each of the mine, railroad, port and townsites components
of the Project. The diagrams cover all activities which are required to
complete the 15, 25 and 35 million tpy production/export phases of the
Project by June 30, 1985; December 31, 1985; and September 30, 1986 respec-
tively.
59.       Project management will be carried out by CVRD assisted by manage-
ment contractors and technical specialists. The proposed management arrange-
ments are based on a three-month study carried out for CVRD in May 1981 by
International Engineering, S.A. (IESA), and a subsequent detailed review by
the Bank, and are considered to be satisfactory. In September 1981, CVRD's
6/ SENAI is the National Service for Industrial Training with training units
in Belem, Maraba and Sao Luis.



- 17 -
Bcard of Directors decided on the creation of a Steering Committee to
(i) carry out periodic reviews of the Carajas Project particularly with
respect to implementation, costs and difficulties encountered or expected;
(ii) undertake periodic reviews of operational targets and time limits
established by SUCAR; and (iii) review and take decisions on major issues
regarding the Project. The proper composition and functioning of this
Committee is of critical importance to the Project. CVRD would, therefore,
maintain the existence of its Steering Committee, under the chairmanship of
CVRD's Director-Vice President. The Steering Committee would meet at least
once every three months, and minutes of such meetings would be prepared and
furnished to the Bank within 30 days of any such meeting (Section 3.05(b) of
the draft Loan Agreement).
60.       CVRD has fully staffed and mobilized its project superintendency
(SUCAR) with a total of 746 persons. SUCAR is headquartered in Rio de
Jcneiro and has construction site offices at Carajas and Sao Luis. The SUCAR
team has been managing the initial project works for a period of about
2 years and has established appropriate lines of interface with CVRD oper-
ations in the Southern System and with other CVRD superintendencies in its
control of Project work. CVRD has awarded management contracts to six firms
=-- five to provide on-site management and supervision services in the major
construction areas, and one to provide general support in procurement. The
management contracts proposed by the firms were reviewed by the Bank prior to
award and are satisfactory. In order to strengthen certain critical areas of
CVRD's management team, CVRD and the Bank have agreed on the appointment of
16 technical specialist consultants to be recruited locally and interna-
tionally, having qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank
(Section 3.05(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). Such assistance would com-
prise: (i) 4 specialists in the Project Director's office to assist on mine,
railway, port and townsite works; (ii) 4 specialists in CVRD's Rio de Janeiro
headquarters to assist on procurement, contracts, administration, planning
and cost control; (iii) 4 specialists in the Sao Luis construction office to
assist on port construction, railway road bed preparation, railway track
laying, and planning and cost control; and (iv) 4 specialists in the Serra
Norte construction office to assist on mine and townsite construction, oper-
ation, planning and cost control and security. The Bank has reviewed and
approved terms of reference for these consultants. It is envisaged that the
Bank loan would finance 480 man-months of technical assistance required at an
average cost of US$16,000 per man-month, including travel and subsistence.
The total cost of technical assistance is estimated to be US$9.6 million.
Iron Ore Market
61.       In the Bank's analysis, demand for iron ore in the market economy
countries has been projected based on two alternative steel production growth
scenarios that cover the range of reasonable expectations.  The two scenarios
assume growth in steel production in the market economies at 1.8% p.a. and
2.7% p.a., respectively. Growth is expected to be more rapid in developing
countries (4.9% to 6.3% p.a.) than in industrialized countries (1.0% to
1.8% p.a.) which still account for over three quarters of total steel
consumption. The analysis of iron ore demand based on these two scenarios
indicates that by the second half of the 1980s the iron ore market will be
either approximately in balance (with a surplus of potential iron supply of
less than 2% of iron ore demand in the low steel-growth scenario) or, under



- 18 -
the high steel-growth scenario, face a growing supply deficit to reach over
10% of iron ore demand in 1990, unless new mining capacity beyond that under
construction or presently planned were to come on stream, in addition to
increases in effective operating rates in existing mines.  In any case, even
under the low steel-growth scenario, any iron ore surplus will have dis-
appeared by the late 1980s.
62.       The Carajas iron ore development has advantages over other poten-
tial new developments which may or may not materialize in the 1980s, having a
high-grade ore with about 66% Fe, and requiring no concentration. Its large,
easily mineable deposits have a long-term potential of at least 50 years
based on presently measured reserves of 2.6 billion tons of ore (and an
extraction rate of 50 million tpy), and its operating costs are relatively
low.
63.       CVRD has adopted an aggressive marketing strategy, and has success-
fully obtained advance commitments for purchase of 24.7 million tpy of
Carajas ore (including 9.3 million tpy presently under contract from its
southern operations and switched to Carajas). CVRD is planning to undertake
a second-stage marketing effort within the next two years, 3-4 years prior to
the availability of the incremental ore (10 million tpy). In light of the
forecast strengthening of the market, it is reasonable to expect that CVRD
will market the balance successfully.
Project Costs and Financing Requirements
64.       The financing requirements for the Carajas Iron Ore Project
(including contingencies and interest during construction) are estimated at
US$4,527 million, 7/ of which US$1,490 million, or 33% is in foreign
exchange. The Project will be exempt from all import and customs duties
during construction, as provided for in Declaration No. 01/81 of August 4,
1981, by the Executive Secretariat of the Grande Carajas Program. A summary
of project costs is given in the loan and project summary at page (ii) at the
beginning of this report. Physical contingency allowances average 12.5% of
total base cost for 1982-88; 12% for the mine, 13% for the railroad, 12% for
the port, 18% for the townsites and 10% for engineering, pre-operational
expenses, training and project management. Price escalation was calculated
on the base cost plus physical contingency estimates in line with the most
recent Bank assumptions on Brazilian and international inflationary
trends. 8/
7/ Excluding US$400 million in additional "contingency financing (see
para. 66).
8/   Brazilian inflation has been assumed at 80% in 1982, 60% in 1983, 50% in
1984 and 40% in 1985, 1986 and 1987. International inflation has been
assumed at 8% in 1982, 8% in 1983, 7.5% in 1984, 7.0% in 1985 and 6% in
1986 and 1987.



- 19 -
65.       The capital cost estimates were prepared by CVRD with assistance
from IESA. The original estimates as of February 1981 were updated by CVRD
in detail during January and February 1982 and are expressed in end-1981
terns. An extensive review, including: (i) recalculation of unit costs for
civ:Ll works; (ii) update of labor, fuel and construction material costs;
(ii-L) update of construction equipment operating costs; and (iv) review of
domestic transportation as well as sea freight costs, was carried out, taking
into account the experience available from other construction sites in
operation during 1981. The estimates take into consideration the contract
expenditures which had already been made and/or committed (69% of civil
works, 12% of goods, 100% of management services and 100% of inspection
services) at the time of the review.
Financing Plan
66.       For purposes of the financing plan, a contingency financing reserve
in an amount of US$400 million over and above the physical and price contin-
gencies will be contracted, bringing the total project and contingency finan-
cing to US$4,926.6 million. Such contingency financing reserve, which has
not been included in CVRD's financial projections, represents about 10% of
Project costs, and would provide a reasonable safety margin against adverse
developments. Excluding the contingency financing, local funds account for
67% of total financing and foreign funds for 33%, in line with local and
foreign capital costs. Out of total debt financing of US$2,706 million,
about US$525 million or 19% would be tied financing, and US$2,181 million or
81% would be untied financing. A summary of the financing plan appears in
the loan and project summary at p. (iii).
Debt Financing
67.       The proposed Bank loan to CVRD would total US$304.5 million equiv-
alent (including a 1.5% front-end fee of US$4.5 million), carry an interest
rate of 11.6%, plus a guarantee fee of 1.2%, for an effective interest rate
of 12.8%, and have standard country terms, i.e., 15 years maturity including
3 years of grace.
68.       Untied Japanese financing for the Project would total US$495
million equivalent, in Japanese yen, of which US$270 million would be from
comamercial banks and US$225 million from Government institutions. The
package would consist of four different financial instruments:
(a) An "import" loan of US$250 million equivalent would be made by
Nippon Carajas Iron Ore. Ltd., which has been established by the
seven Japanese steel mills that have contracted to buy Carajas iron
ore. The Company would borrow the funds from the Export-Import
Bank of Japan (70%) and Japanese commercial banks (30%) and would
relend the proceeds to CVRD;
(b) In addition to its participation in the import loan, the
Export-Import Bank of Japan would make a direct loan of US$50
million equivalent to CVRD;



- 20 -
(c) The Bank of Tokyo would syndicate a yen loan of US$150 million
equivalent, to be made available in 2-3 tranches with separate
terms and conditions; and
(d)  The fourth element in the Japanese financing package would be a
private placement of yen bonds by CVRD, in an amount of US$45.4
million.
69.       The EC Commission has approved a credit line of up to US$600
million to be raised by the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) in the
European capital markets and relent to CVRD at cost (i.e., on the same terms
and conditions as the ECSC itself can raise the funds), with the requirement
of a bank guarantee. The financing would be untied. For purposes of the
financing plan, it is assumed that US$400 million of the ECSC line of credit
would be drawn down for project financing and US$200 million would constitute
50% of the contingency financing reserve (para. 66). The US$400 million is
expected to be drawn down in three tranches with separate terms and
conditions.
70.       Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) has approved financing for the
Project of DM 300 million (US$130 million equivalent), contingent on receipt
of a loan guarantee by the German Government. KfW expects to receive such
guarantee for between 80% and 90% of its loan from the German Government, and
possibly for an additional 10% from German commercial banks. A final
decision on the German Government guarantee for the KfW loan is expected by
September 1982. In the event that the German Government and Brazilian
Government should fail to agree on the conditions for such a guarantee, the
proposed KfW loan would be replaced with commercial bank financing. CVRD
should have no difficulty in raising such financing, although on conditions
somewhat less favorable than KfW's.
71.       In addition to the above loans, CVRD intends to seek export finan-
cing of US$129 million equivalent for equipment to be procured from the U.S.,
Europe, and Japan. The Export-Import Bank of the U.S. has already extended
to CVRD a commitment of US$58 million. Export credits from Europe and Japan,
totalling US$70.5 million, will be sought during tendering. Considering the
type of procurement items (crawler tractors, shovels, bucket-wheel
reclaimers, railroad signaling equipment) availability of export financing
should pose no difficulty.
72.       CVRD intends to contract untied commercial loans of US$200 million
under co-financing arrangements with the Bank as additional contingency
financing over and above the ECSC contingency financing. It would be a con-
dition of effectiveness of the Bank loan that the proposed Japanese import
loan (US$250 million), the proposed Japanese EXIM direct loan (US$50 mil-
lion), the proposed yen syndication (US$150 million), the proposed ECSC
credit line (up to US$600 million, including US$200 million contingency
financing), and the proposed KfW loan (DM 300 million), would also be
effective (Section 7.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
73.       Brazilian debt financing would be provided by BNDE (US$697 mil-
lion), FINAME (US$321 million), Banco da Amazonia (US$75 million), and CVRD



- 21 -
convertible debentures (US$250 million, of which US;125 million are assumed
to be converted into common and preferred shares). _
Equity Financing
74.       Equity financing would be provided by CVRD internal cash generation
(US$1,438 million, of which US$524 million or 36% has already been provided
through 1981), CVRD convertible debentures (US$125 million) and reinvested
Government dividends (US$257 million).
Procurement and Disbursement
75.       Bank-financed equipment, machinery and erection services, totalling
an estimated US$265.4 million including contingencies, will be procured
through ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines, and consist mainly of railway
track materials, mobile equipment, fenders and steelcord conveyor belt for
the mine and the port. Bidding documents for railway cross-ties and fenders
have been reviewed by the Bank, and invitations to bid for the first 2
packages -- consisting of 290,000 ties each -- have been issued. Qualifying
domestic suppliers/manufacturers would be afforded a preference in bid-
evaluation of 15% or the import tax whichever is lower. Import approval by
CACEX has been obtained for all items to be financed by the Bank. Partly
Bank-financed civil works, comprising the construction of major mine service
facilities, residential buildings in the Carajas townsite, and community
service facilities (hotel, supermarkets, hospital, cinema/theater, bus
station, etc.) and totaling US$75 million equivalent including contingencies,
would be procured through ICB in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
Under this category, the Bank would finance up to US$22.5 million, represent-
ing the estimated foreign component of these works. The tender documents
have been reviewed and approved by the Bank. In addition, the Bank would
finance up to US$12.1 million in technical assistance which would be
contracted on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. It is expected
that of the items to be financed by the Bank, about US$110 million (or 37% of
the Bank loan) would be for contracts awarded to local suppliers. The
procurement arrangements for non-Bank-financed goods and works for the
project have been reviewed and found to be satisfactory.
CVRD's Financial Position
76.       CVRD's consolidated financial projections indicate that CVRD may be
expected to maintain its present sound financial position throughout the
Carajas construction and start-up period. The main factors contributing to
CVRD's satisfactory financial prospects through 1987 are: (a) substantial
price increases obtained in 1982, (b) sales volume increases from about 67 to
about 80 million tpy between 1982 and 1984; and (c) during the Carajas
start-up period from 1985-87, the sale of about 18 million tons of ore from
Minas Gerais, to supplement about 57 million tons of ore to be produced in
those years at Carajas, so as to ensure delivery in those years of the full
75 million tons of ore for which advance commitments have been signed (cee
'9/ The conversion formula is considered to be an attractive one for
debenture holders (conversion price equals 90% of average traded price
during thirty trading days previous to exercise of conversion option),
and the assumption of 50% conversion is considered reasonable.



- 22 -
para. 63). CVRD's financial ratios remain satisfactory throughout the fore-
cast period (through 1990).  The debt/equity ratio is projected not to exceed
49:51, and the debt service coverage ratio not to drop below 2.8.  The
current ratio is projected to be 1.3 or higher.
Financial Covenants
77.        To ensure the necessary financing for the Project in a sound
manner, the Government and CVRD would agree with the Bank as follows:
(a) CVRD would provide, on a timely basis, all funds needed to cover
expenditures required for the project, including cost overruns,
with not more than 70% of project expenditures to be made from
debt sources (Section 3.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement);
(b) Until completion of the project, CVRD would prepare and furnish to
the Government and the Bank annually by August 31 of each year a
five-year forecast of its sources and uses of funds. Government
and CVRD would consult with the Bank annually by September 30 of
each year regarding the next year's requirements and the sources
from which such requirements are to be met (Section 5.09 of the
draft Loan Agreement; Section 3.09 of the draft Guarantee
Agreement);
(c) Government would guarantee the provision to CVRD of all funds
necessary to complete the project, with not less than 60% of cost
overrun financing to be in the form of equity financing (Section
2.02 ot t;e draft Guarantee Agreement-);
(d) CVRD would issue convertible debentures in the Brazilian capital
market in an aggregate amount of at least US$172 million
equivalent, of which about US$86 million to be issued in 1982 and
the balance in 1983; Government would take all necessary steps to
enable CVRD to issue these debentures (Section 3.01(b) of the draft
Loan Agreement and Section 3.02(b) of the draft Guarantee
Agreement); 10/
(e) Of the US$200 million equivalent contingency financing to be
contracted by CVRD from commercial banks (see para. 72), at least
US$100 million equivalent would be obtained by December 31, 1982
and the balance of December 31, 1983 (Section 3.01(b) of the draft
Loan Agreement); and
(f) Government would reinvest in CVRD all dividends paid or accrued to
the Government as shareholder of CVRD in the years 1982 through
1984 (Section 3.08 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
78.        To reduce the risk that other competing investments might pose to
the project, CVRD would agree that until project completion, unless the Bank
otherwise agrees, CVRD's non-Carajas related investments and equity
10/ A first issue of convertible debentures of around US$78 million was made
in 1981; the three issues would therefore total US$250 million
equivalent.



- 23 -
contributions to subsidiaries and associated companies, would not exceed, by
more than US$30 million in the aggregate in any one year though 1985 and not
more than US$50 million in the aggregate in any one year thereafter, the
amounts included in CVRD's investment program, which has been discussed and
agreed upon (Section 5.08 of the draft Loan Agreement). In addition, to
enisure maintenance of a sound financial position during project
implementation and thereafter, CVRD would agree as follows:
(a) CVRD would maintain at all times a debt-equity ratio not greater
than 55:45 (Section 5.06 of the draft Loan Agreement);
(b) CVRD would maintain at all times a current ratio of not less than
1.1:1 on an unconsolidated basis and not less than 1.2:1 on a
consolidated basis (Section 5.05 of the draft Loan Agreement);
(c) CVRD would not incur any new debt with an original maturity of mDre
than one year unless its financial projections, acceptable to the
Bank, show that its debt service coverage will be at least 1.5:1
including the debt to be contracted (Section 5.04 of the draft Loan
Agreement); and
(d) CVRD would furnish to the Bank annually accounts and financial
statements (on an consolidated and consolidated basis) audited by
independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank, within four months
of the end of each fiscal year (Section 5.02 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Economic and Financial Benefits
79.       The project is an important element in the Government's policy
objective to improve Brazil's balance of payments through increased exports
and foreign exchange earnings. The project would contribute significantly to
Brazil's foreign exchange earnings since the entire project output is planned
to be exported while costs are largely in local currency. Incremental
foreign exchange benefits of the project have been calculated and average
about US$630 million per annum in 1982 dollars over the next 30 years up to
2015. The annual foreign exchange balance will become positive in 1985 and
the cumulative balance in 1988. The cumulative foreign exchange benefit of
the project over 30 years (up to the year 2015) is about US$20 billion, which
would increase to US$27 billion assuming a production and sales expansion to
50 million tpy in 1993. The assumption that Carajas sales will expand to
5C million tpy is reasonable given (i) expectations on increasing market
strength in the 1990's and the good marketability of Carajas ore, and
(ii) project engineering design which allows for the production expansion
with a relatively small incremental investment (about US$360 million or 11%
of the original base cost estimate).
80.       The incremental economic rate of return of the 35 million tpy
project, based on "with" Carajas and "without" Carajas scenarios, has been
calculated at 13%, which is satisfactory for new mining projects where large
capital investments and long lead times to development are required. The
return includes as project costs all capital expenditures made by CVRD start-
in.g in 1977. At a production and sales level of 50 million tpy starting in
1993 as can be reasonably assumed, the economic rate of return would increase



- 24 -
to around 15%. The rate of return calculations assume shadow pricing of
foreign exchange costs and benefits by 20% to reflect foreign trade distor-
tions caused by import tariffs, export taxes and subsidies, as well as other
forms of trade restrictions and incentives. The actual returns to the
Brazilian economy are likely to be considerably higher, as the above calcula-
tions exclude from the benefit stream (a) the effects of using the transport
infrastructure for non-iron minerals, which are known to exist but can only
be quantified very imperfectly at this time, and (b) regional development
effects derived from the transport facilities.
Sensitivity Analysis
81.       If one assumed that simultaneously capital costs were to increase
by 10%, sales revenues to decrease by 10% through 1989, operating costs to
increase by 10% through 1989, and the project delayed by one year, the
incremental economic rate of return for 35 million tpy would decline to
around 11%. It is considered unlikely that this could occur, however. The
probability of persistent oversupply during the five years after start-up is
considered to be low. A 10% increase in operating costs is unlikely, given
CVRD's extensive experience in its existing operations, from which the base
operating cost parameters have been derived. A 10% increase in capital cost
cannot be excluded, but is not expected, because capital cost estimates have
been carefully prepared and in light of the sizeable amount of expenditures
and contract commitments made as of the end of 1981 (para. 65). Project
delays of a full year or more are also unlikely in view of (i) the high
degree of completion of the major and more difficult earthworks, (ii) CVRD's
current implementation plans which allow for a reduction in activities during
the rainy seasons, (iii) the elaborate planning and control procedures that
'-ave been instituted, and (iv) the well-staffed and experienced project
management organization.
Financial Rate of Return
82.       The financial rate of return on the project is around 11% assuming
a sales volume of 35 million tpy over 30 years. If one assumes an increase
in sales volume to 50 million tpy by 1993, the financial rate of return
increases to around 12%.
Project Risks
83.       The technical risks to the project are small.  Each component --
mine, railroad and port -- is relatively straightforward in terms of tech-
nical design, construction and operation, and the interfaces between compo-
nents have been taken adequately into account in project management and on-
going operating arrangements. The current oversupply of the iron ore market
is of concern, however, and while there is reasonable expectation by the Bank
and various experts that the market should be in equilibrium by the time
Carajas comes on stream (para. 61), it cannot be excluded that some over-
supply may persist a year or two beyond the start of Carajas production in
1985. Under the circumstances, it must be considered possible that prices
may not rise in real terms beginning in 1986 as has been assumed (no real
price increases are assumed until 1986, but from 1986-90 real prices are
expected to increase by 1.5% p.a.) and that there may be reductions in CVRD
sales volumes in individual years, posing financial risk to the project.



- 25 -
However, market experts expect price increases ranging up to 2% p.a. through
1985, and of greater percentages thereafter as the market strengthens.
Carajas is not expected to depress the general level of iron ore prices when
the project comes fully on stream in 1988, as the project production will
comprise about 7.5% of estimated traded ore and is not expected to create a
market surplus. Should Carajas or any one of the other 8 envisaged new
projects elsewhere in the world not go forward for any reason, it is expected
that replacement would be made from capacity increases in certain existing
mines where, with limited capital investment and 1-3 years' lead time,
production increases could be obtained.
84.       The principal financial risk facing the project is the possibility
of insufficient or untimely availability of internally generated cash for
equity financing to complete the project. Internally generated cash may not
be available, because (i) it has not materialized; or (ii) Carajas require-
ments cannot be met because of competing other CVRD investments. To reduce
the risk of the first case, equity contributions from internally generated
caLsh have been kept to a minimum during the crucial years 1982-84. They
total US$460 million from 1982-84, representing 10% of projected internal
catsh generation in 1982, 25% in 1983, and 18% in 1984. Other measures taken
to help CVRD cope with insufficient cash generation are (i) the contracting
of US$400 million of contingency financing (para. 66); (ii) the annual review
of expenditures and revenues through project completion, which would permit
early identification of cash shortfalls (para. 77); and (iii) the Government
cost overrun guarantee (para. 77). To reduce the risk of the second case,
Bank approval for non-Carajas investments has been agreed if these exceed by
US$30 million in any one year through 1985 and by US$50 million in any one
year thereafter through project completion the amounts previously agreed upon
(para. 78).
85.       Other risks to the project are the risk of capital cost overruns
and delays in project completion, which, particularly if they occurred in
combination, could bring the economic rate of return down to below the esti-
mated opportunity cost of capital. However, these risks are minimized
biecause of the capability and experience of the project sponsor and the
advanced status of project preparation/implementation. The large size of the
Carajas deposits and consequent long mine life, and the quality of the
deposits, also minimize the down-side risks of this project compared to other
mines. Finally the risk of the project return falling below the opportunity
cost of capital is far less if one assumes a 50 million tpy case which is
considered reasonable, or if a part of the cost of the infrastructure
investment is allocated to other projects which will be developed in the
area.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
86.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Companhia Vale do Rio
Doce S.A., the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Federative Republic of
Brazil and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.



- 26 -
87.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of the
Annex III. A special condition of effectiveness is the effectiveness of the
principal other external loans for the project (para. 72).
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
88.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
89.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
By Munir P. Benjenk
Attachments
July 22, 1982
Washington, D. C.



- 27 -                                             ANNEX I
Pa.e I  of  5
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE,ACES
LAhb ARLA (THOUSAND SlO. E. )                                                         - MDST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
IOIAL           8512.0                                   MUST RECENI             MIDDLE INCGME             MIDDLE INCUME
Al,RICULTURAL    2077.2               1960  /b    1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
,NP PER  LAF1IA (US$)                  320.0        570.0    1780.0 *                  1616.2                    2609.1
ENERGY LUhSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS UF COAL EQUIVALENT)      39Z.1        565.0    1061.5                    1324.1                     2368.4
PUPULATIUN AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATIUN, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 71513.0       95322.0  116539.0 *
UIJRAN POPULATION (PERLENT OF TOTAL) 46.1          55.9      64.1                     64.2                       53.2
PUPU.LATlUN PRUJECTIUNS
PUPULATlON IN YEAK 2U00  (MILLIONS)                       176.5
STATIONARY PVPULATIUO  (MILLIUNS)                         261.0
YEAR STATIUNARY POPULATlON 1S REACHED                    2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         8.4         11.2       13.7                     34.3                       80.6
PERK SQ. KM. AG.RICULTURAL LAND    44.1         50.5       55.1                     94.5                      133.9
UOPULATIUN AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
U-14 YgS.                          43.6         42.7       41.5                     40.7                       30.1
15-b4 YRS.                          53.8         54.3       55.1                     55.3                       61.5
65 YVS. AND A8OVE                    2.6          3.0        3.4                      4.0                        8.3
POPULATIUN (,KRWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               3.0          2.9        2.2                      2.4                        1.5
URdAN                               5.5          4.8        3.8                      3.7                        3.1
CKUDE BIKTH KATS. (PER THOUSAND)      42.5        37.0       29.4                      31.4                      22.9
CRUDE DEATH KATE (PER THOUSAND)       12.9        10.5        8.7                      8.4                        9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTIUN RATE                3.0         2.6        2.0                      2.3                        1.6
FAMiLY PLANNING
AGCCEOIURS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..       111.0      203.6
USERS (PERCENI OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           1.6
FOOD AND NUIR1Tl1N
INDEX UF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAYITA (1969-71-100)           89.0        102.0      114.0                    108.3                      119.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY UF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   101.0        104.0      107.2                    107.6                      125.7
PRUTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           61.0         62.0       62.7                     65.8                       92.5
oP WHIlH ANIMAL AND PULSE        34.0         34.0       35.1                     34.0                       39.7
LhILD (AGEb 1-4) MURTALITY RATE       17.3        12.0        8.3                      7.6                        3.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    54.7          59.1       62.7                     64.1                       68.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           128.0           ..       92.0                     70.9   '                   25.2
ACCESS TU SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         56.3       77.1                     65.7
URBAN                                 ..        77.7       88.8                     79.7
RURAL                                 ..        29.0       56.8                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF PUPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         59.9       64.8                     59.9
URBAN                                 *         86.1       83.7                     75. 7
RURAL                                 ..        26.5       31.7                     30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2561.2       2123.8    1700.0                    1728.2                     973.3
POPULATIUN PER NURSING PERSON      2772.1       2992.3         ..                   1288.2                     896.6
POPULATIUN PER HOSPITAL BED
TUTAL                             307.0        269.0      247.7                    471.2                     262.3
URBAN                             325.6        322.6         ..                    558.0                     191.8
RURAL                                 ..          ..
ADMISSIUNS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         18.0         ..                       ..                       18.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE UF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.1          4.8        4.9
URBAN                                ..          4.6        4.7
KURAL                                 ..         5.2        5.3
AVERAGE NU11BER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          1.1
URBAN                                 ..         1.0
RURAL                                 ..         1.2         ..
ACCESS TU ELECTRlCITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS )
TOTAL                               38.7        47.6       63.0
URBAN                                 ..        75.6       84.9
RURAL                                 *-         8.4       19.2



- 28 -                                       ANNEX I
Pxge 2 of 5
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BRAZIL                       REFERENCE GR017PS (WEIGHTED AVERA9jS
- NCDST RECFNT ESTIMATE)
i1ST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOTE           MIDDLE IICCHE
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIKATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN          EULOPE
EDUICATIQN                                                                                   - 
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                95.0        125.0      88.0/c                  101.7                    105.9
MALE                 97.0        125.0      87.07W                 103.0                     109.6
FEMALE               93.0       125.0       88.07o                 101.5                     102.2
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                11.0         26.0      24.0/c                   35.3                     66.3
KALE                 11.0        26.0       22.07W                  34.9                      73.2
FEMALE               10.0        26.0      26.07W                   35.6                      59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY) 19.0          17.0      47.0/c,d                 30.1                     28.4
PUPIL-TEAChRR RATIO
PRLMARY                           33.0         28.0      22.0/e                   29.6                     26.8
SECONDARY                         13.0         13.0      13.07T                   15.7                     23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       61.0         66.2      75.7                     80.0                     75.4
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         7.0         24.4      53.6                    42.6                      83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        66.4        i23.8     155.0                   215.0                     181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        16.8         64.0      97.9                    89.0                     131.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 54.0         37.0      45.2                     62.8                    123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0          1.9       1.9                      3.2                      5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   22869.1       30078.5   36718.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  17.5         20.4      22.6                    22.6                      32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             51.9         45.6      39.8                     35.0                     34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                14.8         18.3      21.8                    23.2                      28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                32.0        31.6      31.5                     31.8                     42.3
MALE                                 52.7        50.3      48.9                    49.0                      56.5
FEMALE                              11.2         12.8      14.2                    14.6                      28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.4         1.4       1.4                      1.4                      0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED RY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  60.0        63.5       62.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.8          3.2       2.8
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10.8         9.0        9.4
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED A3SOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..      150.0                   187.6
ESTLMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    465.0                     513.9
RURAL                               ''           '      332.0                   362.2                     385.1
ESTIMATED POPnLATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                . .         ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages tor each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   beginning 1973 primary and secondary educations cover age groups 7-14 and 15-17 instead of 7-10 and 11-17
in earlier years; therefore most recent estimates are not ccnparable with earlier data;  /d 1974;  /e 1975.
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates shown in the
1981 World Atlas are US$2,050 (at 1978-80 prices) and 119 billion.
April 14, 1982



- 29-                                                                             ANNEX I
pqoof 5
DEPXITITOgS 0F 30CIAl, MIS)1T80R
ttoat   Aibogi  hedat  ae   eaners aures  eural.y judged thu sea  uthoritati- os4teiibhi. it should  ..I  be  oe.                  htte   e    e   etit
tatiooiir'oeearals beaus,  f thulack  f etadardttd deftiattiu   ted tutoopta use  by diffarsat cet-tria  itcleta    h    ua.Tudefu    ae
ob fss, 1sfo   t -dscieb rdraofeunuud,  t iat  teee,ce  cerosrsscatet  ajr  tfuTssebuesadenrit
of thlob.    o    cuty(eop   fo'upalSrlusOil  apra s" goup ehs   "Niddle  1ape   Ntrth  flriuated W Mdls &.tes' is  hsshns                                        fsrss
socco-cultrel afftttces)    to'he rsfo-   group dst- h  aeoe  sea purtlutits esihcsd erb itetc es     fortc    aiou   adsetel   h
sjetyof ohsc trt tagrubsdoefor that btdic-To.  Since the o-esrgs nf ctneeseoi  tetdieosdspc c  th - se                                                         lhity  of  at
Tota  - T.cl1 suof.cs ceecopIsit    l_e ur             .od tela    I eatrsurue  etd  -urti) dtrided hy ciur, -apcIdI eae                                           f huapIa1 heds
for crPs, Poscrse  serkst sod kiltchI  gordse  ort  Ie fuller; 198dt.bulbltto  csetsre.  "~ . opies-rasatahiish                                             U--b.es   ersssly snffd
197# d.l.         by atInsti  on       '. phyicie.tstbl          blt petbug prietsliy  oustf-
GM' PfR CAPITA (US)) - GNP percris.           neesa   utn    aktpis,cl                                  dial. curs tee  totitcltd.   lural.hoeitle, bueser liniade11 hlt
culstd  byesescccuteto  totod a  kcrd Bath AtIu  (1977-79 heeLs)  1980                     sO   uoe   etuaerrrssul   tfe                     -y  hsos            but 1b
1970, ted 1979 dat.                                                                                   eeicL.tisset  nuse,sid 1fa  tIff. d bybit   fa  Iisptets
sod  ligYts pI    rii    u-rl  a   t ktyro,  ursu  cd g_raralslc-an  corel hsplttls  Go..sl te   -1te  hasp itl  sad  adical sadeaect
ertote) cc kioatee  cI oui  ucitisotPr.  cepite: 1960. i970. sod 1979                     cetc     ycaie             uytle.Il are  icildd osly utdsrtsel
data                                                                                                Ade1.issos-t  net=ltd-           -Tis  os   of edasaio.s tc or di-cheogs.
fece bbuptilsdivided hcby th.a-se of bIde.
POPL'I,ATION AND V11AI. STATISTICS
boilPcclttct.fti-Teor         .. obetde  - he of July 1; 1960. 1970, cod 1979
date.                                                                                            A-sss  is.o..       uehl  Iceosotbasbll-trl   rbat tedrua-
Ithue Pecltit(cret  fcoe1-hto  fIca   c  oelppoetc;AbushadcrtSd                                                              so     gcp  fittiuuesh   huslrigqutr
differec  dsftitie   o   eborsssy -c-                   osaailo   of daa                            tednbsiitoibese-s- A botdsror ld;tearot-ytthSruddL
asa   ooores : iSb1I-, 17,   al11  data                                                          cia-ilt     e  ..d  thoushol  foe  sAt isticld.peryeasu.   7
Poocatto  Prolstioc                                                                               etsesc    frrosyrrt   totsl. otb-t. td  -u1 -Atagua
totel popolut ie by uge and se   uo   li    ccic    o   stliyyee.Ot1it,esstni.  O_elitesocueecpreue   tetr   e
iced    sod  etaiclie 5ecceietoy  c-btltitig at 77.5yer.  Th. pars-                    Cont       d:olbl itg  _ttb eclstict Ito  lint5 qoresi  p utg
itch ourc .. 00,1   h-s ...sitoed ce fo chess. ticsoebotic f  _oeclny                      IUCATIfAS
uod Oset ii ity letecs for Foci tition  Puroe.                                      AdJuttd tueole-t sotios
ohs bIetheac   it shoal 1 tO hc dt-ohct. acdtlcteseeeutehs-etilenioful   Ie at rho priesry  i-                                                            -         I speotae  bf rspeotiIs
toits ost:nt    ' hi. is ItobI'ul   onY Ifcer fertilty eIt'. dscli-ts c                             priesyacci-g    .ooltou;no Ilyip    ldss  hibldts   aged b-li
tie  -splotec-c-          f  rtot   yr-odotIosc. sit  te-ch gAnesetdt                              years bit adjuaced fodIffeso   ig              de o  potter   .-ouIoc  foe
otosrpooti-eol  octocly.  The statioouey popoltict ele Iu                                 otes  cithub inrso  Iducco  eeeci- stt ear suosd 100 pe.rc-
rstieiod or cIt boalt  i th   prderdcuecsctc    i the Popolotioc                                   scoc  sIts our ,ls  e  beln cc  hore the official schol age.
to dr  fac 111Thaol theruer of Isdlo  of fe-til icy r..e to c-piec-Ootse ho-                                 tta,  al  cd   eas- Cdeped as shor; ssodtdsy
Iscsa  oy1..cou lo    ttlt   Th. I... else stut ....y pprul-i-o                             Petids..gcel.ccc a .  cc tnchso  trsiutgisrtit   u   ui
ciehu   rrcucs                                                                            usually  fi 12t 17 yours of age;  -oyrspodncscosaseses
toa re;iid-,,197 Pond 1979 .Isc      ..  ....t                                               locud   ro_ tol  teosri -,or dt - p-gee  sh-i-h  ipa,te  ado-
MD,e.  u  aeo Ieua  ed-Cooscuosfrurolus    a                                                   cl   ra   retac  of.dsctdsr  tutioio
orl;  161.197  ee   1970           A     ..  .     liI- boo..dcl-tuboeco-cter.adeIode-oo    tdasntidi
PcculetnlceA dos    ..eoccuc  (es-dttI  -  hildrco (0-ilysr Y-., nkgus(11-                              priesyad a.oryiol  dtdde  b    abesofesabt  as thu
64pccl,ac    Idtt  161 yste  ad cor) as Illr...etSts of .id-ys.s  pp-ccresp.d..                              lsl..
lro;1960, 1976, std 1979cle                                                                    Adult licaae  os-       oectt  - Litarers adults  lebto to red otd rite)
Pocolrior  eonchhuts(cc-n -. otl-..nt  geocithrte  of t-clst-                                    aspar--tg   of t-ta  adult po o Ise ge  iS years ted ft
yorPoruito.  foe 1951-61, 19tI-lI,  so  I970-79.
PouaioGc-th Race (ptrctnc  - ubto  - Atnual gt ht raeso  urbet rPc-                        CONstctpTlcr
luti... for 1950-60, i96D-7I, tod 1970-7S.PssatCr   preoon   coaoc  IPasecge  cees oceplIo   e
Crude tlh SIe (tee  tho.....di - -unoul hot births pre tbc....od df sid-yeer                      cassutglc  ta   ihIrsta   eidsceltes   ars   n
poruecio;  167,  071  or 9iOl  dticl                                                       et-ltaPy usbiclas
populecico; lOkO. 1971. sod 1979 data.becadcaets tc gne-l public pe  thootted of Peplatioc; s.-Ieso
Grost_     oucc                               ditAsas   ubeo  d-uabtees   oes  nil1 hou  to           licso        enr   tcutissdi  yeoes eh-  -egistrtiet of ..di.
tiltyrts   soiyIieyssertseding it 19bI, 1970, sad 1979.                                            sct  outiss ahIiisbd liete...ug.
PtlPioi-Acs"Irs  co-ul (thousan ds) -annel cuebse of acetosltlcaocsls   -huoe -                                         a- ulatios   - TVesirsfe boiat.t
cfkrkitrldcca   oe   upc,o  ceri,tde                       felp   ltoe   Zrge.                      _eee   ulc  e   bu d ropoletloo; socldea usloceusd  TV  -ncelre
Psaicy PI.otitoGates. lstOc  f eatied coest)     Paccrg    f   ried                                   iriooristd  it ytr   htruisre die o  TV st   a   tufc 
oI no_ _dIoce  _cse  pegoo.c tin  of  daily gurliire    teypr,dfn    sapraia
poblict.it droted pni-aily to recorlding gSs..    uses,            IIti  c...fdseed
PFWD AND1 STRITION                                                                                      ec be   ol   ifitspsesi  lut fourtiss a tusk.
101st of PolPooIo r   acc                 ii-11(-lls    tptopi   oul                                Asadta   tedts ret  poitta PIr TYr- Stead octe-                       ubeo
roono of oild food conodides -  Poducti-t s-iuds. seed sod feed en                           tickets tolId donug the yer  incluing   deest  co deGAsit cine
Iceeu  of  ca)  .hio  te  edihie ond  -cole -otrice  (.g.cte   o
teaor  00claded).  Agglretaf  produocioc of sech coortey Is based on                         FAOR tCt
--_otIscraeproduce  P,co COsg lbt.  lOu-I.  1970,dao  1979 deta.                                 rotI LAbor force  (Ithe-ds) - Eoon-elcaly utc  puete, iucldItg
Ore4-tit. t..-I, of oloit -lec-n  of  e                 _lr  ) - Coepoted fleo                      es  fre   c  oeeepioysd bths.conc                .cosi-ss,  -td-tt. 
ecrroytqioeIof cot foo  suPplie Inallais toli  cooctry P50  -pitt                                cositpopoltc   ialaas-Iiotoei  eafrIious1 cottis  s
pre day.  Aloutiobis  uple  rosceid_   sel .d...tsct   drductio, Isporte.. -se                   Otop-rblt; 1960,11970 sod 1979 dato.
enct   d o  chtcesistcc         ttsop teaN stc lode  -iI,al isd, std,Peslecn) - F l  labor forts us pstcstsg  of htel. laer forc.
q rit ire ceed ic food  procesiu.g  ted Iostr. ho diribori          R. hqire-               Aci-coltor   Lrroot  -to   foot  Itdaeig                   Illety, ht.tiag ta
o t ieeee   Getrd by PA0 hose d o- phyatitolcatt.i   d   foe os l!ui-                     flshiot us p--cra        de o  total labor f-rc; 19fit, l9ft ssd i979 data
ciy aol hbrutol    ., oc eiogeo _'teo_-ccl tpeact,bdy sights, ig                              oote(eee)-Ibahc  forc  In s.ieg.  cnsrotic,eafeitort
to1 set di-cihbtIoc  of.crlco,sd olo n11 p_cet fcro.e.et                                         ted sIecteiity. outer atd tes a  per--ns  of tota   blao  furce; 1960,
-cutold 1oce; 196h-ti, 1977, aol 1977 dtit.                                                     1970 eod 1979 data.
fecpceyj    f crtl-i (truss tee duo) - Protelo  ---ec  of per cepi-a                   Pritairtt   rret      oa,sl,tdfes-Ptiiaino
It upyo   od pro day.     I supply of tool Is deficed atobes   tie                      -tcic.,  e2tre _areceeutd us t-a   sal, sd 1ese   aorfree
qoirnoi   foroilocoerte  ettbiihed by tSDo prcide  c   tinpestgsc    ca,sl o.aepplnt  of nil,ag-srspcit;
alltoeof 1609 so   otlporcPer  ay d  it grs  of -tte  nod                                   1960, 1977. sr  1979 data.  Tbhsee Are bas..d ot  1.0'  p-fitipetto  rates
pos Ieri,o   liii 10 Stru    should be tIaa  p        iodt.  Tbhsso-rferoaatsosrcueofntpyit ,ed tot; ttIII tesed -  A
v                                W-1~~~~~~~~od Piid ho-cy, l96l-h5, 1970 ond 1977 duct.'                                           t.  ths otal labor fecs.
"r  ait   ccicerl  f'.. scita sI  oodt1s.- P,ots Is-pp ly of food Is-
fordtrie00mb ncd  ulse  it tSna per lay; 196i-65, 1970 aol 1977 dote.               IoCO0E 0lTIcMIlTllt
ihi Hlna-i  -Iiroiry tate~-t   ... iocoad I -   -oon  deahs oerohca--d le                 Percenc.ne cf Prl-sc  IboOn (both to  -eh adA kiod) - teetoad by richset
tro   uoItle   rslIlt obles; 1960, 1970sd17  dta.                                            o oshls
tIdTT                                                                                               ro PVE atY TARGET nC-US
nilrc;19600. 110ur   97   ao.ac"bci  b   ctreee  et1-lasairati
iofatr  -.ccictyoo  lot      .husd) - oucul dsaths of t.ftf.o   underotya                             iscdcsit   PctreTce   rt   75re  uia     ea   u   ue
of ste pre oboossud  lireliherbsb                                                           AbauItur  poorro  te-os  icel Is that icren le-e  bele uhiolheInis_
Aicraso SoftAutor -reco if...coc    oa   fbu   o  rrl-O                                         roetOtel  adennc  dirt ci'  e-ectli   tot-fooddeqteetuIt  r
-t- of-Peole (itotd, o--rsd  rot. f- lt  csnhis aces  to, ee.                                      ufit.  tfcrdsie.
use  t1u   huc fritpc-1ec-d b-rhdIs.,  pti.gs, ted saoitaryotlls)a                         tR-lesieosrireseicetidfrtg    eryt
tooucob      ttp-d     octdctnr   ht11  aesfo      os   a  be                                    pesons  eti e  of--ti fccu hiyh  Cr.a    I'elit deme  fIneth"             rra
h"M     Id  ~     ~        ftntdProelt eo  OttlePcrtelo                               Les   ceco)  -b-ha
rtascthtoioaeoc d oplycha  th  houtola o  toher  ofthehouehodIud  -oe     P-trro   of  .Popoi-ro   (orbuo atd rurl1) eho seI "bol                     t
do01hoo   i  o_      noicoocltepr   f the lap  it -htoitg tho                                   Poo,'
fac -e'          _ee,ced
Aicserlerec  luccelieccooifi         1cla toococi,ris.ulrurl-l.
Pocolo toe sr Posic ts-eocoo    doc lciot  by toote  of pr-itOcOu  rhoosi-                                                                            Ii
iluq-Jifitd froeuse.di-oitrhiol  -iociurlty..Isu_i
roo1tou t -d     re  n Preo -,d.,    rooaocdcloi dus                fpuoit



- 30-                                                                      ANNEX I
Page 4 of5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population          119.0 million (1980)
GSP Per Capita:  US$2,050 (1980)
Amount                      Average Annual Increase (%)                  Share of GDP at Market Prices (2)
Indicator                        (Million US$ Current)                 (at Constant 1970 Prices)                           (at Current Prices)
1980               1965-70    1970-75    1975-80    1981-86         1970      1975     1979      1980 /b    1985
National Accounts
Gross Domestic Product /a                                248,200                 7.7        10.6         6.9        6.0        100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0           100.0
Agriculture                                            23,365                  1.9         5.7        4.7         5.2          8.2      8.7       9.4      9.4         9.4
Industry                                               71,590                  9.2       11.6         7.6         5.9         29.1     32.6     31.8      28.8        31.8
Services                                              111,365                  8.0       10.7         6.8         6.2        43.0      41.3     42.5      44.4       42.5
Consumption                                              201,040                 7.7         9.8         5.7        5.7         76.9     78.6      79.8     80.5        76.3
Gross Investment                                          52,460                 9.4        14.6         5.2        6.0         23.5     25.4      22.6     21.1        22.9
Exports of Goods and NFS                                  21,305                 8.2        11.2         7.3        8.2          6.6      7.4       8.2      8.6         9.7
Imports of Goods and NFS                                  26,575                14.5        17.2         2.8        5.9          7.0     11.4      10.6     10.7         8.9
Gross Domestic Savings                                 47,160                  7.9        12.9        6.1         -           23.1     21.4     20.2      19.5        23.7
Amount                      Average Annual Increase (X)                 Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)
(Million USS Current)                (at Constant 1970 Prices)                           (at Current Prices)
1980               1965-70           1970-75          1975-80       1966         1970          1975         1980
Merchandise Trade
Merchandise Exports                                      20,132                  7.8              11.9               5.8       100.0        100.0         100.0        100.0
Primary                                               11,092                   7.3              8.3               1.1        82.9         75.1          61.8         55.1
Manufactures                                           9,040                   7.9             28.2              18.2         17.1        24.9           38.2        44.9
Merchandise Import                                       22,961                 10.0              17.6             -1.4        100.0        100.0         100.0        100.0
Food                                                    1,239                 -3.8             -6.7              17.5         11.5          4.5           3.0          5.4
Petroleum                                             10,210                   9.3              7.6               4.3         14.7        11.2          24.5         44.5
Machinery and Equipment                                4,392                  22.1             15.2              -7.5         15.2        21.2           14.0        19.1
Other                                                  7,120                   8.3             28.4              -1.9        58.6         63.1           58.5        31.0
1975            1976            1977             1978            1979            1980
Prices and Terms of Trade
GDP Deflator (1970 = 100)                                        305.1           444.3           632.7            892.5         1,399.4         2,724.6
Exchange Rate (Cr$/US$)                                            8.1            10.6             14.1            18.1            26.9             53.5
Export Price Indes (1970 = 100)                                  176.0           192.0            226.0           228.0           266.0            290.0
Import Price Index (1970 = 100)                                  242.0           255.0            286.0           317.0           389.0            431.0
Terms of Trade Index (1970 = 100)                                 72.0            75.0             79.0            72.0            68.0             67.0
As X of GDP
(at Current Cruzeiro Prices)
1970             1975               1979 /b
Public Finance (Central Government)
Current Revenue                                                                         16.6              19.8              20.8
Current Expenditure                                                                     14.4              15.8               17.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                               2.2               4.0               3.2
Capital Expenditure                                                                      2.6               3.8               3.7
Financing (Net)                                                                         -0.4               0.2              -0.5
1965-70            1970-75             1975-79
Other Indicators
GNP Growth Rate (X)                                                                     7.7                10.7                 5.8                                                     5
GNP per Capita Growth Rate (%)                                                          4.6                 7.7                 3.0
Energy Consumption Growth Rate (N)                                                      7.2                 7.3                 6.5
ICOR                                                                                    2.9                 3.0                 3.9
Marginal Savings Rate                                                                  20.5                25.7                22.7
Import Elasticity                                                                       2.2                 1.6                 0.3
/a   At market prices; components are net domestic products expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of depreciation and indirect
taxes less subsidies.
/b   Preliminary Economic Mission scheduled for May 1982 will update the fiscal data.
May 5, 1982



- 31 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OP PAYMETS  EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DENT
(million D36 at EorrEnE pEinem)
PnpuLonioE:        i19 million (198O)
GNP Per Capita:  US52,050 (1980)
ACTUAL                                                                                           PROJECTED
1975         1976         1977          1978         i979          1980         1981              1982          1983         1984          1985          1986
Baiaooa of Payments
Net eaports of gooda and nevi-ea                                     -6,702        -6,018       -4,037        -6,086      -19,039      -12,564       -11,173           (-8,770)    (-7,533)    1-5,735)    (-4,095)           (-979)
Eapot-  of gonods                                                  (8,670)    (10,128)    (12,120)    (12,b591          (15,244)    (20,132)       123,293)          (27,757)    (32,770)    (38,740)    (45,143)   (52,596)
Imports of Gonds                                                  (12,210)    (12,383)    (12,023)    (13,683)    (18,084)    (22,955)    (22,080)                   (23,648)    (26,065)    (28,937)    (32,505)   (36,992)
Net fartor inooee                                                  -1,733       -2,189        -2,558       -3,257        -4,821       -6,621        -9,549            -9,687      -10,609      -11.397       -11,990    -11,153
(of ahioh net interest paynenat)                               (-1,498)    (-1,812)       (-2,103)    (-2,696)    (-4,185)    (-6,311)    (-9,179)                (-7,365)    (-8,246)    (-9.020)    (-9,631)    -8,863
Net non-fa -tor soeorvi                                           (-1,429)    (-1,574)    (-1,578)    (-1,805)    (-2,378)    (-3.120)    (-2,837)                   (-3,192)       (3,628)    (-4,141)    (-4,744)   (-5,429)
Net loansfern                                                              2            1             -           71            18          1168           97                              7           17           197          1197
Corr-t             halanc                                            -b,700        -b,017       -4,037        -6,015      -10,021      -(2,396       -10,976            -8,573        -7,336       -5,338        -3,898        -792
Dinec  prirote i-veotnent /b                                            892           959          810         1,071        1,491         1,125        1,569             1,776         2,024        2,306         2,628       2,983
t6LT looms nan                                                        4,830         5 542        5,658        10 018        5 297         3 475        9 571             8 996         85 07        6 981         5 974       3 252
Traditionol 000r00                                                   (955)      (1 1479 (1,059)            (1 4501       (1,250)      (1,195)       (4,314)           (5,224)      (5 125)       (4 965)      (4 986)    (4,314)
Fitanial credits                                                  (6,027)      (7,013)       (8,224)    (13,714)    (10,478)         (8,890)    (13,113)            (10,962)    (10,936)    (11,370)    (12,014)    (1,2,171
Amorloaotloo                                                       (2,152)      (2,618)       (3,633)      (5,148)       (s,430)      (6,610)       (7,9563         (-7,198)      (-7,754)      (9,3)54)    (1,027)   (13,080)
Rrazilion loans abroad  (non)                                          -190          -248         -267          -357         -608          -416         -702                  -            -            -             -           -
Uth-roopsr( n.ei.                                                       -62         1,829        1,248           418        1,059         4,732        1,524            -1,638         2,188       -2,821       -3,549       -4,042
Change - reseros (-ijrrose 1  o                                          1,233       -2,065          -908       -4,299        2 .782        3,480          -766              -560         -806          -948       -1,154      -1,410
International Renerven Id                                                4,041        b,544        7,256        11,895        9,699         5,913        7,505             8,065         8,872        9,820        10,974      12,384
Re-erro-as eonths ofEnporlo/o                                                4             6.3          7.2          3.9           6.4          2.8           4.1               3.3          3.3           3.2          3.2          3.2
ACTUAL
1975         1976          1977         1978         1979          1980         1981
Ettee-al Dobt
Total debnt otnstading a0d disburned                                 23,298        28,483       34,601       46,436        51,342       54,865    61,400 /f
Poblic and publicly g-aranteed                                     13,706       17,349        21,595       30,284        35.478       38,260             -
Offiniol sounoe                                                   3,959        4,431         4,717        5,401        5,889         6,416
I8RD                                                          (1,093)       (1,217)      (1,413)       (1,602)      (1,827)      (2,069)            -
Other                                                         (2,866)       (3,214)      (3,304)       (3,799)      (4,0621       (4,347)
Prlnatemoorot                                   ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~      ~~~~9,047  12,918  18,878  23,883  79,589  31,844-
Prinatennon-guarantoed                                              9,592       11,133        13,005       16,152        15,864       16,605 
Utdisboesed debt (pobli  only)                                       3,879         6,620        8,411        10,209       12,448        14,041
Gross DisburseRents
Total g.eone dinbursonnt of MILT loans                                6,981         8,160        9,282        15,164       11,728        10,085
Pb7lto and phblitly gooranteed                                      3,788        4,921         5,422       10,116        9,151         6,893
Offioial m-pootoedits                                               628          405           (69          490           449          467-
IBRD                                                              250           173          298           275          302           343            -
Other tultilateral                                                 119          113            92          136          206           192
Private source                                                  2,991         4,233        4,862         9,216        8,197         5,892
Prinat-  ton-goaranteed                                            3,194        3,239         3,861        5,048        2,576         3,192
Debt Serrice
Total debt service payments                                          4,195         4,322        5,642        8,252        11,147       23,168
tn-e enn  (net)                                                   (1,677)      (1,423)      (1,651)       (2,457)      (3,555       (5 412)
Payemennmas 2 of Enporns and N90                                        39.6          36.2         39.6          54.2         59.           54.9
Payments an U of GNP                                                      2.9          2.6          3.0           3.7          4.3           4.8
Annra,, eLittert=t    oten the poblic debt (Z) I8                                        8.7  7.6        3                       112           23 
Iffioalstnos                                                               .           7.9          8.0           7.5          83            87           -
Anermee manoursto of tee o-ar-nteed Ioom                                    9.n         11.3          10.0         13.0          11.5         10.5
18.4         16.3          16.1         14.3         14.0          13.6
Pri-noe 00urce                                                            7.0          9.3          8.7           9.3         11.2           9.5
N888 lToto                                                                4,7           4.3          4.1           3.4          3.6           3.8          -
IR8  di=burme4entn/to    gor=s disburneeents (Y)                        3.5           2.1          3.2           1.8          2.6           3.4
18D debt servton/tcnal debt service (3)                                 2.5           3.2           5.7          2.7          2.2           2.1
As   of tftal debt ostonsoding
an end of ineaeNbr 1980        7h
IltaeityeRteuctore :,f debt out=t=tdtng
Manneities doe alhis h     pers                                                                   67
noritie see don b.. -i   1n yearn                                                                 33
/0 Eetimate.
/b  E-lldingeg -ie--ted profits,
It  Ettlodig dAnler n-alanson  dj--nteents and    -ioneteation of do-eesoi gnld.
I     - 7moluding gld an.d dollar v-lo-itoc odom-tent- .
/o Goads oely.
If  Detilsaoan-ilmbl.
Poblit  debt toly.
7h  Pen-i=ioned
Soartes 1  NlonB e of  yayenn D.to    - bano  Central do Brasil; internal Debt Dana - EPD
Hay 3, 1982



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 14
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of March 31, 1982)
Amount less
Loan # Year                Borrower              Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Fifty-two loans fully disbursed                                   1,736.1
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -        Power               125.0           3.3
Itumbiara
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao         Power                81.0          16.0
Francis co-CHE SF
1067   1974  Brazil                             Education            23.5           7.5
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal           Railways            175.0           2.1
1075   1975  Brazil                             Roads               110.0          16.7
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry                95.0          13.0
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry                60.0          21.7
1' 3   1975  Brazil                             Agriculture          23.0           3.2
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista         Railways             75.0          14.1
1195   1976  Brazil                             Rural Development  12.0             7.6
1207   1976  Brazil                             Feeder Roads         55.0          32.0
1249   1976  Brazil                             Agriculture          40.0           9.7
1300   1976  Eletrobras                         Power                50.0           0.8
1302   1976  Brazil                             Nutrition            19.0           2.0
1309   1976  Banco Nacional da Habitacao        Water Supply         40.0           0.1
1317   1976  Brazil                             Agro-Industry        83.0          59.6
1343   1977  ELETROSUL                          Power                82.0          17.5
1362   1977  State of Minas Gerais              Rural Development  42.0            10.5
1406   1977  Petrobras Fertilizantes            Fertilizer           52.0          11.7
1411   1977  Fertilizantes Vale do              Fertilizer           55.0           1.9
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452   1977  Brazil                             Education            32.0          22.7
1488   1977  Brazil                             Rural Development  17.0            12.1
1525   1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao        Sewerage            110.0          75.9
1537   1978  Brazil                             Rural Development  24.0            19.5
1538.  1978  ELETROBRAS                         Power               130.0          64.9
1557   1978  Brazil                             Roads               114.0          88.5
1562   1978  COPESUL                            Petrochemicals       85.0          14.1
1563   1978  Brazil                             Urban Transport    88.0            36.4
1568   1978  Brazil                             Agric. Extension  100.0            76.5



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 14
A.  SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of March 31, 1982)
Amount less
Loan #  Year              Borrower              Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1589    1978  Brazil                          Rural Development   37.0           28.5
1654    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sites & Services    93.0             65.9
1656    1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water & Sewerage   100.0             85.7
1660    1979  Valesul Aluminio S.A.           Aluminum             78.8          11.5
1714    1979  Brazil                          Rural Development   26.0           23.7
1720    1979  Brazil                          Urban Development   70.0           61.5
1721    1979  COPEL                           Power               109.0          84.9
1728    1979  Brazil                          Rural Development   40.0           35.2
1729    1979  Brazil                          Irrigation           28.0          18.6
1730    1979  Brazil                          Roads               110.0         100.6
1822    1980  Brazil/BNDE                     Pollution Control   58.0           58.0
1823    1980  Banco Nacional
da Habitacao                 Water Supply        130.0         115.0
1824    1980  CEEE                            Power               114.0         114.0
1839    1980  Brazil                          Urban Transport    159.0          155.8
1850    1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply          139.0         120.1
1867    1980  Brazil                          Education            32.0          30.8
1877    1980  State of Minas Gerais           Rural Development   63.0           61.3
1895    1980  ELETROSUL                       Power               125.0         124.7
1924    1981  Brazil                          Rural Development   56.0           53.0
1939    1981  ELETROBRAS                      Power                54.0          52.6
1965    1981  EBTU                            Urban Transport      90.0          90.0
1970    1981  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply          180.0         168.1
1989    1981  Brazil                          Alcohol Devt.       250.0         250.0
2015,   1981  Brazil                          Agriculture          29.0          29.0
2016    1981  Brazil                          Agriculture          60.0          57.0
206CI /1 1982  Brazil                         Agriculture          67.0          67.0
2061 /1 1982  Brazil                          Health               13.0          13.0
2062 /1 1982  Brazil                          Highways            240.0         240.0
2116 /1 /3 1982 Brazil                        Agriculture          26.4          26.4
Total                                             6,310.8 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                 883.4
Total now outstanding                             5,427.4
Amount sold                           45.8
of which has been repaid           45.3             0.5
Total now held by Bank                            5,426.9
Total undisbursed                                               3,003.5
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.
/3   Not yet signed.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 14
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1982)
Fiscal                                                                                                                                                  Amount in US$ million
Yoar                                               0 b I i g o r                                           Type of Business                         Loans        Equity      Total
1957                      Siemens do Brasil Cia. de Electricidode                                      Electrical Equipment                            2.00          -         2.00
1958                      Olink-aft, S. A. Celalose e Papel                                            Pulp and Paper                                  1.20          -         1.20
1958                      D. L. R. Planticos do Branil, S. A.                                          Automotive Parts                                0.45          -         0.45
1958                      willys-Overland do 3ranil, S. A. - Industria e Comercio                      Motor Vehicles                                  2.45          -         2.45
1959                      Conpanhia Mineira de Ci=ento Portland, S. A.                                 Cement                                          1.20          -         1.20
1959                      Champion Celulose, S. A.                                                     Pulp                                            4.00          -         4.00
1966/1968/1972            Acos Villares, S. A.                                                         Steel                                           8.00         1.93       9.93
1966/1969                 Papal e Celulose Cataroiense, S. A.                                          Pulp and Paper                                  3.78         3.41       7.19
1967/1972                 Ultrafertil, S. A. - Industria e Comerc-i  de Fertiliz.ates                  Fertili-ers                                     8.22         3.03      11.25
1969                      Petroqui=ica Uniao, S. A.                                                    Petrochemicals                                  5.50         2.88       8.38
1970                      Poliolefinas, S. A. Industria a Comercto                                     Petrochemicals                                  5.50         2.88       8.38
1971                      Oxitino, S. A. Industria e Comercio                                          Petrochemicals                                  4.60         1.44       6.04
1971                      Rio Grande - Co=pashia de Celulose do Sul                                    Pulp                                            4.90          -         4.90
1972/1975/1981            Coapaohia de Ci-ento Nacional de Mioas                                       Cenoot                                        169.14        6.70      175.84
1973/1974/1977/1981       Companhia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA                                 Steel                                          76.97       11.22       88.19
1973                      Capital Market Development FPnd - FUMCAP                                     Capital Market Development                      5.00         -          5.00
1973/1978                 Emprena de Denevovlvi=ento de Recursos Minerais - CODEMIN, S. A.    Nickel Mining and Refining                              85.00        8.34        93.34
1974                      Industrias Villares, S. A.                                                   Elevators and Industrial Equipment              6.00         -          6.00
1974                      Fabrica de Tocido Tatuapo, S. A.                                             Textiles                                       31.00         -         31.00
1975/1979                 Capeava Carbono.s Idustrias Ltd.                                             Carbon Black                                    6.18        1.19        7.37
1975                      Oxiteio  Nordesto, S. A.                                                     Petrochemicals                                 10.00         -         10.00
1976                      Santista Induntria - Teotil do Nordente, S. A.                               Textiles                                        6.45        1.00        7.45
1976/1980                 Tecanor S. A. - Textil Catartoenao do Nordente                               Textiles                                       16.20         -         16.20
1977                      FMB S. A. Productos Metalurgicos                                             Iron and Alusinum Castings                     20.00         -         20.00
1977                      Mineracao Rio do Norte S. A.                                                 Mining                                         10.00         -         15.00
1978                      Cimetal Siderurgia S. A.                                                     Iron and Steel                                  7.00        3.00       10.00
1979                      Volvo do Brasil Motores e Voicules, S. A.                                    Motor Vehicles                                 60.00        0.00      65.00
1980                      Hering ds Nordeste S. A. - Malhas                                            Ready-made Garments                             2.00         -          2.00
1980                      Deode do Para S/A - Denpasa - Agricultura, Ioduotria
e Co=ercio de Oleagionoas                                                PaI-Oil                                         3.50         1.00       4.50
1980                      Villares Industrias do Base S. A. - VIBASA                                   Iron and Steel                                  5.00         -          5.00
1980                      PPH - Conpanhia Industrial do Polipropileno                                  Chemicals and Petrochemicals                   15.00        2.00       17.00
1980                      Destilaria Cianorto S. A.                                                    Chemicals and Petroche=icals                     -          0.25       0.25
1980                      Sotave Amazenia Qulmica e Mineral S/A                                        Fertilizers                                    16.00        4.00      20.00
1980                      Polisul Petroqui=ica                                                         Chemicals and Petrochemicals                   43.00        5.00      48.00
1981                      Brasilpar                                                                    Money and Capital Markets                        -          1.50        1.50
1981                      Companhia Brasileira do Agropecuaria - COBRAPE                               Food and Food Processing                        9.S0        3.00       8.50
1981                      Triunfo                                                                      Chemicals and Petrochemicals                   46.00        4.00       50.00
1982                      Cineoto CAUE                                                                 Cement and Coontruction Materials             40.00         5.00      45.00
Total Gross Comitments                                                                                         741.74        77.77     819.51
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Ropaymetnt and Sales                                                         534.19        12.02     546.21
Total Comitments No. Held by IFC                                                                               207.55        65.75     273.30
Total Undisbursed                                                                                              219.01        21.47    240.48



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14
C.   Status of Projects in Execution
As of March 31, 1982 1/
As of March 31, 1982, there were 54 effective Bank loans under
disbursement:
Loan No.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125.0 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. The project is about 90% completed. Major procurement has
been completed. Four of the six generating units have been in
service since late 1980; the other two were commissioned in 1981.
A cost overrun of about 57% is forecast due mainly to a substantial
increase in the size of the transmission works and to an increase
in the cost of civil works.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81.0 million loan
of June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and
Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule. The Closing date was postponed to June 30, 1982 to
allow additional time for equipment deliveries extending into the
latter half of 1981, and thereafter to meet retention payments
on equipment contracts.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project execution is about two years behind schedule mainly because
of delays during the early stages. Forty-four of the 51 facilities
to be constructed are now operating or just completed. Progress in
implementation of the enlarged project is satisfactory. Overall costs
are within reviewed estimates. A local project completion team should
send a draft PCR to the Bank for comments by September 1982.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175.0 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project has been completed and no further disbursements will
be made. About US$1.0 million is being cancelled. A project
completion report will be issued before the end of 1982.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 14,
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110.0 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Roadworks, detailed engineering studies for road construction
and road rehabilitation have been completed. Implementation of
the maintenance program in the states of Minas Gerais and Rio Grande
do Sul is progressing well. Installation of the 73 weighing stations
(Phase I) suffered delays because of financial constraints imposed
by the federal government. Additional counterpart funds for 1981
have been provided recently and works have been reactivated. The
weighing station program is being reformulated; the closing date
will have to be extended further to allow completion of the works.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
June 9, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Due to lack of funds in 1981 and further
constraints on 1982 spending, project completion is now scheduled
for November 1983. The company's financial position is inadequate
with a year-end 1981 current ratio of 0.54, debt equity ratio of
52:48 and debt service coverage of 0.6 times. A supervision
mission visited Brazil in March 1982, and strongly reiterated the
Bank's request that the Government provide additional funds (or
allow CSN to increase its long-term borrowings) to complete the
project by May 1983 (the earliest now possible) and to restore
the company's current ratio to 1.0 times by year-end 1982 (with
full compliance on all financial covenants to be met by end-1984).
The Government and the Bank are discussing possible measures ''-
accelerate project completion and restore the company to a
viable financial position.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
December 30, 1983. Government approved budgets for the company
indicate that spending on the project in 1982 will be cut by 40%
in real terms below last year's levels. As a result, work on the
project is expected to stop by July 1982. The company also remains
in a poor financial situation, with a year-end 1981 current ratio of
0.45, debt-equity ratio of 55:45, and debt service coverage of 0.6
times. A supervision mission visited Brazil in March and strongly
reiterated the Bank's request that the Government provide additional
funds (or allow COSIPA to increase its long-term borrowings) to
complete the project by October 1984 (the earliest now possible) and
to restore the company's current ratio to 1.0 times by year-end 1982
with full compliance on all financial covenants to be met by end-1984).
The Government and the Bank are discussing possible measures to
accelerate project completion and restore the company to a viable
financial position.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 14
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The Bank agreed to a CODEVASF proposal to
replace works previously planned for certain areas with the
rehabilitation of works in several flood plain areas which
suffered heavily from floods in 1979. With respect to the
project works, construction of the irrigation and drainage
system and settlement in the Betume flood plain has been
delayed by the unexpected need to construct a new small dam
to control floods in a tributary river. Roads recently
constructed by the Government in the area of Brejo Grande flood
plain are acting as control dikes for irrigation purposes, so
previously planned project works may be excluded from the project.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: September 30,
1983. The implementation of the project, as redefined to take into
account FEPASA's weak financial position in 1976-78, is improving.
Completion is estimated for mid-1983. FEPASA's operations continue
to improve significantly. The railway has reduced its operating
cost in the past year mainly due to reduction in staff and improve-
ment of train operations.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982. Phase I of this project ended satisfactorily
in the areas of extension, credit, applied research, and health,
although one year behind the original schedule. The design of
Phase II, extended project activities to new municipalities,
sharpened the project's focus on the lowest income farmers, and
included new components in the areas of marketing, storage, support
to cooperatives, land services, seed production, and inland fisheries.
Serious droughts in the last three years, coupled with delays in the
release of funds, have slowed down the implementation of Phase II,
but activities related to land, inland fisheries, and to increasing
small farmers' resistance to drought through small-scale irrigation
methods, have recently shown good progress.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. The loan was fully committed by mid-1980 for
16 subprojects in 12 states. Because of implementation delays
and constant devaluation of the ORTN, the monetary unit in which
subloans are denominated, a major reformulation was necessary to
restore BNDE/DNER/IBRD participation to its initial level. Under-
taken by mid-1981, the reformulation of the project is now complete,
resulting in a reduction of its scope to improvement or construction
of 5,420 km of roads and 62 bridges, and in the provision of about
US$23 million from the second Loan (1730-BR) for additional financing
of 10 subprojects under the first project. Physical implementation
of the project, which had reached 47% at the end of 1981, is now
progressing well. Disbursements under the first loan are expected to
be completed by the end of 1983.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 14
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of June 23,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. With the removal of constraints on the levels
of incremental staff, imports of project related equipment and
controls on the training programs (abroad) for research technicians,
the project progressed satisfactorily during 1981 and the rate of
disbursements rose sharply. Provided the current levels of
counterpart funding and project implementation are sustained during
1982, the project should be completed by about end-1982.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date:  January 31, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is about 6 months behind schedule because of
initial difficulties in obtaining a Government definition regarding
participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement is now progressing
satisfactorily. The agreed targets for connection of low income
households have been widely exceeded. Substantial improvements in
the management of the project companies have been achieved, partic-
ularly in the areas of financial control and planning of COELBA and
CELPE.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. An amending Agreement to the Loan and
Project Agreements was signed on January 14, 1981. The major
changes in the project involved the elimination of a credit program
for nutritious fooib itdustries -ad the incorporation of a n-r.
for the distribution of basic foods to low-income urban families.
The reformulated project responds better to the Government's
institutional priorities. Since this reformulation, project
operations have improved substantially. Problems still remain
with the quality of evaluation studies presently carried out and
counterpart funding for these studies. The rate of disbursements
has risen sharply. About 90% of the loan is now disbursed.
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 18, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982. This loan has been fully
-' itted for the financing of subprojects in the metropolitan
area of Belo Horizonte, 38 subprojects for medium sized cities in
the interior, and 138 subprojects for small communities mostly in
rural areas of the state. The physical works financed under the
project are about 80% complete. The closing Date was postponed
to September 30, 1982.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date.
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project (Loan No. 924-BR of August 1, 1973,
the undisbursed balance of which was cancelled as of December 31,
1980), disbursements for the second loan began only in 1981. The
existence of competing credit lines at subsidized rates and a
temporary Government policy of prefixing monetary correction unrelated



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 14
to the actual inflation rate have ended. The Government is now follow-
ing a revised monetary correction system under which the level of
indexing more nearly reflects the level of inflation, in line with
the conditions of the Loan Agreement. Arrangements for monitoring
the adequacy of monetary correction were agreed with the Government.
The loan is expected to be fully committed shortly.
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. The project is about 95% complete and 100% of the
contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed
a                   under the loan have been awarded.  Project execution is on schedule.
The Loan is expected to be fully disbursed by the closing date of
June 30, 1982.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project I:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. This project is progressing satisfactorily
after initial delays. Participation in this project by landless
producers was initially lower than originally envisaged, but
concerted efforts by the state government and the participating
banks have improved this situation markedly. A postponement of
the closing date by 18 months, and a reallocation of loan
proceeds to incorporate marketing, road improvement, and water
supply activities, have been agreed.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: May 31, 1982.
Construction of plant buildings and erection of equipment are well
advanced, but some delays have been experienced in delivery of
locally ordered equipment which may delay the project completion
date by about eighteen months. Commercial production is now
expected to begin in October 1982. The costs to complete the
project are expected to be about 15% below the appraisal estimate.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. The project has been in operation from August 1980.
During this period it achieved an average capacity utilization of
81% for sulfuric acid, 55% for MAP and 37% for TSP. Several plant
modifications have been carried out to improve performance of MAP
and TSP plants.  Market constraints following revised credit
policies and fertilizer price increases in early 1981 have affected
production of finished products by about 20%.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The loan was amended on March 26, 1982, subsequent to a project
reformulation required by: (a) reduction in counterpart funds
affecting one component, and (b) difficulties encountered in
acquiring suitable sites for a number of centers. The presidential
decree approving the legal and financial definition of SENAR was
signed, which now permits this component to be fully implemented.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 14
1488      Ceara Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Agricultural extension has been particularly successful in reach-
ing target farmers, and initial land purchases for a first small
group of farmers have been made. Agricultural credit has suffered
from shortages of local bank funds. Physical and social infra-
structure is proceeding well, although there are some difficulties
in a- inistering the health component and delays in carrying out the
water supply program. A state proposal to reformulate certain re-
maining aspects of the project and to extend the Closing Date is
under consideration.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  US$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date: August 7, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984. Physical execution of the
project components financed by the Bank is on schedule; however,
because of financial constraints the pace of execution is slow for
those project components not financed by the Bank.  Three important
municipalities whose facilities are not operated by the executing
agency are not building the necessary sewage collectors to connect
to one of the treatment plants being built under the project. This
problem has been raised with the Brazilian authorities and is
expected to be solved soon. Project completion is expected to be
delayed by about two years.
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24.0 million of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
While financial and managerial problems created significant delays
in project implementation over the past two years, the situation
has improved since the recent reorganization of the project adminis-
tration. Several components, such as land tenure services, non-
farm rural enterprises, and agricultural credit, show encouraging
progress. Preliminary plans are currently developed toward modify-
ing the land, marketing and health components, and to expand the
project area for selected project activities.
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan
of May 8, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Disbursements were initially delayed by about
one year due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market, reluctance by
two of the beneficiaries to contract consultants as agreed, and
procurement delays. Initially there were also delays in project
execution due to low tariff levels and insufficient counterpart
funds. In July 1981, ELETROBRAS arranged for the required counter-
part funds to be provided and in September 1981 the Government
agreed with the Bank to increase tariffs to appropriate levels so
that these projects can now proceed satisfactorily.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 14
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Rehabilitation of highways foreseen under the project proceeded
satisfactorily to mid-1980, when works were suspended because
of financial constraints imposed by the federal government. However,
these problems have been recently corrected and project execution
has been resumed.  The maintenance program in the state of Parana
is progressing well. The second phase of the weighing station
program will not begin until the first phase (under Loan 1075-BR)
has been completed and the effects monitored. The Project is being
reformulated to reflect current priorities. Project completion
could be delayed by two years.
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6, 1978;
Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation is proceeding well with an overall completion
ratio approaching 75%. Commencement of commercial operations is
e-pected in October 1982. The anticipated cost to complete the
project is presently running about 7% below the original estimate.
1563      Urban Transport Project:  US$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
This project is progressing satisfactorily although progress
initially varied widely among the five cities involved. The
project has been partially reformulated to delete certain items
whose implementation was no longer justified as originally envisaged
at appraisal, or could not be physically completed by the revised
project completion date, December 31, 1982. At the same time, some
new items have been included to achieve the project's objective, which
is improvement of the delivery of urban transport services in several
cities. The Closing Date has also been postponed to June 30, 1983.
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  US$100.0 million loan of May 22,
1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984. The executing agency, EMBRATER, continues to work closely
with state/territory agencies to achieve adequate project implementa-
tion.  The Project Coordination Unit has been effective, and project
execution proceeded satisfactorily during 1981. The Closing Date
has been postponed from December 31, 1982 to June 30, 1984, in
part to allow additional time to achieve planned levels of incre-
mental staffing, fellowships for staff training, and use of
consultants. However, at least a partial exemption to recently
re-imposed Government hiring restrictions will need to be arranged
by EMBRATER to prevent a serious slow-down in project development.
Overall, the remaining project activities appear to be proceeding
reasonably well.
1589      Bahia Rural Development Project:  US$37.0 million loan of July 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983. The pace of project execution is now satisfactory, and delays
in funding have been reduced. Extension and land titling services
have been improved, but lack of land purchase credit is hampering
the balanced progress of the project. The quality of feeder road



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 14
construction has been uneven, but supervision of construction is
being strengthened. The health component is proceeding smoothly;
however, the education and water supply components are far behind
schedule.
1654      Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project:  US$93.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 9, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983. Housing targets are being met and
difficulties which had been encountered in meeting the sites and
services targets have been overcome. The Bank has approved a
proposal that will offer a solution to the problems which have
caused slow progress in this project and an amendment to the Loan
Agreement has recently been signed.
1656      Northeast Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$100.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 10, 1979, Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. The National Housing Bank has approved the
five year investment program of the project water companies for the
period 1980-1984. The first subprojects for the capital cities have
also been approved and construction is underway. Due to inherent
weaknesses in the State Water Company, the project may be completed
with about a one-year delay.
1660      Valesul Aluminum Project:  US$98.0 million loan of March 7, 1979;
Effective Date: August 6, 1979; Closing Date: July 31, 1982.
The Loan Agreement has been amended to cancel US$19.2 million of
the loan which wili not be utilizea.  Construction is 99% complete,
and training pots were started in January 1982. There is a cost
overrun of about 8%. The shareholders are preparing an action
plan to finance project completion and start-up losses during 1982,
which are expected due to very low aluminum prices.
1714      Sergipe Rural Development Project:  US$26.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984. Reasonable progress is being made with
most project components. Extension services achieved very
close to first year targets and exceeded second year targets.
The land titling and colonization components are progressing
more slowly, but remedial action is beginning to show results.
The management of the project has become quite effective, and
the monitoring and evaluation of project results is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1720      Medium-Sized Cities Project:  US$70.0 million loan of June 20, 1979;
Effective Date: May 2, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
After a slow start, the project is now proceeding satisfactorily.
1721      COPEL Second Power Distribution Project:  US$109.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: November 21, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. Project implementation is about six months behind
schedule because the Borrower postponed procurement pending loan
effectiveness. The Borrower is, however, accelerating procure-
ment and the project is expected to be completed on schedule.



- 43 -                        ANNEX II
Page 12 of 14
1728      Pernambuco Rural Development Project:  US$40.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984. The project's start-up period was longer
than expected, in part due to delays in the release of federal
funds. Project administration has improved but further improve-
ments in coordination among the entities involved in execution is
still needed. The agency responsible for the village water supply
component has not performed adequately and is being replaced by
another entity. The recommendations of the land tenure study are
still under review in the state.
1729      Sao Francisco Second Irrigation Project:  US$28.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.  While previously initiated civil works have
proceeded satisfactorily, local funding shortfalls and technical
problems emerging in the detailed design of project works for the
Boacica sub-area have slowed project progress. The infrastructure
being developed by the Government outside the project in the
Brejo Grande sub-area may lead to the dropping from the project of
previously planned irrigation and drainage investments there. The
monitoring unit has been installed and is now operational.
1730      Second Feeder Roads Project:  US$110.0 million loan of June 20,
1979; Effective Date: December 17, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986. The Second Feeder Roads Project provides
continuity to the program started under Loan 1207-BR. The loan
is now fully committed for 16 subprojects in 15 states, totalling
improvement or construction of 4,790 km of roads and 239 bridges.
Physical implementation is on schedule. Disbursements have
reached US$10 million by the end of March 1982, which is in line
with appraisal estimate. Completion is scheduled for June 30, 1986.
1822      Sao Paulo Industrial Pollution Control Project:  US$58.0 million
loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984. The project is experiencing some initial
delays, due mainly to long lead times in developing specific engi-
neering solutions to the pollution problems of individual industrial
concerns, but the first subprojects have begun to reach the Bank.
1823      Southern States Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$130.0
million loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 8, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983. After initial delays, the project
is now advancing at a good pace and is expected to be completed by
the end of 1984.
1824      CEEE Power Distribution Project:  US$114.0 million loan of April 14,
980; Effective Date: July 15, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1984. After some initial delays, project implementation is now
proceeding satisfactorily.
1839      Second Urban Transport - Porto Alegre Project: US$159.0 million
loan of June 2, 1980; Effective Date: December 9, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Some problems concerning procurement have somewhat delayed the
implementation and procurement schedule.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 14
1850      Third Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project: US$139.0 million
loan of July 18, 1980; Effective Date: May 28, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985. This project is proceeding satisfactorily. Most
works are already committed, and physical execution is progressing
on schedule.
1867      Northeast Basic Education Project:  US$32.0 million loan of July 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 12, 1981; Closing Date: September 1, 1985.
Project implementation is delayed by about nine months due to delay
in effectiveness and in transferring resources to project states
during Calendar year 80.  Part of the delay is expected to be made
up for during Calendar year 81 and Calendar year 82. A substantial
impact evaluation effort being mounted as part of this project
should yield knowledge of educational determinants vital to other
work in the education sector.
1877      Minas Gerais Second Rural Development Project:  US$63.0 million
loan of September 15, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily. However, previous plans for co-financing have
fallen through and the availability of local counterpart funds has
slowed project implementation.
1895      ELETROSUL Second Power Transmission Project:  US$125.0 million
loan of October 6, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1924      Ceara Second Rural Development Project:  US$56.0 million loan of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: July 7, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1939      Electric Power System Coordination:  US$54.0 million loan of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: August 5, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Procurement is in progress.
1965      Third Urban Transport Project:  US$90.0 million loan of June 5, 1981;
Effective Date: October 20, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Some delays have occurred in the appraising of the remaining AGLURB
cities. Corrective measures have been taken to bring this component
back to its original schedule during the recent supervision mission.
The pavement program in low-income areas (PROPAV), and the institu-
tional component are progressing satisfactorily.
1970      Multi-State Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$180.0 million
loan of May 18, 1981; Effective Date: December 15, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985. Project execution is advancing satisfactorily
and no major delays are envisaged.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 14
1989      Alcohol and Biomass Energy Development Project:  US$250.0 million
loan of June 12, 1981; Effective Date: November 10, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985. All parts of the program are
progressing satisfactorily, although the production component
may suffer temporary delays due to financial stringency at the
national level.
2015      Piaui Rural Development Project:  US$29.0 million loan of August 10,
1981; Effective Date: February 5, 1982; Closing Date: December 31,
1986. Although project start-up has been somewhat delayed because
of the late arrival of funds for the first quarter, implementation
is thus far proceeding satisfactorily. Good progress has been
achieved in hiring staff and consultants, and in the land redis-
tribution program. Overall, project administration is function-
ing well. Start-up difficulties have slowed progress in small-scale
irrigation, water supply, and the establishment of the State Land
Institute; design and procurement procedures employed for rural
roads need strengthening.
2016      Second Agricultural Research Project:  US$60.0 million loan of
July 8, 1981; Effective Date: December 8, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987. Minor start-up delays have occurred as a
result of less than optimal counterpart funding. Also, recent
Government restrictions on hiring are necessitating special
arrangement by EMBRAPA of exceptions.



- 46 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4
BRAZIL
CARAJAS IRON ORE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project  :  10 years
(b)  Agency which prepared project  :  AMZA/CVRD with assistance of
IESA and Hill Samuel Project
Finance Limited (consulting
engineers)
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:  1972
(d)  First mission to review project:  1975
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission    October 1981
(f)  Completion of negotiations         :  June 1982
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness          September 1982
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) CVRD to provide, on a timely basis, all funds needed to cover
expenditures required for the project, including cost overruns,
with not more than 70% of project expenditures to be made from
debt sources (para. 77);
(b) Until completion of the Project, CVRD to prepare and furnish
to the Government and the Bank annually by August 31 of each year
a five-year forecast of its sources and uses of funds. Govern-
ment and CVRD to consult with the Bank annually by September 30
of each year regarding the next year's requirements and the
sources from which such requirements are to be met (para. 77);
(c) Government to guarantee provision to CVRD of all funds necessary
to complete the project, with no less than 60% of cost overrun
financing to be in the form of equity financing (para. 77);
(d) CVRD to issue convertible debentures in the Brazilian capital
market in an aggregate amount of at least US$172 million
equivalent, of which about US$86 million to be issued in 1982 and
the balance in 1983 (para. 77);



- 47 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 4
(e) CVRD to contract untied commercial loans of not less than US$200
million equivalent, of which at least US$100 million equivalent
to be obtained by December 31, 1982 and the balance by December
31, 1983 (paras. 72 and 77);
(f) Government to reinvest in CVRD all dividends paid or accrued to
the Government as shareholder of CVRD in the years 1982 through
1984 (para. 77);
(g) CVRD to maintain the existence of its Steering Committee, under
the chairmanship of CVRD's Director-Vice President (para. 59);
(h) CVRD to hire technical consultants on terms and conditions and
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, to
strengthen certain critical areas of CVRD's project management
team (para. 60);
(i)  CVRD to be bound by the following financial covenants (para. 78);
(i)  until project completion, unless the Bank otherwise agrees,
CVRD's non-Carajas related investments and equity contribu-
tions to subsidiaries and associated companies, will not
exceed, by more than US$30 million in the aggregate in any
one year through 1985 and by not more than US$50 million in
the aggregate in any one year thereafter, the amounts
included in CVRD's agreed-upon investment program;
(ii) CVRD will maintain at all times a debt-equity ratio not
greater than 55:45;
(iii) CVRD will maintain at all times a current ratio of
not less than 1.1:1 on an unconsolidated basis and not less
than 1.2:1 on a consolidated basis; and
(iv) CVRD will not incur any new debt unless its financial
projections, acceptable to the Bank, show that its debt
service coverage will be at least 1.5:1 including the debt
to be contracted.
(j) Tariffs for general cargo and passenger services on the Carajas
railway to be set at levels sufficient to cover the relevant
costs of such traffic (para. 44);
(k) Government to ensure provision of adequate and timely power
supply to the project (para. 56);



- 48 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4
(1) CVRD to reserve about 1000 lots for additional service workers in
the first stage of development of the townsite, to enable the
permanent settlement of about 1000 additional service workers and
their families in the townsite over a period of about 5 years
from project completion (para. 52);
(m)  CVRD to furnish to the Bank by September 30, 1982, for approval,
(i) final designs of the town plan for Carajas, including modifi-
cations to the road plans, and site plans for all housing at
Carajas, and (ii) an urban development plan for the accommodation
at Parauapebas by 1988 of around 10,000 people (para. 52);
(n)  CVRD to furnish to the Bank, by June 1, 1985, for comment, an
urban development plan for the second-phase development of
Caraias town (para. 52);
(o)  CVRD to prepare, not later than December 31, 1982, a land-use and
zoning plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the port-railway
terminal area in Sao Luis, such plan to include the resettlement
of existing squatter groups in the area and measures to control
squatter invasions along the access highway to the port (para.
52);
(p)  CVRD to maintain the existence of its independent environmental
advisory group (GEAMAM), with staff, functions and responsi-
bilities satisfactory to the Bank (para. 53);
(q)  CVRD to maintain the organizational arrangements and staffing
presently in place or planned for environmental control activ-
ities including its Internal Environmental Commission (CIMA) at
the mine site and a CIMA at the port site, with staff and
functions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 53);
(r)  Government and CVRD to carry out work programs related to the
environment of the Project, satisfactory to the Bank; such work
programs to be furnished to the Bank, for approval, by
September 30, 1982 (para. 53);
(s)  CVRD to carry out a pollution control program, according to a
timetable, satisfactory to the Bank; such pollution control
program to be furnished to the Bank, for approval, by
December 31, 1982 (para. 53);



- 49 -
ANNEX III
Page 4 of 4
(t)  Government, through FUNAI, to carry out a special program, satis-
factory to the Bank, for the protection of and assistance to the
Amerindian populations in the area of influence of the Carajas
project; FUNAI to afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
comment, annually, on its following year's program for the
protection of and assistance to the Amerindian population in the
area of influence of the project (para. 55); and
(u) A condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan would be the effec-
tiveness of the proposed Japanese import loan (US$250 million),
the proposed Japanese EXIM direct loan (US$50 million), the
proposed yen syndication (US$150 million), the proposed ECSC
credit line (up to US$600 million, including US$200 million
contingency financing), and the proposed KfW loan (DM300
million) (para. 72).



/



IBRD  16254
7, VENE2ZUEI4, ) j                                                                                                    MARCH 1982
|'OLOA^BIAA    t      . 
AREA
OF MAP                                              BRAZIL
I X                                                           A < CARAJAS IRON ORE PROJECT
PERU     K        B RAZI 
A 30LIVIA' 1    rosila                                                                PROJECT
I   a >  !>/<         /                                                 -!   -     Raitroad
'TLAN~/C  34 I 1  \   n   ~ 30Port
4RGEN>lATNNIC |N                                                                       Carajas Mine
N                         EXISTING
J  - -i- | Railroad
[   SerrQ do Navio                 I9s,a                                             -        hMain Roads
5                                [       t Portod  0A                                            i 'Serdo ai  Rivers Roads
rande                             o ,State Boundaries
0                     0' S<  'n   o  100    200    300
\tX   MACAPA (                                 0 G    V/ r   X  KILOMETERS .0          100        1$0       200
0.@                                   JS         /                                               >    C    MRMILES      0
Curus         Solino,6palis
/4 > m POWER PL~~~~~ANT zA o
afhd,ilOes aA                                              R      A\p< ,odgtsent on toe legal septos of aol eorrtrorn or aol enisetoertnt
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T    SA   LUIS t 
1~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~                                        ~       ~~~~~~~~                                Ze Doc 1/0 5
j10  0J                                                                                                                  ? 0
Thfs~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~UUU HYDR hiclr Miripeardb teZo/ aksstf rcueeyfo h ovnec
of ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~OE PLANTxr fth eo oweh t,  fthd h eozaxnsue n h  
boundanf a shown on thts mf p do not Implv on the pawrt of the Wor/d Sank and sts   \iI./ 
afffsate an /odmen on he egalsraus o an tef strv o an endf tmetLaorgoa d/a
<    of such boundanos  50   13         * no Bros//la                 ,             t        45~Pedr



