Document of
The World Bank   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2912-IND
INDONESIA
THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 19, 1980
Population, Health and Nutrition Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$1                              Rupiah (Rp) 625
Rp 100                            US$0.16
Rp 1,000,000                      US$1,600
ABBREVIATIONS
ABRI         =    Armed Forces of the Republic of Indonesia
ANM          =    Auxiliary Nurse Midwife
BAPPENAS     =    National Development and Planning Agency
GOI          =    Government of Indonesia
IPPA         =    Indonesian Planned Parenthood Association
IUD          =    Intra Uterine Device
IEC          =    Information, Education, and Communication
MCH/FP       =    Maternal and Child Health/Family Planning
MOI          =    Ministry of Information
MOH          =    Ministry of Health
MOE          =    Ministry of Education and Culture
NFPCB        =    National Family Planning Coordinating Board
PK           =    Perawat Kesehatan (Primary Health Nurse)
PNPK         =    National Population Education Project (Ministry of
Education and Culture)
PPFPC        =    Provincial Population and Family Planning Center
PTC          =    Provincial Training Center
REPELITA     =    Five-Year Development Plan
STC          =    Sub-provincial Training Center
TBA          =    Traditional Birth Attendant
TFR          =    Total Fertility Rate
UNFPA        =    United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF       =    United Nations Children's Fund
USAID        =    United States Agency for International Development
VCDC         =    Village Contraceptive Distribution Center
WHO          =    World Health Organization
GLOSSARY
BUPATI       =    Chief Executive of a District (Kabupaten)
CAMAT        =    Executive Head of a Sub-district (Kecamatan)
KABUPATEN          District of a Province
KECAMATAN    =    Administrative Sub-district
LURAH        =    Village Headman
PROMOKESA    =    Primary Health Worker
PUSKESMAS    =    Kecamatan Health Center
Government of Indonesia Fiscal Year: April 1 to March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEFINITIONS
Crude Birth Rate        Number of live births per year per 1,000 population.
Crude Death Rate        Number of deaths per year per 1,000 population.
Rate of Natural         Difference between crude birth rate and crude death
Increase              rate;  usually expressed as a percentage.
Rate of Population      Rate of natural increase adjusted for (net) migration,
Growth                and expressed as a percentage of the total population
in a given year.
Age-Specific            Number of live births to women in a given age group
Fertility Rates       per 1,000 women in the same age group, in a given
year. It is usually calculated for 5-year age groups.
Total Fertility         The average number of children that would be born
Rate                  per woman if she were to live to the end of her
childbearing years, and bear children according to
a given set of age-specific fertility rates. The
Total Fertility Rate often serves as an estimate
of the average number of children per family.
Gross Reproduction      This is the same as the Total Fertility Rate, but
Rate                  refers to the number of daughters a woman would
have under prevailing fertility patterns.
Net Reproduction        The number of daughters a woman would have under
Rate                  prevailing fertility and mortality patterns, who
would survive to the mean age of childbearing.
Infant Mortality        Annual number of deaths of infants under 1 year
Rate                  per 1,000 live births during-the same year.
Maternal Mortality      Number of maternal deaths per 1,000 births attri-
Rate                  butable to pregnancy, childbirth, or puerperal
complications (i.e., within six weeks following
childbirth).
Life Expectancy         Average number of years expected to be lived by
children born in the same year if mortality
rates for each age/sex group remain the same in
the future.
Dependency Ratio        Number of people 14 years and under plus people
65 years and over, divided by the population
aged 15 to 64 years.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
BASIC DATA
Total Area ..... ..............................................  2,027,000 km2
Total Population. - Latest Census  (1971) .............. . .....       119.2 million
2  - Latest Estimate (December 1979)                    140.0 million
Density per km   (1979) - Indonesia ........                              69
- Java and Madura                   ....        631
Rate of Natural Increase (1979) ........    ...........                  1.9%
Crude Birth Rate (1979) .......  ....              ....... ........   35/1,000
Crude Death Rate (1979) ).     . ... ... ... . .  .... .. . ... . .. *.   16/1,000
Life Expectancy at Birth (1979) ..................    .........   48 years
Urban Population as Percent of Total Population (1979) .18%
Adult Literacy Rate in Percent (1979) - Males         ...          72%
- Females  ..............   50%
- Total Adult Population   61%
Primary School Enrollment as Percentage (1979)
of School Age Population (ages 7-12)- Males ................   62%
- Females .. ...... ... oo   58%
- Total  ....o...........    60%
Age Structure in Percent (1976)        -  0-14 years .42%
- 15-64 years  o.........   56%
- 65 and over .... ......   2%
Married Women of Reproductive Age (15-44 years)...o .....o..   20.9 million
Population per Physician ('000s, 1979) ......... .... ...........   13.2
Population per Nurse/Midwives ('000s, 1979) ..................    4.4
Population per Auxiliary Health Personnel ('000s, 1979) ......    4.0
Acceptors Recruited by the National Family
Planning Program -  Cumulative through December 1979 .......   15.0 million
Current Family Planning Users (March 1979)
-  Java and Bali .......    5.0 million
- 10 Provinces in Other
Islands I ...o...o....   0.6 million
- 11 Provinces in Other
Islands II ........    0.1 million
Current Family Planning Users as Percentage of Married Women
aged 15-44 (March 1979)        ..............ft..f.. .          . f  27.0%
GDP per capita (1979) ......            .......  US$370






INDONESIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A THIRD
POPULATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   INTRODUCTION ..................................................            1
II.   DEMOGRAPHIC PROFILE . .............................. ....                  1
A. Current Status ................  .... ** ..........                    1
B. Regional Variations .            ...............................       3
C. Economic Development ..................        ............            4
D. Future Trends .......         .........................                5
III.    POPULATION POLICY, ORGANIZATION, PROGRAM AND
ACHIEVEMENTS  .......     .................................             5
A. Policy .........................................................       5
B. Organization ........... ...........................                   6
C. Program ........................................................       7
D. Financing of the Family Planning Program ....             .......     12
E. Achievements of the Family Planning Program              ........     13
F. Family Planning Program Needs .............. ........                 14
IV.  FIRST AND SECOND POPULATION PROJECTS ...................                   14
A. First Population Project ..........................                   14
B. Second Population Project .....            .....................      15
C. Experience with Implementation of the First and
Second Projects ..............             .   .16
D. Linkages Between the Earlier Projects and the
Proposed Project .......... .. .................. .                16
V.  THE PROJECT             ............................................       17
A. Objectives ............................................               17
B. Project Composition ...............            .................      18
C. Project Description . .............................. .                19
This report is based on the findings of the appraisal mission which visited
Indonesia in November 1979, followed by a post-appraisal mission in February
1980. The post-appraisal mission consisted of the following Bank staff:
Messrs. J.J. Kisa, D. Mills, A. Shaw, Dr. H.J. Park, Ms. S. Foster, and
Mr. T.S. Mehta (Consultant - Population Education).



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
VI. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, DISBURSEMENT, ACCOUNTS
AND PROCUREMENT .............. ....... ... ............ .  30
A.   Project  Cost   ...... ................. ................  30
B.  Project  Financing   ...... ............ ................  32
C. Disbursements and Accounts .....  ....................   32
D.  Procurement   ..............................................  33
VII.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION .....     34
A. Overall Project Implementation ................... ..    34
B. Implementation of Project Components ............ ...    34
C. Project Monitoring and Evaluation ................ ..    35
D. Implementation Schedule .    . ...........................  36
VIII. BENEFITS AND RISKS ...........................               36
A.  Benefits  ......................................... ..........  36
B.  Risks     ..............................................  37
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS   ................    37
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1 Tables
T-1  Socioeconomic Indicators in Selected Countries, 1979
T-2  Population Age Structure in Indonesia, 1961-1976 (Selected Years)
T-3  Total Population and Average Annual Growth Rates for Selected
Years, 1930-1976 and Population Density by Province, 1971-1976
T-4  Knowledge and Practice of Family Planning Methods among Women
15-49 Years
T-5  Population Projections, 1980-2150
T-6   Financing of Family Planning Program, 1969-1979
T-7  NFPCB New Acceptor Targets and Achievements during
REPELITA I, II and Targets for REPELITA III,1969-1984
T-8  Percentage of New Acceptors by Contraceptive Method Chosen,1969-1979
T-9  Demographic and Program Data by Regions,December 1979
T-10  Comparison of First and Second Population Projects and Proposed
Third Project Components
T-11 Expected Training Loads at Provincial Training Centers, 1980-1984
T-12  Cost Estimates:  Information, Education and Communication
Activities, 1980-1984
T-13  Work Program for IEC Activities, 1980-1984



ANNEX 1 Tables (Continued)
T-14  Population Education Inputs for First and Second Projects and
Linkages with Third Project
T-15  Cost Estimates:  Population Education, 1980-1984
T-16  Work Program for Population Education, 1980-1984
T-17  Cost Estimates:  Field Supervision, 1980-1984
T-18  Cost Estimates:  Training of Traditional Birth Attendants, 1980-1984
T-19  Cost Estimates:  Training of Nurses and Midwives, 1980-1984
T-20  Staffing Pattern for Health Center with and without Ten-Bed
In-Patient Annex
T-21  Cost Estimates:  Training of Doctors, Other Health Staff and
Community Leaders, 1980-1984
T-22  Summary of Cost Estimates for Civil Works
T-23  Project Cost Estimates by Functional and Expenditure
Categories, 1980-1984
T-24  Financing Plan by Expenditure and Functional Categories
T-25  Estimated Expenditures by Year and by Expenditure Categories
T-26  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements, 1981-1984
T-27  Schedule of Key Project Actions To Meet the Disbursement Schedule
T-28  Quarterly Implementation Schedule for Non-Construction
Activities, 1980-1984
T-29  Civil Works Implementation, Expenditure and Disbursement
Schedule, 1980-1984
ANNEX 2 Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
CHARTS
C-1 Organization of the National Family Planning Coordinating
Board (NFPCB)
C-2 Organization of Training of Traditional Birth Attendants
C-3 Structure of the Ministry of Health
MAP
M-1   Indonesia:  Administration and Population






INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Indonesia (GOI) is continuing efforts to assure
its people an adequate minimum standard of living. The rapid growth of
population endangers the success of these efforts and thus is a matter of
serious concern to the GOI. Consequently, the GOI has incorporated in its
Third Five-Year Development Plan (REPELITA III, covering the period 1979/80-
1983/84) measures for accelerating the decline of fertility already achieved
by the national family planning program.
1.02      Despite the impressive success of the family planning program,
especially in the islands of Java and Bali, the total fertility rate
(estimated to be 4.8 in 1979 corresponding to a crude birth rate of 35 per
1,000) is still high. The high death rate (16 per 1,000 in 1979) is likely to
decline rapidly in the near future, with the possible consequence of a sharp
increase in the rate of population growth if fertility remains unchanged.
The fact that the population is predominantly young means that it will take
many years for a reduction in fertility to bring about an appreciable slowing
down in the rate of growth. Moreover, because the population of Indonesia is
so large (140 million in 1979), even a relatively low rate of growth means
large absolute annual increases.
1.03      The original objective of the national family planning program
was to reduce the 1971 total fertility rate by 50% over the period 1971-2000.
The date for achieving this goal was recently revised to 1990. This revised
target calls for intensified efforts to reduce the birth rate. The GOI is
therefore planning to reduce the total fertility rate from 4.8 in 1979 to
3.5 in 1984. The proposed project, the successor of the first project (Cr.
300-IND) financed jointly by the GOI, IDA and the United Nations Fund for
Population Activities (UNFPA), and the second project (Ln. 1472-IND) financed
by the GOI and the Bank, is designed to help the GOI to achieve this goal.
The proposed project, like its predecessors, will form part of the national
program, and will carry on and extend many of the activities begun under the
first and second projects.
II. DEMOGRAPHIC PROFILE
A. Current Status
2.01      The population of Indonesia -- the fifth most populous country
in the world - increased by about 21 million between the last census in
1971 and the end of 1979, when it was estimated to be 140 million. Because
immigration and emigration are negligible, the growth of the population is
determined by the difference between births and deaths, and the rate of growth
coincides with the rate of natural increase.



-2-
2.02      Despite a substantial decline in the birth rate during the last
two decades -- the combined result of a highly successful family planning
program and socio-economic development -- the rate of natural increase remains
high in relation to the socio-economic development goals and the rates
achieved in some other Asian countries (Annex I, Table T-1). A decline in the
birth rate of about 26% during the period 1960-79 was masked by a decline in
the death rate of 30% during the same period. About two-thirds of the decline
in the birth rate took place after the introduction of the family planning
program.  The table below shows the changes in key indicators over the period
1960-79.
Expec-
Crude         Crude       Rate of                 tation       Infant
Birth        Death        Natural       Total    of Life    Mortality
Rate          Rate        Increase    Fertility  at Birth   (per 1,000
(per 1,000) (per 1,000) (% per annum)   Rate        (in years) live births)
1960       47            23            2.4          6.0         41           140
1970       43            17            2.6          5.5         44           126
1977       37            16            2.1          4.9         48           110
1979 1     35            16            1.9          4.8         48           100/2
/1   The 1979 figures are the estimates given by NFPCB; the other data are from
the 1971 Census and the 1976 Intercensal Population Survey.
/2   The MOH gives 110 as the rate; Census Bureau estimates, however, indicate
that it ranges from 126 for females in Java to 176 for males in some of
the other islands.
2.03      A built-in potential for further rapid growth of population is
provided by the universality of marriage, the young age structure of the
population and the likelihood that improvements in health services will
bring about an appreciable reduction in mortality, which remains fairly high
despite a rapid decline in the 1960s. Thirty percent of women aged 15-19
years, 80% of those aged 20-24, and 98% of those aged 30-34 are or have been
married. A high proportion of Indonesia's population (42%) is under 15 years
of age. This high proportion not only adds to the dependency burden but in
time will increase the proportion of women of reproductive age and thus create
a momentum for population growth. (Age composition of the population is given
in Annex 1, T-2).
2.04      Although a reduction in mortality increases the rate of growth of
population, a reduction in infant mortality, by enabling more children to
survive to maturity, is likely to motivate couples to adopt family planning.
High rates of infant mortality are commonly found together with high fertility
in low-income families. In the first place, mothers who cease breast feeding



- 3 -
because of the death of an infant are biologically more likely to conceive
another. Moreover, parents who lose children are likely to try to replace
them; in addition, parents in communities with high mortality may also insure
themselves against future child loss by having more children than they would
ideally want. On the other hand, high fertility contributes to high infant
and child mortality because close spacing of births and many births may
deplete the mother's physical resources and reduce the amount a family has to
spend on each member of the family.
2.05      Infant mortality, which accounts for a large proportion of total
deaths, was estimated at 100 per 1,000 live births in 1979. This rate com-
pares unfavorably with those in Thailand (68), neighboring Malaysia (44) and
Korea (38).
2.06      The chief cause of infant and child mortality is diarrheal diseases
which account for 60% of the deaths of children under five years of age.
Other serious health problems affecting young children are acute respiratory
infection, neonatal tetanus (often caused by traditional delivery practices),
diphtheria, whooping cough, measles and protein-calorie malnutrition.
2.07      Maternal mortality, due principally to postpartum hemorrhage,
infection and toxemia, is also high at 3 per 1,000 deliveries (1976). Since
this figure is derived from data confined to mothers who deliver in hospitals,
the actual rate may be much higher. Most deaths of the new-born and of
young children could be prevented by proper prenatal care, identification of
high-risk pregnancies and their delivery under competent supervision, and
immunization against tetanus and other childhood diseases. Only 10% of
pregnant mothers receive prenatal care, and only 15% of deliveries are
attended by medical or paramedical personnel, or trained traditional birth
attendants.
2.08      In time, a rise in the age at first marriage, a reduction in infant
mortality and an older age structure may be expected to reduce the birth
rate and the growth of population. Since changes in the age at marriage
and the age structure of the population take place slowly, family planning
and maternal and child health care will remain an important means of reducing
the birth rate and the rate of population growth.
B. Regional Variations
2.09      Indonesia's population is very unevenly distributed.  Java and Bali
account for 64% of the total population but less than 7% of the land area,
while Kalimantan has 27% of the land area and only 4% of the population.
The density of population is about 931 persons per km  in Java -- higher than
in Bangladesh -- but only 26 per km in the rest of the country. Although the



-4-
other islands account for only one-third of the total population at present,
the proportion is growing because their population is growing faster than
that of Java and Bali. (Comparative data are given in Annex 1, T-3).
If the present difference in rates continues, the population of the other
islands will overtake that of Java within a few decades. The much lower
birth rate in Java reflects the success of its family planning program.
Infant mortality is lowest in Java and Bali, higher in Sumatra and Sulawesi,
and highest in Kalimantan and Irian Jaya. Throughout the country, infant
mortality is higher in rural than in urban areas, and higher among males
than females. Differences in other demographic and socio-economic charac-
teristics between Java and the other islands are also quite striking. The
other islands have a higher proportion of young children under five than
Java (16.1% compared with 14.5%) and a higher average number of children
ever born per ever-married woman (6.5 compared with 3.1). These figures are
consistent with the higher population growth rate and total fertility rate
in the other islands.
2.10      There are also differences in the knowledge and practice of family
planning between Java-Bali and the other islands (see Annex 1, T-4). Whereas
roughly two-thirds of all women aged 15 to 49 in Java-Bali have heard of a
method of family planning, the proportions in the other islands are 58%
in Sulawesi, 50% in Sumatra and Nusatenggara and only 30% of those in
Kalimantan. The differences in use of contraceptive methods are even more
striking. Of those women who have ever heard of a method, the proportion who
are currently using one in Java-Bali ranges from 47% in Bali to 20% in West
Java, while in the other islands, the proportion is never greater than 20%
and is as low as 12% in Sulawesi and 13% in Sumatra. Of those currently
using a method, the proportion using a contraceptive method supplied by the
program is substantially higher in Java-Bali, being as high as 97% in East
Java and 95% in Bali, while Jakarta has the lowest proportion at 77%. In the
other islands, the proportion of those using a contraceptive method supplied
by the program ranges from 70% in Sulawesi to 40% in Nusatenggara. These
data indicate the need for expanding and intensifying the family planning
program in the other islands.
C. Economic Development
2.11      In spite of the economic progress which Indonesia has made in
the past ten years, it is still a poor country. The per capita gross domestic
product was estimated at $370 in 1979. About 28% of adults, and half of the
adult women are illiterate; 20% of the children die before they attain five
years of age, and access to health services is poor. The annual additions to
an already large population complicate the task of eliminating poverty to
which the GOI is committed. The high proportion of children aged 0-14 years
and persons aged 65 and over is reflected in a high dependency ratio of 81
(as compared with 56 in Singapore and 71 in Korea), with its serious impli-
cations for the standard of living. Approximately 82% of the population live
in rural areas, so that there is heavy pressure on agricultural land, especially
in Java and Bali.



-5-
D. Future Trends
2.12      Assuming that fertility declines so that a net reproduction
rate of one is reached by 2020, Indonesia's population will increase from 140
million in 1979 to 207 million by the year 2000 and will become stationary at
357 million by 2145. 1/ Even with the assumed decline in fertility, the
rate of growth of population would still be about 1.5% by the end of the
century, and would not fall below 1% until 2025-30 (Annex 1, T-5). Recently
the GOI decided therefore to advance its target date for achieving a reduction
of the total fertility rate as mentioned in para. 1.03. A reduction of the
fertility rate from 4.8 to 3.5 is planned for the REPELITA III period.
III. POPULATION POLICY. ORGANIZATION, PROGRAM AND ACHIEVEMENTS
A. Policy
3.01      In the early years of independence under President Sukarno,
Indonesia adopted a pronatalist policy. Family planning was viewed as
unnecessary except to space births in order to preserve the health of the
mother. It was considered that, in the long-run, fertility would decline
with economic progress. Consequently, the GOI took no direct action to
reduce fertility. With the accession to power of General Suharto in March
1966, the G0I altered its policy toward the rapid growth of population. It
was realized that the high rate of growth of over 2% per annum was retarding
socio-economic development by imposing excessive pressure on natural resources
and contributing to unemployment. In addition, the high rate of growth
tended to maintain the inequality of income distribution, limited savings and
reduced the productivity of investment. The pronatalist population policy
was therefore discarded in favor of explicit support for a national family
planning program.
3.02      The first steps toward the adoption of a national family planning
program were taken by community leaders and influential groups who saw a
need for such services for individuals, quite apart from the impact that
such services would have on population growth.   From 1957 onwards the
Indonesian Planned Parenthood Association (IPPA) provided services, mainly
for the urban population. The IPPA continued to expand until the mid-1960s,
when the political situation and the GOI's pronatalist policies forced it to
1/   World Bank, World Development Report, 1979.



Suspend its activities. With the advent of the new Government in 1966, the
IPPA reopened its clinics, and over the next two years paved the way for the
adoption of family planning as official policy.
3.03      With the signing of the Declaration of World Leaders on Population
by President Suharto in 1967, the IPPA expanded its activities significantly,
and in 1968, the GOI formally adopted family planning as a national program,
with the explicit purpose of reducing the rate of population growth. Follow-
ing the report of a UN-WHO-IBRD mission in 1969, which recommended large scale
government action, the National Family Planning Coordinating Board (NFPCB)
was established in 1970 to plan and coordinate the family planning program,
at first restricted to Java/Bali, extended to ten provinces in the other
islands in 1974, and to the remaining eleven provinces of the country in
1979. The geographical coverage and expansion of the program is shown in
the following table:
Java and Bali Provinces  Other Islands I Provinces  Other Islands II Provinces
(Program started 1970)    (Program started 1974)           (Program started 1979)
1.  Jakarta                1.  Aceh                    1.  Riau
2.  West Java              2.  North Sumatra           2.  Jambi
3.  Central Java           3.  West Sumatra            3.  Bengkulu
4.  East Java              4.  South Sumatra           4.  Central Kalimantan
5.  Yogyakarta             5.  Lampung                 5.  East Kalimantan
6.  Bali                   6.  West Kalimantan         6.  Central Sulawesi
7.  South Kalimantan        7.  Southeast Sulawesi
8.  South Sulawesi         8.  East Nusatenggara
9.  North Sulawesi         9.  Timor Timur
10.  West Nusatenggara    10.  Maluku
11. Irian Jaya
B. Organization
3.04      Part of the success of the Indonesian program is attributable to
the decentralization of program planning and management. The Chairman
of the NFPCB enunciates national policy in consultation with senior and
mid-level officials of the national and provincial NFPCBs and implementing
agencies. The provincial offices of the NFPCB, called Population and Family
Planning Centers (PPFPC), in collaboration with ministries, district NFPCB
offices and private organizations, then formulate provincial programs which,
after approval by the Provincial Governors, are submitted to the central
NFPCB for approval. The national and provincial plans receive final approval
at an annual conference attended by provincial representatives and senior
officials of the NFPCB and implementing agencies.
3.05      The NFPCB is a fully governmental body (unlike its predecessor,
the semi-autonomous Family Planning Institute) with a chairman who reports
directly to the President who continues to give personal attention to the
program, four deputy chairmen in charge of eleven functional bureaus, a
secretariat and a Center for Education and Training. The structure of



- 7 -
the NFPCB is shown in C-1. The execution of the program is carried
out by the NFPCB and various other government agencies. The NFPCB's authority
over these agencies is reinforced by the high priority assigned to the
program and by its budgetary control over GOI family planning expenditures.
These executing agencies include the Ministries of Health, Information,
Education and Culture and Interior, as well as the armed forces (ABRI), and
private organizations, including the IPPA, the Muslim Association, and the
Indonesian Council of Churches.
3.06      At the provincial level, the execution of the national program
is coordinated by provincial NFPCB Chairmen who are responsible to the
national NFPCB Chairman for administrative, financial and technical matters.
Each provincial NFPCB office (PPFPC) has a secretary and three divisions for
planning, supervision, and research and evaluation respectively. Provincial
Governors are responsible for the execution of the family planning program in
their respective provinces, and issue operational directives to provincial
NFPCB Chairmen on behalf of the President.
3.07      As part of the policy of decentralization, the NFPCB has recently
established offices at the district (kabupaten) level in Java and Bali, and is
in the process of doing so in the other islands. At the district level, the
NFPCB has a chairman, a supervisor for fieldworkers, and supporting staff.
Here again, there are close links with the administrative head of the district
(Bupati) and representatives of the service units. Although responsible to
the provincial NFPCB Chairman, the district Chairman receives directives and
support on operational matters from the administrative head of the district.
3.08      At the sub-district (kecamatan) level, the administrative head
(Camat) from the Ministry of Interior, the health center (puskesmas) physician
from the Ministry of Health (MOH) and the group leader of NFPCB's family
planning fieldworkers, assisted by other officials, organize educational,
informational and service activities. At the village level, the village
headman (Lurah) from the Ministry of Interior, the NFPCB fieldworkers, and
the MOR midwife, assisted by the voluntary family planning worker, are respons-
ible for recruiting acceptors and sustaining their practice of contraception.
C. Program
3.09      The services offered by the family planning program comprise informa-
tion, education and communication (IEC), population education, maternal and
child health care, and family planning (MCH/FP). These services are supported
by the training of family planning and medical and paramedical personnel, and
an effective monitoring and evaluation system.
Information, Education and Communication
3.10      The community education program, directed and supervised at the
national level by the Information and Motivation Bureau of the NFPCB which,



- 8 -
through the Ministry of Information's Media Production Center, provides
materials for fieldworkers, is planned and coordinated at the provincial
level and implemented through family planning fieldworkers or through other
government workers.
3.11      The NFPCB has information bureaus at national, provincial and
district levels which use the mass media (radio, television and the press),
mobile information units and personal contacts by fieldworkers to convey
family planning information to the public. The bureaus use the mass media to
create a climate of opinion favorable to family planning, and then rely on
field activities to reinforce the message. Carefully designed audiovisual
aids are of great importance in this field work. Now that people are
generally aware of family planning, greater emphasis is being placed on
designing messages addressed to specific groups.
3.12      The IPPA and the Ministries of Information and Religion also par-
ticipate in IEC activities. The Ministry of Information has set up a family
planning unit which works through information teams at provincial and district
levels. These teams hold meetings to discuss population problems and the
relationship between religion and family planning, and to provide information
on contraceptive methods. At these meetings, the IEC workers use audiovisual
aids in the form of posters, flip charts, and sound slides, and will
eventually use video systems, to drive home the "small family" message. At
present, however, there is a serious shortage of audiovisual aids and most
meetings have to do without them.
3.13      Since 1974, the mobile information unit, a van with audiovisual
equipment, has played an important role in the IEC program. The 115 mobile
information units provided under the first project were used in Java and Bali
to draw large crowds, providing an occasion for community leaders and NFPCB
staff to talk to the villagers. Each van visited about 144 villages a year,
and attracted roughly 288,000 people, so that the mobile information units
reached 33 million people in Java and Bali over the six-year period. The
mobile information units have therefore been of great importance, but some
momentum has been lost recently because of the shortage of up-to-date
materials. In addition, many of the mobile information unit vehicles
provided under the first project in 1972 are due for replacement.
3.14      The GOI, with UNFPA support, will improve research into and the
evaluation of IEC activities as well as in-service training. The UNFPA will
support three studies to be carried out locally: (a) the evaluation of
IEC training; (b) an assessment of the family planning informational needs
of eligible couples to be used in the design of visual aids; and (c) a study
to determine the training needs of mobile information units operators.
Population Education
3.15      In order to create a better understanding of population problems
and policy among the community and the younger generation, population educa-
tion is being introduced into both formal and non-formal education. The



Ministry of Education and Culture has set up an effective unit to deal with
the program, and a small unit in the NFPCB is coordinating and monitoring
the population education activities of the various agencies.
3.16      In the early years of the program, workshops and seminars were
organized to prepare a "critical mass" of teachers who could be used
in training, and in the supervision and implementation of the national
program. Curricula have been prepared for all school levels and some in-
struction materials have been produced. The program is gradually being
extended to the entire formal and non-formal education sectors and to pre-
service and in-service teacher training institutions.
3.17      An evaluation of the population education program in 1979 identified
the needs as: (a) the expansion of the in-service training of teachers
and the training of more instructors for the out-of-school program; (b)
more textbooks for schools and non-formal education centers; (c) the training
of school supervisors at district and sub-district levels to monitor the
program and provide guidance for school and out-of-school activities; and (d)
the training of specialists in population education. The population education
component of the proposed project will help the GOI to meet these needs and to
extend population education further into formal education, out-of-school
programs and teacher training institutions.
MCH/FP Services
3.18      Family planning and MCH services are delivered through 3,411
clinics of the MOH, 319 ABRI clinics, 295 private clini:s, and 109 clinics
operated by other government agencies, as well as through NFPCB fieldworkers
and community level organizations.
3.19      Clinics.  MCH/FP services are provided in rural areas as part of
health services in about 4,000 health centers. Each center serves about
40,000 persons in Java and Bali, and 15,000-25,000 in the other islands. A
full complement of staff for a health center consists of one physician, one
nurse, one midwife, three auxiliary nurse/midwives, one sanitarian, one dental
nurse shared by three health centers, and one clerk. Because of a shortage of
trained workers, many centers have not attained this level of staffing and are
unable to provide the full range of services, which include basic medical
care, maternal and child health care, family planning, communicable disease
control, hygiene and sanitation, nutrition, and health education.
3.20      Cases which cannot be handled by the health centers, and patients
requiring in-patient care, are referred to district hospitals. An important
goal of REPELITA II was to upgrade district hospitals to serve as referral
centers, each with a surgeon, a gynecologist, an internist, and a pediatrician.
Under REPELITA II, more than half of the Government hospitals (a total of 376
hospitals in 19 provinces) were upgraded. This upgrading entailed not only
increased staffing but improved facilities, management, and record-keeping.
Cases calling for treatment beyond the capacity of district hospitals are
referred to private or provincial hospitals. An important goal of REPELITA



- 10 -
III is to continue the process of improving referral hospitals by providing
more staff, equipment and better management.
3.21      The static clinics are supplemented by about 2,000 mobile service
units operateA by MOH and ABRI which deliver family planning services in
remote villages. Each unit is staffed by a doctor, a midwife, and a nurse.
3.22      Fieldworkers.  In addition to MOH clinics and staff, the NFPCB has
a corps of 7,000 family planning fieldworkers in Java and Bali who visit
homes, inform people about family planning, encourage them to practice con-
traception, and distribute contraceptives. They are usually local people
working in their own neighborhoods and are thus sensitive to the needs of
the people they serve.
3.23      Community Organization.  Finding that it was nearing the limits
of the clinic-based approach, the NFPCB decided to transfer the primary
responsibility for motivating, recruiting and supplying family planning
acceptors from central government agencies to local authorities and to the
people themselves. Local community workers were enlisted to promote family
planning and distribute contraceptives. There are some 60,000 family planning
acceptors clubs and groups throughout the country which engage in economic
activities and promote the adoption and practice of contraception among
eligible couples.
3.24      Ir Bali, a hamlet bound together by kinship, social and economic
ties (banjax), has become the organizational unit for integrating family
planning. Household leads meet once a month to discuss community matters as
well as the family planning status of eligible women in their households.
Responsibility for family planning activities has been placed on the adminis-
tration of the hamlet. Under this system, each household head reports
publicly at the customary monthly meetings on the family planning and
pregnancy status of every married woman of reproductive age in his household.
Registers of all eligible couples are compiled, recording their addresses,
their use of contraceptive methods, and the supplies of contraceptives they
have received. A hamlet map identifies each household according to the method
of contraceptive use.
3.25      The NFPCB has established village contraceptive distribution centers
(VCDCs) staffed by villagers (usually satisfied acceptors) who are assisted by
fieldworkers from the provincial NFPCB. Distribution is through individual
contacts or collective meetings which provide opportunities for follow-up work
and motivational approaches to non-acceptors. The VCDCs (of which there are
now over 34,700) serve as community family planning posts which also enlist
local volunteers.
3.26      In the other islands, the NFPCB once again had to modify its
approach. Since it employs no fieldworkers in these provinces, the admin-
istrative head of a sub-district is used to train hamlet officials how to
manage the program in their areas.



- 11 -
Training of Family Planning, Medical and Paramedical Personnel
3.27      The IPPA had set up regional training centers in the provinces.
When the national program was introduced, the IPPA undertook to train the
necessary manpower in these centers on behalf of the NFPCB. Subsequently,
the NFPCB decided to assume this responsibility itself in order to be able to
exert better control over quality.
3.28      The Center for Education and Training of the NFPCB is responsible
for training at the national level and for the coordination and supervision of
the training provided by Provincial Training Centers (PTCs) in each of the
sixteen provinces covered by the national program and by ten Sub-provincial
Training Centers (STCs) in West, Central and East Java. Similar PTCs are now
being established in the eleven provinces of Other Islands II.
3.29      The PTCs are responsible for training provincial family planning
staff, government officials and community leaders. The STCs are responsible
for training other fieldworkers, sub-district and village level officials
and community leaders. Each PTC has a director, a deputy director, an
administrative coordinator and five trainers. The STCs are staffed by a
director, a field training coordinator and five trainers. The provincial
NFPCB Chairman is in administrative control of the PTCs and STCs.
3.30      The majority of doctors who graduate from medical schools in Indo-
nesia are assigned directly to health centers where the lack of in-patient
facilities limits the scope of practical application of their clinical train-
ing. The GOI therefore proposes to organize six-months courses at provin-
cial teaching hospitals to sharpen their clinical skills, specifically in
minor surgery, obstetrics, gynecology, pediatrics and internal medicine. In
addition, the GOI has plans for upgrading health centers by providing them
with adequate in-patient facilities.
3.31      At present there are several different categories of nurses and
midwives.  In order to simplify the categories and to broaden the services,
the MOH has decided to train primary health nurses (perawat kesehatan or PK)
to provide basic nursing services, both in the villages and at health centers.
The long-term goal is to train enough primary health nurses to provide six for
each health center, and one for each subcenter. The primary health nurse uses
the health center or subcenter as a base for work in the villages, and is
assisted in some areas at the village level by five to seven primary health
workers (promokesa) each of whom is responsible for 15-20 households. At the
village level, traditional birth attendants perform the delivery of babies at
home, provide information on family planning, nutrition and health, and refer
patients who need professional attention to health centers. Thus they play an
important role in maternal and child health care at this level.



- 12 -
Reporting and Evaluation
3.32      Targets are set as a guide for planning and as a stimulus to family
planning workers. The NFPCB has estimated the number of new acceptors of
pills, IUDs, condoms, and other methods needed to reach the taiget of reducing
fertility by 50% between 1971 and 1990, so that clinics and fieldworkers
have a clear picture of the task they must accomplish. Each clinic is
required to submit monthly service statistics of new acceptors, contraceptive
supplies, revisits, and contraceptive use to the NFPCB in Jakarta. The
information is used to measure and evaluate program performance. In addition,
the NFPCB conducts knowledge, attitude and practice surveys in selected areas
of the country and uses the findings to modify policy and service methods.
The NFPCB also makes studies of contraceptive continuation rates and
contraceptive prevalence.
3.33      The Indonesian family planning program reporting system is one of
the best in the world. The data are up-to-date, published regularly and
fed back to program planners and managers. The advantages of the system
are that: (a) clinic reports can be checked against acceptor's record cards
sent monthly to the central office, and (b) local administrators can compare
their district's progress with that of other districts and thus have solid
facts to support requests for more funds and equipment. The data are also
used to publish periodically new acceptor characteristics such as age, number
of children and education, which are used to monitor current trends in the
type of acceptors. The reporting and evaluation system therefore provides
vital information to policy-makers and gives valuable guidance to local
program administrators.
D. Financing of the Family Planning Program
3.34      The GOI has demonstrated its commitment to family planning through
its increasing financial support for the national program. Expenditures have
risen from $2.3 million in 1969/70 to over $26 million in 1978/79. The total
planned allocation for the Third Five-Year Plan is $240 million. Annex 1,
T-6 shows the growth of GOI expenditure and external funding for the family
planning program during the period 1968/69-1978/79. External donors have also
increased their support, and by February 1980 had pledged well over $115 mil-
lion for the Third Plan period. The largest donor continues to be the United
States Agency for International Development, with a total of $77.8 million
pledged for the Third Plan period to be spent primarily on studies, training,
equipment and vehicles, supply of contraceptives, local production of contra-
ceptives, and village family planning services and maternal and child health
care. Other bilateral aid, especially from the Netherlands, Japan and
Australia, has been and will continue to be an important source of contracep-
tive supplies and other equipment. The UNFPA will provide about $33 million
for the Third Plan period to support various aspects of the national program,
including an evaluation of the IEC program (para. 3.14). The United Nations



- 13 -
Children's Fund (UNICEF) has allocated $2.3 million for the family planning
and basic nutrition program. The external assistance is coordinated by the
NFPCB, and Bank assistance, which is directed primarily at the other islands,
will complement other donor assistance.
E. Achievements of the Family Planning Program
3.35      From its inception in 1969/70 to the end of December 1979, the
national family planning program had recruited nearly 15 million acceptors.
At present there are about six million eligible couples practicing contra-
ception. In each year since 1972/73, the program has achieved or exceeded
its targets (Annex 1, T-7). The proportion of married women of reproductive
age (15-44) practicing contraception in Indonesia as a whole in 1979 was
about 27%. The corresponding proportions for other countries were Korea 44%,
Malaysia 39%, Philippines 22%, and Singapore 77% (Annex 1, T-1). This
comparison shows that, although Indonesia has achieved significant results in
the nine years since it shifted from a pronatalist policy to national support
for family planning, there remains considerable scope for increasing the
proportion of acceptors.
3.36      Of the contraceptive methods in use in Indonesia, the oral pill
represents about 69% of acceptors and IUD 18%. Condoms are used by about
8% of acceptors, and other contraceptive methods, including the injectable,
account for about 5% of acceptors (Annex 1, T-8).
3.37      The overall achievements mask wide variations from one region
to another. As of March 1979, an estimated 37% of married women of
reproductive age were practicing contraception in Java and Bali. The
corresponding figures for Other Islands I and II (para. 3.03) are 10.3% and
2.3% respectively, indicating the need to intensify the family planning
program in these areas (Annex I, Table T-9).
3.38      Changes in fertility are attributable to changes in marital fer-
tility, age at marriage and/or proportions married, and the age composition
of the population. In Java and Bali, where the program has been in operation
since 1970, about 70% of the decline in fertility between 1971 and 1976 is
attributed to a reduction in marital fertility, most of the remainder (30%)
being explained by rising age at marriage.
3.39      The outstanding success of Indonesia's family planning program
is attributable to the total commitment of the country's leadership to the
program's success; the decentralized program management and monitoring; and
community participation and support.
3.40      The GOI made it clear from the outset that its objective was to
reduce the rate of population growth. From the President down to the village
headman, political leaders have consistently demonstrated their commitment to



- 14 -
this objective. The decentralization of the NFPCB has served to enlist
the political power and enthusiasm of local leaders and officials in support
of the family planning effort. Operational decentralization has been extended
to the village level. Over the years, under the guidance of the NFPCB,
the Indonesipn family planning program has become a unique blend of government
initiative and community participation. It has been successfully absorbed
into the fabric of local political and social institutions.
F. Family Planning Program Needs
3.41      In summary, the main needs of the MCH/FP service program are
physical facilities for further decentralization of program management and
training, equipment and training for expansion of IEC activities, further
training for medical and paramedical personnel, and upgrading of health
facilities to strengthen the referral system for MCH/FP services. The
first and second projects assisted the GOI to meet these needs in Java and
Bali and in other islands, and the proposed project will continue this
assistance and help to expand the program.
IV. FIRST AND SECOND POPULATION PROJECTS
A. First Population Project
4.01      The purpose of the first population project (Cr. 300-IND) was three-
fold: (a) to strengthen NFPCB's capacity to coordinate the national program;
(b) to improve family planning service delivery; and (c) to improve information
and motivation services. The project, whose components are shown in Annex 1,
T-10, was confined to the islands of Java and Bali.
4.02      The estimated total project cost was $33.0 million, partly financed
by an IDA credit of $13.2 million and a matching UNFPA grant of $13.2 million,
and became effective in November 1972. As of March 1980, some $22.5 million
(about 85% of the total IDA/UNFPA funds) had been disbursed. The project is
expected to be completed by December 1980.
4.03      The project has had a significant impact.  The new provincial
offices and training centers have enabled NFPCB to supervise the program more
effectively and have facilitated the training of MCH/FP personnel. Program
management and performance have improved. The MCH/FP pilot project in
Mojokerto has demonstrated the overwhelming advantages of integrating MCH with
family planning services.  Fifty percent of eligible women in the pilot
project area are now using modern contraceptive methods, compared with 37% in
Java as a whole.  Over 85% of the IUD acceptors and over 60% of the pill
acceptors continue to use the methods after 12 months. A strong IEC program
has been established, and population education in schools has undergone its



- 15 -
first trials. The NFPCB now has a well-established system of collecting,
analyzing, and publishing service statistics. It has increased not only its
own research and evaluation capability, but also that of local demographic
institutions, notably the Institute of Demography of the University of
Indonesia and the Population Institute at Gadjah Mada University.
B. Second Population Project
4.04      The objectives of the Second population project (Ln. 1472-IND) were
to assist the NFPCB to improve service delivery through the provision of
mobile service units, to expand and strengthen population education and
motivation activities with a view to promoting widespread acceptance of the
small family norm and practice of contraception, to improve program management
and to provide training institutions. The project helped to achieve these
objectives by providing transport for MCH/FP staff, providing instructional
materials for population education, improving NFPCB's management, and
investigating the feasibility of providing raw materials for local production
of oral contraceptives from materials obtained from Indonesian plants. The
project also included a pilot community incentive scheme study. The total
project cost was $60.0 million, $24.5 million of which was financed by a Bank
loan which became effective in August 1977 and the remainder by the GOI.
(The components of the project are also shown in Annex 1, T-10.) The project
covers ten provinces of Other Islands I, as well as parts of Java and Bali.
4.05      It is too early to assess the impact of the project, although
physical progress has been good. The construction of ten PTCs and NFPCB
provincial offices has been completed, and the National Family PLanning
Training Center is under construction in Jakarta, so that 100% of all civil
works are committed and 90% have actually been completed. The delivery of
vehicles has recently commenced and is expected to be completed within the
next two months. Population education is being extended and textbooks have
been printed and teaching kits distributed. By the end of 1979, 30,000
teachers had undergone training in population education. Equipment is being
procured for the contraceptive raw materials study and the collection of
promising samples of local raw materials is underway.
4.06      The project has made much greater progress than is suggested by
the current level of disbursements.   Disbursements are lower than expected
for the following reasons:
(a) All of the construction work is committed and 90% is com-
pleted--yet only 50% of the funds allocated for construction
has been disbursed. The difference is due partly to
delays in the payments to contractors, and partly to
the customary withholding of part of the amount due
until the work is completed. GOI has agreed to expedite
payments and reimbursement applications.
(b) While most of the vehicles have been purchased and are
being delivered, no reimbursement applications have yet
been received. The Bank has been informed that the GOI
is processing the applications.



- 16 -
(c)  The contraceptive raw materials study began in September
1979--one year later than that originally forecast, and
the population education component was deferred for 12 months
pending the introduction of new curricula. Reorganization
within the MOE and a 6-month extension of the school ,ear during
which teachers were required to concentrate on school work also
contributed to the delay.
(d)  Because of the delays in starting the implementation of the
two components in (c) above, the purchase of equipment and
materials and the use of technical assistance for these activities
were delayed. Procurement is now in progress and disbursement
should increase substantially when reimbursement applications
are received.
(e) No disbursement has been made against the pilot community
incentive scheme due to protracted ongoing discussions between
the GOI and the Bank on the details and design of the study.
Despite these delays, it is expected that the project will be completed by
October 1982, the original completion date.
C. Experience with Implementation of the First and Second Projects
4.07      Some problems encountered under the first two projects have provided
useful lessons for improving the proposed project. In the early stages of the
first project, the lack of experience of the NFPCB with projects of that size
led to considerable delays in the construction of civil works. This setback
was due partly to inadequate briefing of the local architects, partly to
NFPCB's unfamiliarity with GOI civil works procedure and documentation, and
partly to budgetary problems. As NFPCB gained experience, the civil works
under the second project were handled very effectively. Construction under
the second project was greatly speeded up by the advance preparation of
building plans.
4.08      Because the Ministry of Information pooled the mobile information
units provided under the first project with its own mobile information units,
some of the vehicles were used for non-project purposes. To ensure that this
did not occur under the second project, all vehicles provided under the
project are to be owned and operated by the NFPCB and identified by color,
markings and registration as NFPCB vehicles. A system and procedures for
monitoring the operation and maintenance of the vehicles have been established
and have been found satisfactory. They will be applied to vehicles provided
under the proposed project.



- 17 -
D.  Linkages between the Earlier Projects and the Proposed Project
4.09      The integrated MCH/FP pilot development project in Mojokerto
(East Java) und_r the first project has demonstrated the effectiveness of
an approach designed to reach all pregnant or recently delivered women.
The proposed project will extend this MCH/FP approach to the provinces of
Central Java, West Java, North Sumatra, West Sumatra, South Sumatra, and
South Sulawesi by adding an in-patient annex to selected health centers and
by supporting the training of medical and paramedical personnel and traditional
birth attendants to improve the delivery of MCH/FP services.
4.10      Under the first and second projects, population and family planning
centers were constructed in Java and Bali, as well as in ten provinces of the
other islands. The extension of the program to the remaining eleven provinces
during REPELITA III calls for the construction of further centers under
the proposed project.
4.11      In earlier years, the information, education, and communication
program under the first two projects helped in recruiting a large number of
family planning acceptors in Java and Bali, but in 1978/79 the number of new
acceptors appeared to reach a plateau. Greater motivation efforts are needed
to recruit the more resistant potential acceptors. In the other islands,
where program activities are only now getting underway and where the fertility
rate is above the national average, much greater efforts are needed. The
proposed project will also provide assistance in this important program area.
Annex 1, T-10 compares the components of the first and s?cond population
projects with those of the proposed project.
V. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
5.01      The GOI has set for itself the goal of reducing the 1971 fertility
rate by 50% by 1990. This goal can best be achieved through a comprehensive
program which will have an impact on all factors affecting fertility, and
through an intensified effort to reach all of the population of Indonesia.
5.02      The proposed project will, on the basis of the needs identified
in paragraph 3.41, assist the GOI to achieve this goal in the following
ways:
(a) Helping NFPCB to decentralize the management of the family planning
program by providing office training and storage accommodation;
(b) Expanding the information, education, and communication activities
begun under the first two projects; and
(c)  Strengthening maternal and child health services.



- 18 -
B. Project Composition
5.03      The proposed project will provide for:
(a)  Infrastructure development:  Construction of, furnishing and
equipping:
(i)  Eleven provincial population and family planning centers
in the Provincial Capitals of Riau, Jambi, Bengkulu,
Central Kalimantan, East Kalimantan, Central Sulawesi,
Southeast Sulawesi, East Nusatenggara, Timor Timur, Maluku
and Irian Jaya; each such center to include an administra-
tive headquarters, a training center, and a warehouse
for storing contraceptives and information, education
and communication materials;
(ii) Warehouses for storing contraceptives and information,
education and communication materials in the following
ten provinces: Aceh, North Sumatra, West Sumatra, South
Sumatra, Lampung, West Kalimantan, South Kalimantan,
South Sulawesi, North Sulawesi and West Nusatenggara;
and
(iii)  A district population and family planning multipurpose
center in each of the 107 districts in the ten Provinces
set ou;. in (ii) above.
(b) Support for National Family Planning Program:
(i)  Information, education and communication activities.
Strengthening the information, education and communication
program by providing 50 specially equipped mobile infor-
mation units (29 replacement units for Provinces in Java and
Bali and 21 units, one each for Provinces outside Java
and Bali), equipment, consultant's services, fellowships,
and operating costs for the provincial media production
centers, film production and training;
(ii) Population education. In-service training in population
education of teachers (about 50,000), school supervisors
at district and sub-district levels (about 4,200),
sub-district level supervisors for non-formal education
(about 1,600) and village workers for non-formal education
(about 16,000), and provision of teaching equipment,
instructional materials, fellowships and operating
costs.
(iii) Strengthening of supervisory capacity. Provision of about
1,500 motorcycles to supervisors and field coordinators in
the Provinces outside Java and Bali.



- 19 -
(c) Maternal and Child Health and Family Planning Support
Services:
(i) Training of traditional birth attendants. Assisting
in, and improving, the capabilities of TBAs by
(a) providing operating costs for the training of
about 20,000 and the retraining of about 47,000 TBAs,
and (b) providing support for training materials and
operating costs for about 3,100 trainers.
(ii) Retraining of nurses and midwives. Assisting in the
retraining of about 1,080 nurses and midwives to become
primary health nurses at nine existing nursing schools
in the following locations: Banda Aceh, Medan, Padang,
Palembang, Pontianak, Banjarmasin, Samarinda, Ujung
Pandang and Ambon, by providing vehicles, special
equipment, fellowships and support for training expenses.
(iii) Training of teachers in nursing schools in community
health. Assisting in training in community health 960
teachers in nursing schools at four existing nurse
training schools by providing vehicles, special equipment,
fellowships and support for training expenses.
(iv) Maternal and child health and referral services. Con-
struction, furnishing and equipping of 10-bed in-patient
annexes at 50 existing health centers in the Provinces
of North Sumatra, West Sumatra, South Sumatra, West Java,
Central Java, and South Sulawesi.
(v) Training of health center doctors. Assisting in, and
improving, the training of 50 staff doctors to be assigned
to the health centers referred to in (c)(iv) above by
providing support for fellowships.
(vi) Training of health center medical and paramedical personnel,
local administrators and community leaders. Assisting in
the training of health center medical and paramedical
personnel, local administrators and community leaders, by
.support for study tours and training sessions.
C. Project Description
Infrastructure Development
5.04      Provincial Population and Family Planning Centers (PPFPCs).  The
PPFPCs, as the provincial headquarters of the NFPCB, are responsible for
program management, supervision, training, IEC and some research and evalua-
tion (para. 3.06). Each PPFPC thus includes: (a) provincial administrative



- 20 -
offices, including a center for the production and distribution of IEC
materials; (b) the provincial training center; and (c) a contraceptive storage
and distribution center. (Details of training and storage facilities are
given in paras. 5.08, 5.12 - 5.13.)
5.05      The first project provided buildings for the PPFPCs in the six
provinces of Java and Bali to strengthen program management. These PPFPCs
have been in operation for three years. As noted in para. 3.39, decentralized
management and training at the provincial and district levels are largely
responsible for the success of Indonesia's family planning program. When the
GOI extended the program to Other Islands I in 1974, similar provincial
centers were included in the second project. The buildings have all been
completed and occupied. In 1979, the family planning program was further
extended to cover Other Islands II and the GOI now proposes to provide
similar PPFPC buildings in the 11 provinces of these islands. At present the
NFPCB has only inadequate borrowed or rented accommodation, which severely
restricts the efficiency of its work. The proposed project will provide for
the construction, equipment and furnishing of 11 PPFPCs in Other Islands
II.
5.06      The staff of a PPFPC should consist of a chairman, four section
heads and 32 supporting staff. Although the staff of the 11 PPFPCs in Other
Islands II is substantially in position, the present offices, some of which
are rented, are inadequate and overcrowded. Skilled manpower is scarce in
the other islands compared with Java and Bali, but the NFPCB has been able to
recruit staff fairly easily due to the high priority accorded to the family
planning program by the GOI.
5.07      Each PPFPC building will cover an area of 2,050 sq. m.  Of this
space, 55% or 1,120 sq. m. will be for the PTC, 27% or 590 sq. m. for office
accommodation and 18% or 340 sq. m. for warehouses. The buildings are
expected to be completed within three years.
5.08      Contraceptive Warehouses and Distribution Centers.  The expansion
of family planning activities in the other islands necessitates the
stocking of large supplies of contraceptives. When the NFPCB provincial
offices were built under the second population project, no provision was made
for warehouses, and these are now urgently required. With the very much
expanded family planning program, the procurement and storage of contracep-
tives is a major operation. The NFPCB policy is to hold a twelve months'
supply at provincial, six months' supply at district, and three months'
supply at health center levels. No storage space for these contraceptives
exists and consequently there is a danger that cartons of contraceptives
improperly stored or left out in the open will deteriorate. The proposed
project will therefore include the construction of warehouses as part of the
PPFPCS in the 21 provinces of the other islands.
5.09      District Population and Family Planning Center.   In the interest
of efficiency, the NFPCB has started to decentralize its management still
further, down to the district level. The NFPCB spread its operations to



- 21 -
district level in Other Islands I after establishing provincial offices in
these islands with the assistance of the second project. No provision was
made at that time for district offices, which are now required. The NFPCB
staff is housed in unsatisfactory borrowed or rented offices, and in one case
crowded into a garage. In addition, training on the scale needed at district
level is impossible without suitable accommodation. The project therefore
includes the construction, equipment and furnishing of NFPCB offices in each
of the 107 districts of Other Islands I.
5.10      The district centers perform the same functions as provincial
centers. The staff, consisting of a chairman, three section heads and 24
supporting staff, is at present using other government offices.
5.11      Each district center building will cover an average floor area of
245 sq.m. These centers will provide the nucleus for program management and
supervision, the basic training of local staff, the storage of contraceptives,
and the production and distribution of IEC materials to meet local requirements.
5.12      Provincial Training Centers.  The NFPCB is responsible for training
local staff and also the staff of other departments which take part in the
family planning program. Because of ethnic, religious and cultural diversi-
ties, the complexion of program operations in the provinces of the other
islands is different from that in Java and Bali. The problems of distance and
communication between provinces requires each province of the other islands to
be as self-sufficient as possible. Remote areas have their own language or
dialect. Training requirements therefore vary from one province to another,
so that each province needs its own training center. The first and second
projects therefore included the construction of provincial training centers as
part of the PPFPCs in Java and Bali and Other Islands I. The proposed project
includes 11 PTCs, one in each province of Other Islands II.
5.13      The Center for Education and Training of the NFPCB will coordinate
and supervise training at the provincial level as well as the training of
trainers and curriculum development. The staff of each PTC will consist of a
director, one deputy director, one administrative coordinator and five train-
ers. The trainers will largely be drawn from the volunteer workers of the
IPPA, which has been conducting training courses in Other Islands II. Each
center will conduct training courses for family planning staff and medical and
paramedical staff from provincial, district and sub-district levels as well as
community leaders. The expected training load in each province (presented
in Annex 1, T-ll) justifies the construction of new training centers in each
of these provinces.
Support for National Family Planning Program
5.14      Information, Education and Communication.  As mentioned in para.
3.11, the use of the mass media has been found to be effective in Indonesia.
The mobile information units provided under the first project have reached
large audiences in Java and Bali. The proposed project will further expand
IEC activities in Java and Bali and the other islands. The project will
provide: (a) 29 new mobile information units with audiovisual equipment to



- 22 -
replace the 29 in Java and Bali which have become unserviceable; (b) 21 new
mobile information units with audiovisual equipment, one for each of the 21
provinces in the other islands; (c) videotape and cameras to enable the mobile
information units to produce programs using the villagers themselves as
participants; (d) public address systems for the 5,500 village family plan-
ning acceptors' clubs in Java and Bali; and (e) two video duplicating machines
to enable the national television network to duplicate centrally-produced
programs for regional use, and of locally-produced programs for use by mobile
information units. The project will also establish and equip provincial
media production centers in the PPFPCs in the 21 provinces of the other
islands to produce sound slides, posters, cassettes, leaflets, brochures, and
photographs. The UNFPA is funding the six media production centers for Java
and Bali. The staff of all provincial media production centers will be
trained at the central Media Production Center in Jakarta. The idea of
provincial media production centers is new, and is the result of two UNFPA-
funded studies which found that centrally-produced materials did not have
sufficient impact on the different social groups in Indonesia. Two production
technicians for each of the 21 provincial media production centers will be
trained.
5.15      The proposed project will also enable NFPCB to produce 15 new
half-hour films to inform and motivate people. All films will be pretested,
tested, and evaluated in the areas for which they have been designed, and 100
copies of each film will be made. A previous exercise of this kind has
already led to improvements in the scenarios of the films. When the film is
almost completed, it : s tested in the villages, or shown to representative
groups in Jakarta. Tle film is then completed and evaluated after a number
of public showings. The results of the evaluation influence film production
and communication strategy in general. Ideally, each mobile information unit
operator should have a complete set of films. But, given the high cost of
copies, it is expected that 100 copies of each film will be enough to permit
the IEC program to cover the whole country.
5.16      The 29 mobile information unit operators from Java and Bali who are
already working with the units need in-service training. The operators have
not made good use of aids such as slides and public address systems, since
films are easier to use. A UNDP-assisted training course will help train
them to make use of a wider range of audiovisual aids. None of them has been
trained in video production or the use of video equipment, and since they
will all be provided with this innovative equipment, training is essential.
The proposed project will therefore provide technical assistance for three
months to train 29 video operators from Java and Bali and the 21 operators
from the other islands in video techniques and maintenance at the Central
Media Production Center in Jakarta. In addition, the project will provide
funds for study tours for three people to study rural video production.
(Cost estimates are given in Annex 1, T-12).
5.17     The development of the capacity to produce audiovisual aids aimed
at target groups will take some time, during which the UNFPA will finance



- 23 -
research to identify such groups within the population (para. 3.14). Both
should be completed at the same time so that production can be geared to the
results of the research. The Bureau of Information and Motivation will draw
up a research and evaluation plan for the IEC program.
5.18      It is important that the NFPCB prepare an overall plan for the
production of IEC materials. Assurances have been obtained that such a plan
will be prepared by the NFPCB and submitted to the Bank for review not later
than December 31, 1980. (The tentative IEC work program is given in Annex 1,
T-13).
5.19      Population Education.  The first project initiated the introduction
of population education into school curricula by means of pilot activities in
30 schools and 30 non-formal education centers. The second project helped to
extend these activities by supporting the training of trainers (master teach-
ers), the preparation of prototype teaching kits and their distribution, the
preparation of a population education curriculum for vocational schools and
the provision of textbooks. In addition, the GOI trained 30,000 primary and
secondary school teachers from a total of approximately 130,000 (one teacher
from each primary school and two from each secondary school).
5.20      The project will help to meet the needs identified in a mid-term
evaluation (para. 3.17) and to complete the process of integration of
population education throughout the educational system. It will cover the
in-school program, the out-of-school program, and teacher education. Popula-
tion education activities included in the first two projects and those to be
included in the proposed project are shown in Annex 1, T-14.
5.21      For the in-school program, the proposed project provides support
for: (a) the operating cost of training 50,000 teachers in population education;
the printing and production of additional textbooks and teachers' handbooks,
and 4,000 teachers' kits; and (b) 16,000 cassettes (48 for each district) for
radio programs. For the out-of-school program, the project provides support
for: (a) the operating cost of training 17,760 instructors (160 from learning
centers, 1,600 sub-district workers and 16,000 village workers) for district
and sub-district learning centers and the production of training materials;
and (b) 160 slide projectors for district learning centers (one for each
existing learning center). For teachers' education the project includes
support for: (a) the operating costs of training 120 teachers from teacher
training institutes (six from each of the remaining teacher education insti-
tutes not covered in the second project) and the production of teaching
materials; and (b) 80 man-months of fellowships, study tours and stipends (36
man-months for three teacher education institutes lecturers and 44 man-months
for short-term study tours for provincial and district education officers).
5.22      The in-school program in the proposed project includes the training
of an additional 50,000 teachers, comprising 25,000 from primary schools,
15,000 from junior high schools and 10,000 from senior high schools. When
this additional training has been completed, each junior high school, senior



- 24 -
high school and primary teacher training school will have two trained teachers--
one in social studies and the other in science--the two chief subjects to be
used as vehicles for population education. Furthermore, about half of the
primary schools (all large schools) will have one trained teacher by the end
of the project period. The rest will be trained by the GOI in :he course of
time from its own funds. (Cost estimates are given in Annex 1, T-15). Since
the GOI has adopted a decentralized system of training, this will enable it
to handle the training of large numbers of teachers during the project
period.
5.23      The training of primary school teachers will be held at sub-district
level, that of junior high school teachers at district level, and that of
senior high school teachers at provincial level, and will be organized by the
local offices of the Ministry of Education and Culture. Master teachers
(trainers) and education supervisors already trained under the second project
will take part in this training. The Population Education Unit of the
Ministry of Education and Culture will be in charge of the program.
5.24      In the long run, pre-service and in-service training in population
education will form part of regular teacher training which the Government
intends to establish with Bank assistance under a proposed education project.
At the present stage, however, it is necessary to continue to organize a
separate in-service training program in population education because: (a)
population education is new and did not form part of the pre-service training
of the teachers already in service; (b) if included in the regular in-service
training program, the training might take much longer to reach a large number
of teachers, and might be diluted in the process; and (c) the special training
program will attract attention, as is desirable in the early stages. There
will be periodic evaluations of the teacher training program during the
project period to improve its effectiveness.
5.25      The teaching of population education will be further strengthened
by the provision of about 4,000 teaching kits (one for each sub-district and
district offices of education) to be used by district and sub-district
education offices for the in-service training of teachers. The proposed
project will provide four additional sets of textbooks for all primary
schools, 10 additional sets for all junior high schools and 15 additional
sets for all senior high schools, as well as guides for teachers on all
textbooks. Both textbooks and the teachers' guides will be reviewed in terms
of format, presentation, and content by the GOI before printing and distri-
bution.
5.26      All of the 160 non-formal learning centers will be provided with
teaching kits, slide projectors and textbooks with a view to bringing popula-
tion education to an estimated 200,000 young men and women during the project
period. Three hundred non-formal education supervisors (one from each
district) will receive a ten-day course in population education. All the
existing 1,600 subdistrict-level instructors will attend one-week training
sessions and 16,000 village workers will undergo a two-day orientation. One
hundred and fifty officials from the other islands will be sent on one-week
study tours of Java and Bali to observe the non-formal population education
program.



- 25 -
5.27      To improve the pre-service training of primary school teachers,
about 1,000 teacher trainers from primary Teacher Training Institutes (two
from each institution) will undergo in-service training under the proposed
project. An advanced course (Education Specialist) will be introduced at the
Teacher Training Institute in Jakarta. The project will support the preparation
of curricula, teaching materials, and the training of lecturers. The proposed
project will provide funds to cover training costs, and the cost of books for
libraries in 10 Teacher Training Institutes where population education is
taught as a compulsory subject at the undergraduate level.
5.28      Radio programs will be used to supplement population education in
schools, non-formal education and teacher training. The project will provide
funds for cassettes for distribution to the district radio stations for their
bi-monthly population broadcasts. They will be prepared at the Government
Center for Out-of-School Communication Technology.
5.29      The proposed project also provides 80 staff-months of fellowships
for short-term study tours of Asian countries to review population education
and for attending specialized courses abroad, particularly to strengthen
the advanced level of teacher education programs.
5.30      An evaluation of curricula, teaching methodology, training program,
instructional materials and the performance of students, teachers and super-
visors will be conducted. In the evaluation particular attention will be
paid to the effectiveness of the training program and the efficiency of the
instructional materials. Assurances have been obtained that the MOE will
prepare not later than June 30, 1981, a plan satisfactory to the Bank for
evaluating the population education aspects of the proposed project. The
project provides for the operating costs of the evaluation. (The popu-
lation education work program is shown in Annex 1, T-16).
5.31      Field Supervision of Family Planning.  The project will provide
NFPCB supervisors and field coordinators with 1,500 motorcycles to increase
their mobility; 1,150 motorcycles will be distributed in Other Islands I and
350 in Other Islands II (Annex 1, T-17). Since the other islands do not
have NFPCB fieldworkers as do Java and Bali, it is essential that the super-
visors and coordinators should have maximum mobility. Assurances have been
obtained that the NFPCB will monitor, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank,
the operation and maintenance of all vehicles required for the proposed
project until its completion.
Support for Maternal and Child Health Program
5.32      Training of Traditional Birth Attendants.  About 80% of all
deliveries are conducted by TBAs in rural areas. It is essential therefore
to improve the skills and knowledge of the TBAs if primary health care is to
be strengthened and the health coverage of the rural population broadened.
The GOI has embarked upon a program to train TBAs in simple hygienic birth
practices and to provide them with skills for identifying high-risk pregnancies
for referral to health centers or hospitals.



- 26 -
5.33      Of the total 79,000 registered TBAs in Indonesia as a whole,
47,000 have already received basic training. The GOI target during REPELITA
III is to provide refresher training for the 47,000 TBAs and basic training
for a further 20,000. The basic training course requires 30 days of non-
consecutive attendance spread over a period of 6-12 months . The trainees
visit health centers once every week or two weeks for training and return
home at the end of the day. The training takes place at about 3,000 health
centers at sub-district level. Such decentralized training makes it possible
to train about 4,000 to 5,000 a year. The TBAs are trained by one of
the three nurse/midwives posted at each health center and the health center
doctor, who in turn, are trained at district health offices by trainers
who would have been trained at provincial health offices for about 28 days.
(See Chart 2 for the organization of training and the workload.)
5.34      The GOI has now decided that: (a) the trainers should receive
refresher training; and (b) the TBAs already trained should be retrained to
improve their knowledge and skills. The GOI also proposes that there should
be a continuous program for retraining TBAs in order to improve their skills
gradually, keep them in regular contact with health centers so as to improve
the referral system as well as to keep health center staff informed of the
health problems they encounter, and replenish the delivery kits. The program
will upgrade the skills of TBAs and improve their performance and role in the
community health system.
5.35      The proposed project will assist in improving the capabilities of
TBAs by: (a) providing operating costs for training of about 20,000 and
retraining of about 47,000 TBAs, and (b) providing support for training
materials and operating costs for about 3,100 TBA trainers.
5.36      The refresher training of trainers at the district level and pro-
vincial levels will last seven days in a year, while the retraining of TBAs
will take six days a year and will be conducted at sub-district level. The
cost estimates are given in Annex 1, T-18.
5.37      Two seven-day national training sessions will be held--one in 1981
and the other in 1983--to discuss the methods, content, and effect of TBA
training. The proposed project will provide funds for these sessions.
UNICEF will continue to support the basic training by providing TBA kits
and training materials. The MOH National Center for Education and Training
will give technical assistance to the Directorate-General of Community Health
for TBA training. The World Health Organization has assigned a nurse to the
MOH to  provide technical assistance for the MCH and TBA training program.
The provision of kits should give TBAs an incentive to enroll for training.
5.38      Assurances have been obtained that the MOH will review the training
program and curriculum for the trainers of TBAs and furnish a copy of such
review to the Bank by December 31, 1980, for comment.



- 27 -
5.39      Training of Primary Health Nurses.  As mentioned in para 3.31, in
order to simplify the training of nurses and midwives in Indonesia, the GOI
plans that in the future there should be only a single category of nurses,
namely, primary health nurses or PKs. It has established 58 schools for the
regular three-year basic training of these nurses, but has still to retrain
the existing nurses and midwives to become primary health nurses. Such
retraining will not only simplify the training of nurses and midwives but
also broaden the range of services that will be provided at the health
centers. Each health center has two to three nurses and midwives who need
such retraining. The total number to be retrained is 11,350.
5.40      Because of the limited number of trainers, the GOI has decided to
start the retraining program on a small scale. The training will be conducted
in nine schools, each in a different province, selected from the 58 schools
for the regular basic training of primary health nurses. The nine schools are
in Banda Aceh (Aceh), Medan (North Sumatra), Padang (West Sumatra) Palembang
(South Sumatra), Pontianak (West Kalimantan), Banjarmasin (South Kalimantan),
Samarinda (East Kalimantan), Ujung Pandang (South Sulawesi) and Ambon (Maluku).
The selection of schools is based on the GOI's assessment of the physical and
staff capacities of these schools to undertake the additional training load.
The additional three trainers needed to supplement the existing staff at these
schools will be selected by the MOH from existing hospital and health center
staffs. Each of the nine schools will retrain about 30 trainees a year for
three months, or a total of 270 nurses and midwives a year, so that about
1,080 nurses and midwives will be retrained during the project period. The
project will support the retraining of nurses and midwives by providing nine
mini-buses (one for each school) for field training; 27 motorcycles (three
for each school) for supervision by the additional three nurses; 9 projectors
(one for each school) for audiovisual support for training; teaching equipment;
18 fellowships for short training visits to local institutions, and incremental
operating cost (per diem and travel) for the students. (Cost estimates are
given in Annex 1, T-19.).
5.41      Training of Teachers in Nursing Schools in Community Health.  In
addition to the retraining described above, the GOI also proposes to give the
teachers at the 400 nurse training schools instruction in community health
care as an aid to their teaching. The instruction will be given at the four
existing nurse-teacher training schools. The National Center for Education
and Training will direct, coordinate, monitor and evaluate the teacher train-
ing program. Each of the four schools will give two courses a year, each
lasting one month, for about 30 persons, so that about 960 teachers will
receive instruction during the project period. The proposed project will
provide vehicles, training equipment, instructional materials, fellowships,
and travel and per diem for the trainees.
5.42      The MOH National Center for Education and Training, which is respon-
sible for the retraining program, will appoint a committee to advise on the
program and to coordinate the training activities. Assurances have been



- 28 -
obtained that the MOH will prepare comprehensive programs for: (a) retraining
nurses and midwives to become primary health nurses and (b) training teachers
in nursing schools in community health and send a draft of these programs to
the Bank by December 31, 1980 for review.
5.43      Program of Health Center Upgrading.  The GOI proposes to add
in-patient annexes to health centers in areas where there are no hospital
facilities. The GOI also intends to make a survey of the health centers to
determine the health centers which need these additional facilities. Mean-
while, it has identified 50 health centers which need annexes immediately.
The proposed project will include the construction, furnishing and equipping
of 10-bed annexes at 50 selected health centers in the following six provinces:
North Sumatra, West Sumatra, South Sumatra, West Java, Central Java, and
South Sulawesi. Four of the six provinces are in the other islands and were
chosen on the basis of the size of their population; two of the more densely
populated provinces of Java were also included because of their low MCH
coverage. Each of the health centers is in a separate district. The centers
were selected according to the following criteria:
(a) the center should be remote from the district hospital
or other referral hospital, but accessible to the
surrounding health centers and subcenters;
(b) the center should be headed by a doctor, and have a
full complement of staff, or be likely to have a full
complement in the near future;
(c)  there should be not less then 620 m  of land available
for construction of a 246 m building;
(d) the district or the provincial government should be
willing to meet the recurring costs of the 10-bed
unit;
(e) the center and the adjoining health centers should
have a target population of at least 20,000; and
(f) the center building should be a permanent structure.
5.44      Each in-patient annex will consist of a 246 m2 building comprising
a 10-bed ward, a small operating room, a recovery room, a nurses' station, a
delivery room, and a storeroom. The equipment to be provided will include 10
beds with accessories, and nursing and surgical equipment. The expanded
health centers will be able to care for high-risk pregnancies and deliveries,
emergency cases, IUD insertion, the treatment of complications, and other
family planning services. Eight annexes will be constructed in GOI fiscal
year 1980/81, a further 17 in 1981/82, and the remaining 25 in 1982/83.



- 29 -
5.45      Each 10-bed annex will require additional staff comprising one
midwife, two primary health nurses, one clerk and one night watchman. The
total staff of an expanded health center will then comprise: one doctor,
three nurses, two midwives, one sanitarian, three auxiliary nurses/midwives, a
dental nurse shared among three health centers, two clerks, and one night
watchman. (The staffing pattern is given in Annex 1, T-20.) Assurances have
been obtained that a full complement of staff will be assigned to each of the
50 health centers with annexes as and when the annexes are completed.
5.46      Training of Health Center Staff.  As mentioned in para 3.30, the
majority of newly qualified doctors are assigned directly to health centers
for at least three years of service. The doctors at the 50 health centers
where in-patient annexes are to be provided will receive practical clinical
training as proposed by the GOI. They will already have had one year's
experience at health centers and on completion of the training they should
have at least one and a half years of service at health centers. This
training will consist of a six-month course at provincial teaching hospitals
covering practice in minor emergency surgery, obstetrics and gynecology,
internal medicine, pediatrics, IUD insertion and the treatment of complica-
tions. The estimated costs of this training are given in Annex 1, T-21.
5.47      In the past the MOH has organized study tours to neighboring Asian
countries for health personnel which led to improved performance. The
project will provide funds for additional study tours for health center
staff selected on merit. Each year of the project period two groups, each
consisting of a doctor, two nurses, two midwives, and a sanitarian will
visit Malaysia, Thailand, and the Philippines to observe rural health programs
in these countries, so that a total of 48 staff members will benefit from
this experience. The tours will also serve as an incentive to improve the
performance of health center staff. The estimated cost of this training is
shown in Annex 1, T-21.
5.48      The proposed project will also provide funds for training sessions
for health center staff, local administrators, and community leaders to be
held within Indonesia. Local leaders from villages with successful community
health programs would visit other areas to discuss their experiences and
learn about the problems of others. These visits, besides widening experience,
will serve as an incentive, and participants will be selected for their
outstanding performance. A total of 480 people will participate in these
five to eight-day sessions over the project period.
5.49      The construction of ten-bed annexes is part of a general program
of health center upgrading designed to improve health care and referral
services. The practical clinical training of the doctors to be assigned
to these health centers is an important element in the program. It is,
however, necessary to assess the impact of the program. During loan negotia-
tions, it was agreed that a detailed and comprehensive study should be under-
taken to assess, inter alia, the total impact that the expanded health center
(including staffing) has had on health care family planning services and
activities.



- 30 -
VI. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, DISBURSEMENT, ACCOUNTS, AND PROCUREMENT
A. Project Cost
6.01          The  total  estimated  project  cost,  including  allowaoces  for  contin-
gencies, is US$72.6 million equivalent. The tax element in t'.e proposed
project is insignificant. Project costs are summarized below' and details
are given in Annex 1, T-22 and T-23.
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
Rupiah in Millions               US$ in Millions        % of   % of
Category                           Local    Foreign       Total    Local  Foreign  Total  FEC    Base Cost
A. Civil Works:
Construction                                 8,000.0   2,500.0  10,500.0    12.8    4.0            16.8   24        32
Professional Fees                            1,125.0       125.0   1,250.0        1.8    0.2        2.0   10.        4
Furniture                                    1,625.0       312.5   1,937.5        2.6    0.5        3.1   16         6
Equipment                                      250.0   1,500.0   1,750.0          0.4    2.4        2.8   86         5
Site Development                             5,625.0        -       5,625.0       9.0      -        9.0    -        17
Subtotal (A)                          16,625.0   4,437.5  21,062.5         26.6    7.1       33.7   21         64
B. Other Project Components:
Vehicles                                        187.5   1,500.0   1,687.5         0.3    2.4        2.7   89         5
Special Equipment                                        2,812.5   2,812.5                4.5       4.5  100         9
Advisory Assistance and Fellowships             125.0      187.5       312.5      0.2    0.3        0.5   60         1
Operating Costs:
Training, Workshops and Seminars           4,000.0        -       4,000.0       6.4    -          6.4    -        12
Preparation and Production of
Training and IEC Materials               2,687.5        -       2,687.5      4.3    -           4.3    -         8
Maintenance and Operation of MIUs            125.0        -         125.0       0.2    -          0.2    -         1
Subtotal (B)                           7,125.0   4,500.0  11,625.0    11.4    7.2            18.6   39        36
Total                                         23,750.0   8,937.5  32,687.5    38.0   14.3             52.3   27      100
C. Contingencies:
Physical on Civil Works                      1,687.5       437.5   2,125.0        2.7    0.7        3.4   21         7
Price                                        8,562.5   2,000.0  10,562.5    13.7    3.2            16.9   19        32
Subtotal (C)                          10,250.0   2,437.5  12,687.5    16.4   - 3.9           ZRy   19         39
Total Project Cost                    34,000.0  11.375.0  45,375.0         54.4   18.2        72.6   25      139



- 31 -
6.02       Cost estimates for civil works are based on current BAPPENAS guide-
lines for construction costs which have been reviewed by the Bank and found
reasonable. Building space allowances conform to GOI requirements.
Estimates for special equipment and materials are based on equipment lists
which are reasonable in scale and cost. The costs of seminars, workshops and
training courses are based on prevailing GOI local travel and per diem
allowances. The cost of a foreign consultant ($15,000 for video training) is
based on $5,000 per man-month (including fees, housing and travel). Local
consultant fees (including detailed supervision costs) are calculated at the
prevailing rate for such services in Indonesia. The contingency allowance of
$20.3 million includes: (a) physical contingencies estimated at 10% of base
civil works costs; and (b) price contingencies averaging 30% of base costs
plus physical contingencies, assuming an annual inflation rate of 15% in 1980
and 1981, and 10% thereafter for local components; and 10.5% in 1980, 9% in
1981, 8% in 1982 and 7% thereafter for foreign components. Price contingencies
are based on the expected sequence of commitments. The foreign exchange
component of the project is estimated at $18.2 million, or 25%. Cost estimates
by functional categories are summarized in the table below:
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS BY FUNCTIONAL CATEGORY
Rupiah (in millions)    US$ (in millions)   Z   Z of
Components               Loca'l   Foreign  Total  Local Foreign Total FEC  Total
A. Population & Family Planning Management
1. Provincial centers               2.500 0     750.0  3,250.0  4.0  1.2   5.2  23   7
2. District Offices                10;250:8   2437.5  12.687.5 16.4  3.9  20.3  19  28
Subtotal                        1Z 750U-0  3,187.5  15,937.5 20.4  5.1  25.5  20  35
B. TrainInE
3. Provincial Training Centers      5,437.5   1,312.5  6,750.0   8.7  2.1   l0.R  20  15
6. Iraditional Birth Attendantc     2,062.5   -        2,062.5  3.3  -       3.3   0   5
5. Nurses and midwives              1.437 .5    250.0  1,687.5  2.3  0.4   2,7    S
6. Health Ccnter Staff                312.5     62.5    375.0  0.5  0.1   0.6  17   1
Subtotal                         g,250.0   1,625.0 10,875.0  14.8  2.6  17.4  15  24
C. MCH/FP Service Delivery
7. Upgrading of 50 Health Centers  13,250.0    812.5  4,062.5  5.2  -1.3   6.5  20   9
8. Field Supervision                  125.0  1,187.5  1,312.5  0.Z  1.9   2.1  90   3
9. Contraceptive Warehouses         2.625.0    625.0  3,250.0  4.2  1.0   5.2  19   7
Subtotal                         6,000. 0  2,625.0  8.625.0  9.6  4.2  13.8  30  19
D. IEC Activittes                      1,937.5  3,812.5  5,750.0  3.1  6.1   9.2  66  13
E. Population Fducation
In-School Program                3,000.0  -         3,000.0  4.8  -       4.8   0   6
Out-of-School Program              812.5  -           812.5  1.3  -       1.3   0   2
Teacher Education                  250.0    125.0    375.0  0.4  0.2   0.6  33   1
Subtotal                         4,062.5    125.0  4,187.5  6.5  0.2   6.7   3   9
Total Project Cost                    34,000.0  11,375.0 45,375.0  54.4 18.2   72.6  25 100



- 32 -
B.  Project Financing
6.03       The proposed project will be financed by a Bank loan of $35.0
million, or about 50% of total project cost less the cost of vehicles (amount-
ing to $3.2 million, including price contingencies), on which the GOI has
imposed a total import ban and which the GOI will finance and purchase through
local procurement. The loan will cover the total foreign exchange cost ($15.4
million equivalent) except the foreign exchange component of the cost of the
vehicles provided by the GOI and $19.6 million of local costs. The balance
of $37.6 million will be financed by the GOI. The financing plan is given
in Annex 1, T-24.
6.04      In order to ensure the prompt implementation of the project,
evidence was provided during negotiations that budgetary allocations for
project expenditures in 1980/81 have already been made. Assurances have been
obtained that the GOI will make adequate budgetary provisions in a timely manner
for all project expenditures for each forthcoming fiscal year. (The estimated
yearly expenditures are given in Annex 1, T-25.)
C. Disbursement and Accounts
6.05      The loan will be disbursed against the categories shown in the
following table:
Amount of               % of
Loan Allocated         Expenditures
Category                        (US$ Million Equivalent)  to be Financed
Civil Works                                 16.8             100%
Equipment                                    6.4
a.   directly imported                                       100% of foreign expenditures
b.   locally manufactured                                     95% of local expenditures
(ex-factory)
c.   imported procured locally                                65% of local expenditures
Consultants services                         2.0             100%
Fellowships; training of nurse-              6.8             100%
trainers, nurses and midwives,
trainers of traditional birth
attendants; and in-school
population education and teacher
education programs
Unallocated                                  3.0
TOTAL            35.0



w 33 -
6.06      Disbursements for equipment, consultants services, and civil works
will be made against full documentation. With respect to training, disburse-
ments will be made against statements of expenditure certified by the imple-
menting agencies. The supporting documentation will be retained by the NFPCB
but available for inspection by the Bank, as submission of the originals will
be impracticable and too expensive to reproduce. The estimated disbursement
schedule is given in Annex 1, T-26, and the key actions necessary to meet
this schedule are given in Annex 1, T-27.
6.07      Separate project accounts will be established and maintained by
executing agencies for all project expenditures. Assurances have been obtained
that the NFPCB will have the project accounts for each fiscal year audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and furnish to the Bank not later
than six months after the end of each GOI fiscal year copies of the audited
accounts.
D. Procurement 1/
Civil Works
6.08      Construction, totalling $16.8 million equivalent will be spread over
23 provinces and 178 sites. Because of the scattered nature of the sites,
packaging is impracticable and uneconomical; consequently 178 contracts will be
awarded. None of these contracts is likely to exceed tke equivalent of $1.0
million, and international contractors are unlikely to le interested in
tendering. Construction contracts will therefore be awarded after compe-
titive bidding advertised locally under procedures acceptable to the Bank.
The GOI's regulations require civil works contractors to be prequalified.
Foreign contractors will not be excluded from bidding. Contracts of $300,000
equivalent and over will be awarded after Bank review.
Equipment
6.09      The cost of equipment (medical kits, office, audiovisual and train-
ing equipment and materials) amounts to $7.3 million equivalent. Most of the
equipment is diverse and specialized and will be required for facilities
spread throughout Indonesia. Since it cannot be packaged in lots suitable for
international competitive bidding, it will be procured through competitive
bidding advertised locally under procedures acceptable to the Bank. Foreign
suppliers, who will not be excluded from bidding, are well represented in
Indonesia and there are sufficient suppliers to ensure adequate competition.
Small off-the-shelf packages costing less than $30,000 and limited to a total
of $300,000 will be procured locally through prudent shopping after soliciting
at least three price quotations. Contracts for equipment and materials
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more will be submitted to the Bank
for review before award. Bid evaluation and contract documents not subject to
prior Bank review will be made available to the Bank for random ex-post review.
1/   All estimates exclude contingencies.



- 34 -
However, before bids are invited, the GOI will furnish to the Bank for comments
the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding and will make such modifications in the documents or
procedures as the Bank may reasonably request.
6.10      Consultant services will be procured in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines. Furniture and vehicles (costing $3.1 million and $2.7 million
respectively), which are being financed entirely from GOI funds,will be procured
according to GOI procedure. During negotiations agreement was reached that
the vehicles will be procured in a timely manner, be suitable for the tasks
involved, and the numbers will be consistent with those set out in this
Report.
VII. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION
A. Overall Project Implementation
7.01      The NFPCB, the MOH, the MOI and the MOE will be responsible for
the execution of the proposed project, and the GOI will establish a Steering
Group consisting of representatives of these agencies for coordinating the
implementation of the project. The Group will be presided over by the NFPCB
Deputy Chairman for Administration and Management, who will be designated
Project Coordinator. Assurances have been obtained that the Steering Group
will be established bv December 31, 1980.
7.02      Within the MOH, the Director-General for Community Health and the
Director of the National Center for Education and Training will be responsible
for the health components (see Chart 3). The management of health services,
including MCH/FP, progresses from the MOH in Jakarta through the Health
Department in each province down to district, subdistrict and village levels
(Organization Chart 2).
7.03      The NFPCB has had experience with the implementation of Bank-assisted
population projects since 1972. Despite early management problems, the NFPCB
has developed into an effective organization and the impressive success of the
family planning program is attributable in large measure to its efficient
management. The MOH's experience with Bank-financed projects is limited,
but with support from the NFPCB, the MOH should gain experience in implement-
ing Bank-assisted projects.
B. Implementation of Project Components
Civil Works
7.04      The implementation of the NFPCB civil works component will be
the responsibility of the Deputy Chairman, Administration and Management,
whose office incorporates the engineering unit which was responsible for



- 35 -
the civil works of both the first and second projects. As with these earlier
projects, local architectural consultants will be engaged for design and
supervision. Arrangements have already been made by the GOI with the con-
sultants who were engaged for the second project and preliminary plans for
the buildings have been prepared. The MOH civil wocks component is com-
paratively small ($2.6 million equivalent base cost, spread over 50 locations).
The basic designs will be prepared by the Ministry's Directorate of Health
Facilities, and contracts for construction will be awarded at provincial
level through tender committees convened by the provincial project officers
in accordance with normal GOI procedure. Both NFPCB and MOH implementation
will be monitored by the Project Secretariat in the NFPCB.
7.05      About 178 sites will be required for project buildings, of which 29
will be needed for buildings scheduled to be constructed during the first year
of project implementation. During negotiations evidence was produced showing
that considerable progress had been made toward the acquisition of these
sites and the 29 sites for the first year construction program will all be
acquired by September 30, 1980. Assurances were obtained that sites for all
the project buildings will be acquired in accordance with a timetable satis-
factory to the Bank.
IEC
7.06      The IEC activities will be managed at the national level by NFPCB's
Bureau of Information and Motivation, and in the field by provincial and
district NFPCB offices. The maintenance of audiovisual equipment will be
the responsibility of the NFPCB whose staff will be trained in the maintenance
of the equipment by the staff of the Central Media Production Center in
Jakarta.
Population Education
7.07      As in the case of the population education components of the first
and second population projects, the proposed project population education
component will be implemented by the National Population Education Project
(PNPK) in the Ministry of Education and Culture. The PNPK will maintain
close liaison with the Center for Education and Training in the NFPCB so
that adequate coordination is assured, especially with respect to the
provision of funds in the NFPCB budget for population education activities and
the timely release of such funds. As the proposed project phases out, the
program and its expenses will be incorporated into the work of the Ministry
of Education and Culture.
C. Project Monitoring and Evaluation
7.08      Project monitoring and evaluation will be carried out by the NFPCB
Deputy Chairman for Supervision and Control, the Bureau of Reporting and
Evaluation under the Deputy Chairman for Administration and Management, and
by the Bureau of Planning of the Ministry of Health. The NFPCB Secretariat
will prepare quarterly progress reports on the project for forwarding to the
Bank not more than eight weeks after the end of each quarter.



- 36 -
D. Implementation Schedule
7.12      The proposed project is scheduled for completion within four years.
The implementation schedule for construction and non-construction activities
during the project period is given in Annex 1, T-28 and T-29.
VIII. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
8.01     While it is difficult to calculate precisely the direct contribution
the project is likely to make toward the reduction of the fertility rate or
of maternal, infant and child mortality and morbidity, it can be stated that
the project will assist the GOI in reducing the fertility rate from 4.8 in
1979 to 3.5 by the end of REPELITA III in 1983/84. This will be a big step
toward the GOI's target of halving the 1971 fertility rate by 1990. Achieve-
ment of these targets would enable Indonesia to reduce its rate of population
growth substantially and would improve the prospects of rapid socioeconomic
development.
8.02      It is also difficult to estimate accurately the number of people
who will benefit from the project, but some 25 million people in the other
islands will have better access to family planning services as a result of the
intensification of family planning activities under the proposed project. The
IEC program will reach nearly all Indonesians, and the population education
compoment will have reached all 30 million students and their teachers by the
end of the project period. The strengthening of maternal and child health
services will directly benefit an estimated 20 million mothers and their
children.
8.03     The project will promote:  (a) better management of the family
planning program through improved working and training facilities; (b)
effective delivery of maternal and child health and family planning services;
(c) improved logistics for the storage and distribution of contraceptives,
and (d) closer supervision of family planning services, and expanded informa-
tion, education and communication activities, and population education. The
evaluation component built into the various components of the project will
enable the GOI to make general improvements in these important areas. All
these factors, which are the focus of the proposed project, will contribute
to the reduction in fertility and the rate of population growth. By improving
the health of mothers and children, the project will help to raise their
current and future productivity. The smaller families resulting from contra-
ceptive use will reduce the dependency burden, help to increase income per
capita, and improve the quality of life.



- 37 -
B. Risks
8.04     The main risks foreseen for the project are:  (a) that the 50 health
centers with 10-bed annexes will not be fully staffed on time; and (b) delays
in site acquisition may cause construction to fall behind schedule.
IX. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the GOI that:
(a) The NFPCB will prepare an overall plan for the production of
information, education and communication materials and submit
the plan to the Bank by December 31, 1980, for review (para 5.18);
(b) The Ministry of Education and Culture will prepare a plan
satisfactory to the Bank not later than June 30, 1981 for
evaluating the population education aspects of the project
(para. 5.30);
(c) The NFPCB will monitor in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the
operation and maintenance of all vehicles required for the
project until the completion of the project (para. 5.31);
(d) The MOH will review the programs and curriculum of the trainers
of TBAs and furnish a copy of the review to the Bank by
December 31, 1980 for comment (para. 5.38);
(e)  The MOH will prepare comprehensive training programs for
retraining nurses and midwives to become primary health nurses
and for training teachers of nursing schools in community
health and submit a draft of these programs to the Bank by
December 31, 1980 for review (para. 5.42);
(f) The MOH will ensure that a full complement of staff is assigned
to each of the 50 health centers and annex as and when the
annex is completed (para. 5.45);
(g) Adequate budgetary provisions for all project expenditures for
each forthcoming GOI fiscal year will be made in a timely manner
(para. 6.04);
(h) Separate project accounts will be established and maintained
by executing agencies for all project expenditures, and the
NFPCB will have the accounts for each GOI fiscal year audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and submit
copies of the audited accounts to the Bank no later than six
months after the end of each GOI fiscal year for review (para.
6.07);



- 38 -
(i)  The NFPCB will establish a Steering Group by December 31, 1980
consisting of representatives of the NFPCB, MOH, MOI and MOE
presided over by the NFPCB Deputy Chairman for Administration
and Management to coordinate the implementation of the project
(para. 7.01);
(j)  All land and rights in respect of land for the construction and
operation of the facilities included in the project will be
acquired according to a timetable satisfactory to the Bank
and evidence satisfactory to the Bank will be furnished
promptly after acquisition (para. 7.05).
9.02      With the above assurances, the project would be suitable for a Bank
loan of US$35.0 million, with a 20-year maturity, including a grace period of
5 years. The borrower would be the Republic of Indonesia.



INDONESIA: THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
SOCIOECONOMIC INDICATORS IN SELECTED COUNTRIES, 1979
Indonesia    Korea /4 Malaysia        Philippines       Singapore
Total Population (mln. est.) 1                           140.0         37.6       13.3             46.2            2.4
Population Density per sq. km.                            69          377         70              144          3,784
Percent Population Urban /1                               18           48         27               32            100
Crude Birth Rate /1                                       35           24         31               34             17
Crude Death Rate T                                        16            7          6               10              5
Rate of Natural Increase (Percent)/l                       1.9          1.7        2.5              2.4            1.1
Infant Mortality Rate /1                                 100           38         44               80             12
Per Capita Income (US$)                                  370          820        930              450          2,880         1
Percent GDP Derived from Agriculture, 1977 /2             31           27         26               29              2         w
Male Literacy /3                                          72           94         90               77             87
Female Literacy /3                                        50           84         62               76             67
Dependency Ratio; 1976 /3                                 81           71         84               86             56
Female Aged 15-44 Married (mln.), 1977 /3                 20.9          4.5        1.5              5.3             .28
Number of FP Users (mln.), 1977 /3                         5.7 /5       1.1        0.6              1.2              .2
Users as Percent of MWRA                                  27.1         44.2       39.4             22             77.1
Annual Per Capita Family Planning Budget in
(US$), 1976 /3                                     16           52 /6      28.5              5.8           41
FP Budget as Percent of Total National Budget,
1976 /3                                               .20          .18 /6    .11               .40           0.1
/1  Source:  Population Reference Bureau, 1979 World Population Data Sheet.  Data xe for mid-1979.
/2  Source:  World Development Report, 1979.  Data are for 1977, except for Indonesia (1978).
/3  Source:  Nortman and Hoffstatter, Population and Family Planning Programs, a Population Council
Fact Book, Fifth Ed'tion.
Z  Source:  IBRD, Staff Appraisal of a Population Project in the Republic of Korea, November 16, 1979.
/5  1979
T6  1978                                                                                                                      F



INDONESIA: THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE OF INDONESIA, 1961-1976 (Selected Years)
(In percentages)
1961 Census                    1971 Census                   1976 Survey 
Age Group          Males   Females   Total        Males   Females   Total        Males   Females   Total
0 -  4             17.8      17.6      17.7       16.5      15.8      16.1        15.0      14.2      14.6
5 -  9             16.2      15.6      15.9       16.3      15.5      15.9       15.3       14.5      14.9
10 - 14              9.1        7.9      8.5        12.6     11.4      12.0        13.3      12.0      12.6
15 - 19               8.1       7.9       8.0        9.6       9.6       9.6       10.6      10.8      10.7
20 - 24               7.3       8.9       8.1        6.2       7.4       6.8        7.4       8.3       7.8                 g
25 - 34             15.4       17.5     16.5        13.1     15.3       14.2       12.0      13.7      12.9
35 - 44             12.0      11.0      11.5       12.0      11.8      11.9        11.7      11.9      11.8
45 - 54               7.5       7.1      7.3         7.4       7.0       7.2        7.9       7.4       7.7
55 - 64               4.0       3.8       3.9        3.8       3.9       3.9        4.2       4.2       4.2
65+                   2.5       2.5      2.5         2.5       2.5       2.5        2.5       2.9       2.7
Not Stated            0.1       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.1       0.1       0.1
Total              100.0    100.0    100.0        100.0    100.0    100.0        100.0    100.0    100.0
/1 Excludes population of East Nusatenggara, Maluku and Irian Jaya.
Source: Central Bureau of Statistics.



INDONESIA: THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
TOTAL POPULATION AND AVERAGE ANNUAL GROWTH RATES FOR SELECTED YEARS, 1930-1976, AND POPULATION DENSITY BY PROVINCE, 1971-1976
Population                                                                                  Density
Census            s           Census/       Surve                     Growth Rate (E)                       (Persons/Sq Km)
1930           1961           1971          1976          1930/61        1961/71         1971/76          1971          1976
I.    Java and Bali                        42,819         64,776         78,223        84,400           1.3            2.1            1.7            'AA            NA
D"..I.Jakarta                       811           2,907          4,576         5,367          4.2            4.6             3.8           7,756        9,097
West Java                        10,586          17,615         21,633        23,454          1.7             2.1            1.8             467           507
Central Java                     13,706         18,407          21,877        23,558          1.0            1.7             1.7             640          689
East Java                        15,056          21,823         25,527        27,103          1.2            1.1             1.4             533           566
D.I. Jogjakarta                   1,559           2,241          2,490         2,625          1.2             1.6            1.2             786           828
Bali                              1,101          1,783           2,120         2,293          1.6            1.8             1.8             381          412
II.   Other Islands I                      13.251         24,084         30.474        34,105           2.6            2.7            2.4              46            52
Aceh                              1,003           1,629          2,009         2,226          1.6             2.1            2.3              36            40
West Kalimantan                      802          1,581          2,020         2,281          2.2             2.5            2.7               14           16
South Kalimantan                    835          1,473           1,699         1,846          1.8            1.4             1.9              45           49
Lampung                             361           1,668          2,777         3,439          5.1            5.2             4.9              83           103
West Nusatenggara                 1,016           1,808          2,202         2,401          1.9            2.0             1.9             109           119
South Sumatra                     1,378           2,773          3,444         3,871          2.3            2.2             2.7              33            37
West Sumatra                      1,910           2,319          2,793         2,994          0.6             1.9            1.6               56           60
North Sumatra                     2,541          4,965           6,623         7,467          2.2             2.9            2.7              56            60
North Sulawesi                       748          1,351          1,718         1,899          1.9            2.8             2.3              94           105
South Sulawesi                    2,657          4,517           5,189         5,681          1.7            1.4             2.1              71            78
III.  Other Islands II                      4.523          8.159         10.536        11,779           2.6            2.9            2.4               NA          NA
Bengkulu                            323             406            519           567          0.7             2.5            2.0              25            27
Jambi                                245            744          1,106         1,103          3.6             3.5            2.1               22           25
Riau                                493           1,642          1,642         1,843          3.0             3.1            2.6               17           19
Central Kalimantan                   203            497            700           812          2.9            3.5             3.3                5            5
East Kalimantan                     329             551            734           927          1.7             2.9            5.4                4            5
Central Sulawesi                    390             652            914         1,014          1.7             2.8            2.4               13           15
South East Sulawesi                 436             559            714           785          0.8             2.5            2.1              26            28
East Nusatenggara                  1,343          1,967           2,295         2,462          1.2            1.6             1.6              48            51
Maluku                               579            790          1,089         1,258          1.0             2.5            3.3               15           17
West Irian                           179            758            923         1,008          4.8             2.0            2.0                2            2
Timur-Timor                         NA             'NA             NA            NA            I              NA            _NA,
TOTAL                            60,593          97,019        119,233       130,284          1.5             2.1            2.0              63            68
NA - Not avaftrde. -
/1  Includes adjustment for the exclusion of Rural Irian Jaya.
/2  Includes adjustment for the exclusion of Rural Irian Jaya, Maluku and East Nusa Tenggara.                                                                            l 
Sources:  Population Census Reports for 1961 and 1971; 1976 Intercensal Population Survey; and 1975 Statistical Year Book.



-42-                                ANNEX 1
T-4
INDONESIA: THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
KNOWLEDGE AND PRACTICE OF FAMILY PLANNING METRODS
AMONG WOMEN 15-49
Percentage of Women 15-49
Have Been Using    Have Been Using
Province or           Have Heard       (of those who      a Program Method
Region              of a Method       have heard)       (of those using)
Java/Bali:
DKI Jakarta               65                 32                 77
West Java                 69                 20                 83
Central Java              NA                 NA                 NA
Yogyakarta                NA                 NA                 NA
East Java                 64                 44                 97
Bali                      65                 47                 95
Other Islanc,s:
Sumatra                   51                 13                 66
Sulawesi                  58                 12                 70
Kalimantan                30                 20                 54
Nusatenggara              52                 18                 40
Source: Government of Indonesia.



INDONESIA: THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
/1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS, 1980-2150--
(In millions)
1980    1985    1990    1995    2000    2025    2050    2075    2100    2125    2150
Population (in millions)             142.5   157.8   173.9   190.4   206.9   277.9   325.7   346.4   353.3   356.1   356.8
Population Below Age 5                39.0    42.6    45.3    47.1    48.1    46.0    46.5    46.6    46.6    46.6    46.6
Women in Reproductive Age(15-49)   29.5    33.7    38.0    45.4    50.4    70.3    77.5    78.4    78.5    78.6    78.6
Working Age Population(15-64)         66.4    77.4    87.7   101.4   113.0   174.8   208.9   209.5   219.7   220.7   221.2
(per thousand)
1975-80  1980-85  1985-90  1990-95  1995-2000  2025-30  2050-55  2075-80  2100-05  2125-30
Total Fertility Rate(per woman)    4.850    4.445    3.998    3.636    3.306             2.196    2.118    2.093    2.084    2.0682
Expectation of life at Birth
Females                        49.55    52.03    54.76    57.50    60.00           69.34    74.18    76.40    77.28    77.50
Males                          46.65    49.10    51.61    54.14    56.47           65.39    70.32    72.71    73.66    73.90
Birth Rate                           36.7      35.0     32.5      29.8      27.1        17.4      14.5      13.6      13.3      13_2
Death Rate                           16.2      14.6     13.1      11.6      10.5         8.9      10.7      12.6      12.9      13.1
Natural Rate of Increase(M)           2.05      2.04      1.94      1.82     1.66         0.85      0.38     0.10      0.05      0.01
/1   Prepared in connection with the Second World Development Report.
Assumes NRR of 1 by year 2020.
Ul 



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
T-6
INDONESIA: THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
FINANCING OF FAMILY PLANNING PROGRAM, 1969-1979
Fiscal Year     Government      Outside Sources      Total
(in US$'000)
REPELITA I
1969-70           289.1         2,041.0           2,330.1
1970-71         1,200.0         2,246.0           3,446.0
1971-72         3,614.5         3,795.4           7,409.9
1972-73         5,662.6        10,037.1         15,699.7
1973-74         6,024.1         5,890.4         11,914.5
REPELITA II
1974-75         9,161.4        13,190.3         23,071.7
1975-76        13,436.1        12,208.3         25,644.4
1976-77        16,014.4        17,131.7          33,146.1
1977-78        20,722.9        23,882.7         44,605.6
1978-79        17,600.0 /1      8,687.2         26,287.2
/1  Reflects the effect of the Nov. 15, 1978 devaluation; the actual
rupiah amount showed an increase.
Source: National Family Planning Coordinating Board.



INDONESIA: THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
NFPCB NEW ACCEPTOR TARGETS AND ACRIEVEDIETS DURING REPELITA
I, II AND TARGETS FOR REPELITA III (1969-1984)
Percentage of
Year                           Target                    Achievement                   Target Achieved
REPELITA I:
1969-70                           100,000                     53,103                         53.1
1970-71                           125,000                    181,059                        144.8
1971-72                           55U,000                    519,330                         94.4
1972-73                         1,OOU,000                 1,078,889                         107.9
1973-74                          L,252,nn                 1,369,07:7                        109.5
TOTAL REPELITA I:                              3,025,000                 3,201,458                        105.8
REPELITA II:
1974-75                         1,450,000                 1,592,891                         109.9
1975-76                         1,600,000                 1,966,565                         122.9
1976-77                         1,775,000                 2,212,790                         124.7
1977-78                         1,975,000                 2,248,468                         113.0
1978-79                         2,200,000                 2,215,884                         100.7
TOTAL REPELITA II                              9,000,000                10,236,618                        113.7
REPELITA III:
1979-80                         2,524,000
1980-81                         2,588,000
1981-82                         2,751,000
1982-83                         2,804,000
1983-84                         2,841,000
TOTAL REPELITA III:                           13,511,000
Source:  National Family Planning Coordinating Board.



INDONESIA: THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
PERCENTAGE OF NEW ACCEPTORS BY CONTRACEPTIVE METHOD CHOSEN, 1969-1979
Method Chosen (%)
Year                               Pill          IUD        Condom          Other
1969-70                             27.5         54.7        17.8
1970-71                             44.0         42.2         13.8
1971-72                             54.3         40.9          3.1            1.7
1972-73                             56.3         35.2          7.2            1.3
1973-74                             62.6         21.4         15.4            0.6
1974-75                             68.3         11.7        18.9             1.1
1975-76                             67.6         12.8         18.1            1.4
1976-77                             66.9         18.1         12.6            2.4
1977-78                             70.9         16.3          8.9            3.9
1978-79                             68.8         18.3          8.0            4.9
Source: National Family Planning Coordination Board.



INDONESIA: THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
DEMOGRAPHIC AND PROGRAM DATA BY REGIONS, MARCH 1979
Married               No. of                           ..   % of Users by Method             Total Fer-  Total Fer-
Women of             . Current        Y. of                  % of Users by Method            lity Rate   lity Rate
Province                   'Repr. Age (MWRA)      FP Users        MWRA        IUD        Pill      Condom     Others   1967-70        1978-79
I.     JAVA/BALI
Jakarta                        935,895             185,022          19MR      44.3        37.7       3.9        13.9        5.1           4.30
West Java                    3,766,796             870,096           23.1     17.0        79.2       0.6         2.9        5.9           4.74
Central Java                 3,791,175           1,387,464          36.6      22.7        64.3      10.3         2.4        5.3           3.99
Yogyakarta                     415,998             153,252           36.8     30.8        34.1      26.3         8.5        4.7           3.77
East Java                    4,305,570           2,286,215           53.1     34.6        61.4       2.3         1.5        4.7           3.08
Bali                           362.682             173,914           47.9     82.7         8.6       3.2         5.3        5.8           3.78
TOTAL                       13,578,116           5,055,963           37.2     30.2        61,8       5.0         2.8
IIo     OUTER ISLANDS I
Aceh                          360,509               23,730           6.6     13.9        74.4       5.1         6.4        6.2           5.89
North Sumatra               1,221,202              103,402           8.5     22.2        49.3      12.8        15.5        7.0           6.47
West Sumatra                  468,595               65,451          13.9     46.1        40.1       6.5         7.2        6.0            5.57
South Sumatra                 637,096               46,788           7.3     15.2        69.9       7.8         6.9        6.3           5.9
Lampung                       598,617               89,829          15.0      12.3       80.1       6.0         1.4        6.3           5.67
West Nusa Tenggara            382,412               39,763          10.4      27.0       67.3       2.3         3.2        6.5           6.05
West Kalimantan               375,452               21,712           5.8      29.3        63.9      3.6         3.0        6.1            5.8
South Kalimantan              294,402               43,131          14.6       7.1       88.3       1.9         2.5        6.4            5.66
North Sulawesi                305,290               70,852          23.2      46.3       42.6       0.9         9.9        6.7            5.53
South Sulawesi                915,798               68,074           7.4      13.3        74.6      4.4         7.5        5.6            5.26
5,559,373             572,732          10.3      23.8        62.7       5.9         7.3
III.    OUTER ISLANDS II
Riau                           300,063               4,213           1.4       1.4        77.b       9.4         4.1       NA              NA
Jambi                          182,835               4,724           2.6       2.6        77.2       7.6         6.3        NA             NA
Bengkulu                       108,931               7,884           7.2       3.4        87.4       7.4         1.6       NA              NA
East Nusa Tenggara            389,531                2,457           0.6      24.9        57.5       9.6         7.8        NA             NA
Central Kalimantan             135,680               4,522           3.3       2.6        86.7       7.6         2.9        NA             NA
East Kalimantan                143,929               7,729           5.4       6.7        79.6       5.7         7.8        NA             NA
Central Sulawesi               159,020               3,035            1.9     25.7        62.8       3.8         7.6        NA             NA
Southeast Sulawesi             125,417               2,613            2.1      2.6        82.8      10.8         3.6        NA             NA           H >
Maluku                         196,139                2,268           1.2     15.8        59.9       4.3        19.8        NA             NA
Irian Jaya                     27 345                1,586            5.8     25.4        59.7      11.7         3.0       NA              NA
1,768,960              41,031            2.3       9.5       77.2       7.4         5.7
Source:  National Farily Planning Coordinating Board:  Bureau of Reporting and Evaluatlon as of December 1979.



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
T-10
INDONESIA: THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
COMPARISON OF FIRST AND SECOND POPULATION PROJECTS AND PROPOSED THIRD PROJECT COMPONENTS
First Project Componentsl/            Second Proect_Components                     Third Project Components
1. MCH/FP Service Delivery
Construction of 95 MCH/FP             Provision of mobile service units            Construction of in-patient
Centers in East Java and              equipped with TUD and public                 annexes at 50 existing health
Bali and support for                  health nurse kits,                           centers in West and Certral
hospital and field post-                                                           Java; North, West and South
partum program.                                                                    Sumatra; and South Sulawesi.
Provision of transport for                                                         Construction, furnishing and
MCH/FP staff.                                                                      equipping of 21 provincial
warehouses in the Other Islands
anid 107 district warehouises ini
Other Islands I for storage and
distribution of contraceptives
and other supplies.
Salary support for 7,000
family planning fieldworkers
and supervisory staff.
2. Management
Construction, furnishing and          Construction, furnishing and                 Construction, furnishing and
equipping NFPCB headquarters          equipping of 10 NFPCB provincial             equipping of 11 NFPCB provincial
in Jakarta and 6 provincial           offices in Other Islands I.                  offices in Other Islands II and
offices in Java and Bali.                                                          107 district offices in Other
Islands I.
Technical assistance and                                                           Provision of motorcycles for
Fellowship support for                                                             field coordinators and supervisors
program management and                                                             to improve the supervision of the
implementation.                                                                    family planning program.
3. Training
Construction, furnishing and          Construction, furnishing and                 Construction, furnishing and
equipping of 6 NFPCB provincial  equipping of NFFCB National Family                equipping of 11 NFPCB provincial
training centers and 10 sub-          Planning Training Center and 10              training centers.
provincial training centers.          provincial training centers in               Other Islands II.
Other Islands I.
Construction, furnishing and                                                       Training of health center doctors,
equipping of 9 auxiliary                                                           nurses and midwives.
nurse/mi dwife training schools.
Training of traditional birth
attendants.
Provision of minibuses and
motorcycles for nurse training
schools.
4. Information, Education and
Communication (IEC)
Provision of 115 Mobile                                                            Provision of 50 Mobile
Information Units, technical                                                       Information Units.
assistance, fellowships and
studies for IEC activities.
Support for production of
TIEC materials.
5. Population Education
Support for pilot population          Support for introduction of                  Support for expansion and complete
education components.                 population education through                 integration of population education
preparation of textbook materials,           into the entire educational system,
for curriculum development, and              including non-formal education,
training of 30,000 teachers out              through the training of 50,000
of the total 130,000.                        teachers and 4,200 supervisors,
and provision of additional
textbooks.
6. Research and Evaluation
Technical assistance,                 Technical assistance, fellowships and
fellowships, studies and              equipment for a study of the feasibi-
seminars for research and             lity of providing and raw materials for
evaluation.                           local production of oral contraceptives
trom indigenous Indonesian plants.
Support for implementation of a pilot
community incentive scheme.
1/ Reflects revision of project cmponeuts of First Project (Cr. 300-IND).



INDONESIA: THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
EXPECTED TRAINING LOADS AT PROVINCLAI, TRAINING CENTERS IN OTHER ISLANDS lI, 1980-1984
Ftaa  Nag.-     Central         East            Central        S,E.                       Irian      Timor.
Riau      Jambi      Bengkulu      t.nggara       Kalimantan      Kalinnantan      Sulaweni      Slra.esi      M.alaku        JDy       Timur      Total
1   1980-61
Hospital FP Program/Staff             57          52           -            54              36              54              54             -             42         54         54
(Regency Level) LI
FP Clinic Personnel /2               120          95         120           160            160              473            145             72            110          -        100
NFPCB Administrative Staff           289         164         126           460             3501            269            131            137           156        427         254
and Fieldworkers /3
Local Authorities and Staff /4    409            256         168           577            430              400            337            215           262         777       464
SUBTOTAL                       875         567         414          1,251            976           1,196             667           424            570      1,258        872       9,070
II.  1981-82
Hospital FP Program Staff              -           -           -             72             36               -               -             -             42          -          -
(Regency Level) /1
FP Clinic Personnel /2               120          95         120           160             160             468             145            75            110        100        100
NFPCB Administrative Staff           575         518         480         1,074             579             612             510           428            850        809        513
and Fieldworkers /3
Local Authorities and Staff /4    390            266         505           636            374              428            332            328           337         760        499
SUBTOTAL                     1,085         879       1,105          2,753          1,149           1,508             987           831          1,339      1,669      1,112      14,417
III.  i982-83                                                                                                                                                                                                  a
Hospltal FP Ptogram Staff             57          52           -             54             16              54              54              -            42         54         54
(Regency level) /1
FP Clinic Per-onnel 12               120          95         120           160             160             473             145            72            110          -        100
NFPCB Ad.lnistrative Staff           586         614         428         1,060             744             577             581           357            753        775        489
and Fieldworkers /3
Local Authorities and Staff /4    329            256         203           577             430             400             337           215            262        777        464
SUBTOTAL                     1,092       1,017          751         1,851          1,370           1,504           1,117            644         1,167      1,606      1,107      13,226
IV.  1983-84
Hospital FP Program Staff              -           -           -             72             36               78              -              -            42          -          -
(Regency level) /1
FP Clinic Personnel /2               120          95         120           160             160             468             145             75           110        100        100
NFPCB Administrative Staff           540         754         554           994             779             768             726           461            743        801        403
and Fieldworkers /3
Local Authorities and Staff /4    390            342         235           657             382             428             332           328            337        773        512
SUBTOTAL                     1,050       1,191          909         1,883          1,357            1,742          1,203            864         1,232      1,674      1,015       14,120
TOTAL 1980-84                      4,102       3,654       3,179         7,738           4,852           5,950           3,974         2,763          4,308      6,207      4,106      50,883
/1  Includes doctors, paramedical personnel, and clerks.
12  Includes doctors, midwives, auxiliary midwives, and reporting and recording persn-el.
73  Includes provincial, regional, and  subdistrlct information officers, provincIal and re-ional logistIcs officers, s,obdistrlct FP coordinators, rearch
and evaluation officers, provincial and regional reporting and recording staff, SFPCB adninistrators, and village contraceptive distrlbution center oftic-als.
/4  Tn-iude- BSoatis, Supati staff, Conats, Canat staff, implenenting unit staff, ann  kev oersonne.
Source   National Familv Planning Coordinating Board.



INDONESIA: THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES: INFORMATION, EDUCATION AND COMMUNICATION ACTIVITIES, 1980-1984
(US$'000)
1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84       Local    Foreign       Total
A. Mobile Information Unit
1.  Vehicles (50) /1                                302.0      417.1                 71.9      647.2       719.1
2.  Audiovisual Equipment                           574.9      973.8                         1,548.7    1,548.7
3.  Maintenance                                       10.1      24.1       24.1      58.3       -           58.3
4.  Operating Cost                                   33.6       80.0       80.0     193.6                  193.6
B.  Public Address for Village
Acceptors Club                          1,906.9                                              1,906.9    1,906.9
C.  1.  Video Duplicator System               150.0                                                150.0       150.0
2.  Video Cassette                          7.7       7.7        7.7        7.7                 30.8        30.8
0
D. Video Tape Recorder for
Other Islands
1.  Video Monitor                         165.7                                                165.7       165.7
2.  Video Player                           98.4                                                 98.4        98.4
E.  Provincial Media Production Center        610.2     100.5      100.5      100.5     402.0 /2  509.7        911.7
F.  Film Production                           251.4     355.2      355.2      355.2   1,317.0        -       1,317.0
G.  Training/3_                                          147.0                          117.0       30.0       147.0
Subtotal                     3,190.3   1,531.0   1,958.4       567.5   2,159.8   5,087.4    7,247.2
Contingencies                  346.7      499.0     827.6      339.5      931.2   1,081.6    2,012.8    ij
TOTAL                        3,537.0   2,030.0   2,786.0       907.0   3,091.0   6,169.0    9,260.0
/1  29 replacements for Java and Bali and 21 new vehicles for other Islands, or a total of 50.
/2 Local cost for production.
/3  $15.0 of which is for fellowships; $15.0 for advisory assistance and the remainder for operating cost.
Source: Government estimates.



INDONESIA: Third Population Project
WORK PROGRAM FOR IEC ACTIVITIES, 1980-1984
Serial                                                                         Approx.        Size and
No.                Program                               Activities          Time            Number                 Remarks
1.       Mobjle IrtformatiQn Units <HIUs) -    Training Unit                Mid 1981            1          Training at Jakarta
MIUsl-                                  Exhibition                 1981-1982         49          Work in villages
MIUs                                    Sets of AVA Equip.         1981-1982         50
2.       Public Address Systems                  Use in villages               1981         5,500          Mothers Clubs & Communities
3.       Regional Media Production               Production equipment          1980             6          For use by field workers
Centers (RMPCs)                        for visual aids desig-
ned for local needs
4.       Video Production                        Duplicating taped             1981             2          Installed in regional TV stations
programs
Video Exibition -1                      Cassette players/            1982            46          Use at Kabupatan level
recorders
Video Exhibition                        Monitor/players              1982            27          Use at Kabupatan level & in MIUs
5.         Training                                Video technicians use         1981            50          Operators from the MIUs
and maintenance of
equipment
RMPC staff - 2               1981             12         Production of AVA materials and
per center                                               use of video equipment
Specialist to design and   1981                1         Three months
carry out video train-
ing courses
Stuldy tours for use of      1981             3          Philippines
video in rural situations
6.       Film Production                         Locally produced 1/2 hr.   1981-84            15          For use in MIUs
dramatic films in color
/1 Provided by GOI.



- 52 -
INDONESIA: THIRD POPULATION PROJECT                                         ANNEX 1
T-14
POPULATION EDUCATION INPUTS FOR FIRST AND SECOND PROJECTS AND LINKAGES WITH THIRD PROJECT/
School Programs                        I & II Projects                                     III Project
Number of Schools Inovolved               92P00 Primary School (SD)                       l2QO0O SD
8SWO  Junior Secondary (SMP)                     10,000 SMP ! All Schools under
3,600 Senior Secondary (SMA)                      4000 gMAJ the MOE
Number of Teachers Trained/               20p00 SD                                         25pO0  SD
to be Trained                            6,000 SMW                                         15DOO SMP
1,500 SMA                                        lO,OO SMA
Number of Supervisors Trained/           6003 SMP                                          3,500 SD Level
to be Trained                                J SMA                                         550 SHP Level
180 SMA Level
Number of Textbook Supplied/              4 Per School (SD)                                4 Per School (SD)
to be Supplied                            12 Per School (SMP)                              30 Per School (SMP)
12 Per School (SMA)                              40 Per School (SMA)
Number of Teachers Handbooks              1 Per School (SD)                                1 Per School (SD)
Supplied/to be Supplied                   3 Per School (SMP)                               5 Per School (SMP)
3 Per School (SMA)                               10 Per School (SMA)
Teaching Kits                            2000 to Kabupaten Provincesand                    4pOO to Kachamaten,SPG
Education Offices'
Supply of Projectors                     500 to Kabupaten and IKIPS                                ___
Cassettes for Radio Program                     -----                                      16,OOD(48 for each Kabupaten)
Out-of-School-Program
Training of Instructors                  6,750 PENMAS                                      160 Learning Centers (SKB)
PENILIN                                    1600 PENILIK
16,00 Village Workers
(Learning Groups)
Textbooks                                4,200(30 to each Training Center)                 200,000 Learning Center (SKB)
and Learning Group PArticipant. (SB)
Teachers Guides                           700 (5 to *a6 Traalagi Cemter)                   20,000tO  all Pemilika _d
Supplementary Reading Material                   ----200,000 Learning Ceter Particamt
Intra-Cotmtry Visit by Officials                 ----                                      150 Persons fro  Otbr Islanda
Cassettes for Radio Program                      ----                                      14,000(48 for each district)
Slide Projectors                                 ----                                      160 for all gR
Teacher Education
Teacher Education                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~120 Lect. from IKIPS
Training of Teacher Educators             240 Lecturers from IKIP                         1200 Lect, from SPG (included
900 Lecturers from SPG                           in SMA Training)
Advance Level Courses at IKIP                    ----                                      20 Students at Ed. S. Level
Library Strengthening                            ----                                      10 IKIPS
Fellowships                              90 Person-months                                  80 Pers6n-months
(IKIP and Other Edu. Officials)          (Short-term, Long-term)                           (Short-term, Long-term)
Abbreviations
IKIP----Teacher Training Institute         SKB---Learning Centers
MOE-----Xinistry of Education               SMA---Senior Secondary
PENILTK-Non-vormal Education nfficial  SMP--Junior Secondary
PENMAS_-Community Education                 SPG--Teacher Training School
SD--- ---Primary School
/1 Work undertaken in Projects I and II and projected for Project III.



H VF                                                                                           H                     0I,0.0,,,  s,XnN%s,:F6<><NMs' t>~nt0s-ezU
n~~~~~ o                             -                                                   H                                f                                                                                                                                                                    " uYp=On1X0  H  H  le    K
o~~ ~                                P gO H o H                                 HH p0 nH                                                       H    H     H O r.                'P     0   0 r          P        'P           H o'P'Pn>c n        o o o OH H   'P   HP &
n n~~~~-                                    o O~   P0    HO   H      H     P H                           'P      c    -            P    H       H        H       P         P       P        H        O   '          3    1           '0  '   P K  ' i      P n      n
'P n                  H O                                    nP    H                                                                                                               OP         P 0 g  njPHOe                                             
_   H.   O   r   [ r. r = n O O z X O P                                                                                            OFO
H   'P       H                                                                            o    >                        0 F  'P    P                                     I                                                                                             *  'P*ovO  
H ;zr59                                                                      H    H    'fi H    --    5PPP O                                                'Oo  H                                         uI OHP 0 P H H   H  OP    P  POPHHO   Hr         H         P 
Ho    H    P      H    P      P    O      H         Op                                                 'P    p         Po            PO                O            P                -O        P       OOOOOO             'pOp
-    0                         W -  HP P . p                 OH ~0                                                  O    H     PH '               O      P      H       ' I0 oP Po oPOL'                                                                     P       oooooooo
I PP                                     p           O _0                                            'P             0   PPoPo oo  op w  oPXoo                                      ooPoHoooP
H P H  10   P      |     -          0      PP          P P         -    o op                                 p            p p         'pp         P p         P           O   H      P1    H            p p P ' P p P P 1 0     H P P P P ' P
Vl   H              W     W              H     H     P 0H 00  0O                                                              p    P    HO      '     P              P O                        r-.P   P 0o0P aaP -   P        pH P     PO     P' P P P O
i  eL    X    |~~~  ~ 8  9    g  8     S  O ls    Ul              |                         1\   ,    z  r.> O O  t O  O O  OPa  OHH'PP     _H IPPHH PO-H<  P                                      oP o'PppoPPPPoPo'8$,
P  w                                   a              P w.  P  w        o'PHHPooo                                                                   o           Xoooo                                        o    ooo



- 54 -
ANNEX 1
T-16
INDONESIA:  THIRD POPULATION PROJECT                                   Page 1 of 2
WORK PROGRAM FOR POPUTATION EDUCATION, 1980-1984
Approximate
Serial No.   Program                 Activities                  time             Size & Number    Remarks
1.            In school program    Training of teachers                                              Training to be held at:
f'rimary school          1984            25,000 (SD)           Kecamaran level
Junior secondary                         15,000 (SMP)          Kabupaten level
Senior secondary                         10,000 (SMA)          Provincial level
SPG                                              (SPG)
Printing and production
of textbooks                1980-82          SD 400,000            4 per school
SMP 240,000          30 per school
SMA 120,000
SPG                  40 per school
Printing and production
of teachers handbook        1980-82          SD 120,000           One per school
SMP 40,000           5 per school
SMA 27,000           10 per school
Production of kits          198U-82          SD                    to be distributed
SMP _  4000          to Kecamatan, Kabupaten
SMA,                 and provincial offices
for training of teachers
Training of supervisors   1980-84            SD 3500               4 days
SMP 550
SMA 180              one week
Radio program               1980-84          Training of           10 days
script writers
one workshop
Purcdiase of cassettes                       Cassettes            A set of 40 cassettes
16,000               to be given to each
Wsbunaten fcr bi-monthly
broadcast
'ut of School         Training ot instructors   1980-84            SKB 160               regional level
(Non-Formal)                                                       Penilik 1,600         Kabupaten lex'ei
ciR l,cnan           vecar.atar level
Printing and production   1980-82            200,000               for participants
of textbooks                                 copies                in non-formal program
Printing of teachers        1980-82          20,000                for all Peniliks, SB
guides                                                            and SKB staff
Preparation of supplemen- 1980-81            one workshop          10 days at national
tary material                                40 persons
Production of supplemen-  1981-82            200,000 copies        for participants
tary material
Production of kits          1981-83          6000                  to be distributed to
SKB and Kecamatan
office of non-formal
education
Purchase of slide           1982             160                   to all SKBs
projectors
Purchase of slides          1981-83          10 sets of 25         to all SKBs
and production                               slides
Intra-country study         1981-84         150 persons           150 persons trom 10
tour                                                              Other Island 7 days
duration
Training of supervisors   1981-84            300 one from each   provincial level
district             5 days
Radio program               1981-84         14 days training
of script writers
Purchase of cassettes       1981-84          16,000                a set ot 48 to be
distributed to each
district



- 55 -
ANNEX 1
T-16
INDONESIA:  THIRD POPULATION PROJECT                                 P.;. 2 of 2
WORK PROGRAM FOR POPULATION EDUCATION, 1980-1984
Approximate
Serial No.    Program                Activities                    time            Size & Number       Remarks
3.             Teacher Education
Special course at
IKIP level (Sl.
Sarjana)
Preparation of               190-81          30 participants   National level workshop
curriculum                                   10 days             10 days
Preparation of textbook   1980-81            working group       to be farmed out to
and teaching package                         6 persons           IKIP and University
Honorarium and    teachers
meeting for
reviewing
Training of IKIP             1Y80-84         120 persons         10 days' duration
Lecturers and educa.                         10 days'duration
faculty we1rbers-      -
Strengthening libraries   1981-82            10 IKIPs
at 10 IKIPs
Developing Pasca Sarjana  1981-84            working group       a study group will prepare
(Ed.S.) Course at IKIP,                                          honorarium, meetings and
Jakarta                                                          administrative support
to be provided to this group
Developing course contact 1981-84             (bidang study)
and training
package, etc.
Special library for          1980-83           -                 for Pasca Sarjana Course
Jakarta,IKIP                                                      (Education specialist in
Population Education)
Honorarium to specialist  1982-84                                specialist will be invited
to teach: approximately
Stipend to 20 students    1982-84            24 months @         e80 per month to 20
80 oer month        candidates for 24 months
4.             Fellowships           Short-term study tours    1981-83             80.person/month   3 candidates for IKIP to
for school and out-of-                                           be sent for specialization
school for specializa4                                           36 person months, 44 man
tion in Pop. Ed. for                                             months for short-term
IKIP Program                                                     study tours
5.            Evaluation and         Evaluation at provincial  1981-84             2 provincial        Evaluation will include
Research               level and national level                      level 1 national  school,out-of-school and
level               Teacher Ed. programs-Money
for supervision will be
obtained from GOI (rupiah
budget).
Research projects con-    1980-84            Projects to be    IKIPs and University
cerned with program                          farmed at natio-
nal & provincial
levels
6.            Distrioution of        Distribution to provin-   1981-84             Textbook & teach- to be distributed at Kabu-
ces,Kabupaten and                            ing kits            paten & Kecamatan levels
Kecamatan
Abbreviations: IKIP--Senior Teacher Institutes, SB--Learning Group, SD--Primary School, SPG--Primary Training School,
SMA--Senior High School, SMP--Junior High School, SPG--Primary Training School.



- 56 -                                  ANNEX 1
T-1 7
INDONESIA: THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES: FIELD SUPERVISION, 1980-1984
(US$000)
1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  Local  Foreign   Total
Vehicleo(1,500 Motorcycles)  580.0    580.0    580.0        -      174.0  1,566.0   1,740.0
Contingencies                  63.0    125.0    183.0       _       53.1    317.9      371.0
Total                         643.0    705.0    763.0        -     227.1  1,883.9   2,111.0
Source: Mission estimate.



INDONESIA: ThiRD POPULATION PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES:  TRAINING OF IRALITIONAL BIRTH ATTENDANTS, 1980-1984
1980/81     1981/82      1982/83     1983/84      Local    Foreign       1oo1l
operating Costs
1.  National Level
Seminar Provincial MCH Doctors                                                              5.4                      5.4          -         10.8         -         10.8
Provincial MCH Midwives                                                                    17.9         -            _                      17.9         -         17.9
MCI Medical Doctors and Midwives    Participants consist of 6 doctors                       7.7         -            7.7          -         15.4         -         15.4
and 6 ,,idwives 2J
and 11 Ministry of Health staff:
Transport Cost   -  S3.8
Per Diem           -  $8.3
Training Cost    -  $3.3
Total             $15.4
2. Provincial Level
MCN Evaluation                                                                             32.0        32.0         32.0         32.0      128.0         -        128.0
Regency MCR Midwives                     Participants:  121 midwives2/                     66.2         17.4        17.4         17.4      118.4         -        118.4
Duration: 1st year: 28 days
2nd,3rd & 4th years: 7 days
Cost for Training:
Ist year:
Training Cost: 121 midwives
x 28 days x Rpl2,000 -
Rp4O,6 56,000
Transport Cost: Rp700,000
2nd, 3rd & 4th years:
Training Cost: 121 midwives
x 7 days x Rpl2,000 -
RplO,164,000
Transport Cost: Rp700,000
3. Regency Level
NC/MCH Midwives (604, Java & Bali)                                                         -           55.6        55.6         55.6      166.8         -        166.8
MCN Midwives (2,371)                     Participants:  MCH midwives                     221.6       221.6        221.6        221.6      886.4         -        886.4
from Health Centers!2
Duration: 7 days every year
Transport Cost: Rp5,729,000
Training Cost:   2,371 midwives
x 7 days x Rp8,000
Rpl32,776,000
4. Subdistrict Level
New TBAs (5,000/year)                                                                    154.5        157.2       157.2        154.5       623.4        -         623.4
Retraining TSAs (47,OuJ)                 Rp500 x 6 days x No. of TEAs                     62.4         91.2       120.0        148.8       422.4        -         422.4
retrainee annually, plng
other training expenses
Subtotal                                                                                        567.7        575.0       616.9        629.9   2,389.5           -      2,389.5
Price Contingencies                                                                              85.3        185.0       280.1        378.1       928.5        _         928.5
TOTAL                                                                                           653.0        760.0       897.0      1,008.0   3.318.0
89.0            1OO0        331  0          -      3,318.0
Source: Government estimates.
1/ Includes training, transport costs and per diem.
2/ From 6 provinces (2 in Java and 4 in Other Islands 1)



INDONESIA: THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES: TRAINING OF NURSES AND MIDWIVES, 1980-1984
(US$000)
1980/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84        Local      Foreign      Total
A. Retraining Nurses and Midwives
Vehicles /1                     1 mini-bus and 3 motorcycles
for each of 9 provinces                            155.8         -           -         15.6        140.2       155,8
Special Equipment
Projectors                   I for each of 9 provinces                1.0         -           -           -           -           1.0         1.0
Teaching Equipment           21 for each of 9 provinces               8.9         -           _           _           _           8.9         8.9
Books                        $3,000 for each of 9 provinces          27.0         -                                  L3.5        13.5        27.0
Fellowships                     18 persons @ $432 each                    -          7.8         -           -           7.8         -           7.8
Operating Costs
Training Costs               1,080  nurses and midwives             152.5       152.5       152.5       152.5       610.0         -         610.0
Workshops and Seminars                                               32.5        32.5        32.5        32.6       130.1         -         130.1
Subtotal                                                       221.9       348.6       185.0      185.1       777.0       163.6       940.6
B.  Teacher Reorientation
Vehicles  /1                    1 for each of 4 schools                              55.4        -           -           57         49.7        55.4    C
Special Ecujipment
Projectors                   I for each of 4 schools                  0.4         -           -           -           -           0.4         0.4
Books                        $3,000 for each of 4 schools            12.0         -           -           -           6.0         6.0        12.0
Fellowships                      7 persons @ $432 each                    -           3.0        -           -           3.0         -           3.0
Operating Costs
Training Costs               960 teachers                           168.4       168.4       168.4       168.3       673.5         _         673.5
Workshop and Seminar                                                  19.0       19.0        19.0        19.0        76.0         -          76.0
Subtotal                                                       199.8       245.8       187.4       187.3      764.2        56.1       820.3
Total A & B                                                                 421.7       594.4      372.4       372.4    1,541.2       219.7      1,760.9
Price Contingencies                                                         224.3       271.6      169.6       223.6       743.8      145.3        889.1
TOTAL                                                                       646.0      866.0       542.0       596.0    2,285.0       365.0      2,650.0
/1  To be financed by the GOI, others by IBRD.
Source:  Government estimates.



-  5 9 -                            ANEEX 1
T-20
INDONESIA: THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
STAFFING PATTERN FOR HEALTH CENTER WITH AND
WITHOUT TEN-BED IN-PATIENT ANNEX
Number of Staff
Existing                 With 10-Bed
Staff                   Health Center           In-Patient Annex
Medical Doctor                              1                          1
Nurse                                       1                          3
Midwife                                     1                          2
Sanitarian                                  1                         1
Dental Nurse /1                             1                         1
Auxiliary Nurse/Midwife                     3                          3
Clerk                                       1                         2
Night Watchman                              0                          1
Total                                       9                        14
/1 Shared between three health centers.
Source: Ministry of Health.



INDONESIA: THIRD POPUIATION PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES:  TRAINING OF DOCTORS, OTHER HEALTH STAFF AND COMMUNITY LEADERS, 1980-1984
(US$000)
1982/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84       Local       Foreign       Total
A. Fellowships
Study Tours in Asian         Groups of 5 Paramedical Staff and one                  29.0       29.0      29.1       29.1         -         116.2         116.2
Countries for 48 Staff       Health Center (HC) Doctor, twice a year
Per Diem:  6 participants X 2 times X 28 days
X 4 years X $40= $53,760
Transport: 6 participants X 2 times X 4 years
x $1,300 = $62,400
Clinical Training of         50 Doctors X $3,600; 15 Doctors for 1st and            54.0       54.0       72.0       -         180.0         -           180.0
50 HC Doctors                2nd years; 20 Doctors in 3rd year                                                                   _        _                _
Subtotal                                                                         83.0       83.0     101.1       29.1       180.0       116.2         296.2       C
B.  Operating Cost
Seminars for Health          Per Diem:  30 participants X 8 days X 4 years          15.3       15.3      15.3       15.2        61.1         -            61.1
Center Staff                             X $33.6
Transport: 30 participants X 4 years X $240.0
Administrators, Kecamatan    Same as above                                          15.3       15.3       15.3      15.2        61.1         -            61.1
and Kabupaten Level
Village Community Leaders   Per Diem:  60 participants X 5 days X 4 years            9.1        9.1       9.1        9.1        36.4         -            36.4
x $27.2
Transport: 60 participants X 4 years X $16
Subtotal                                                                         39.7      39.7       39.7       39.5       158.6         -           158.6
TOTAL A & B                                                                               122.7      122.7      140.8      68.6       338.6       116.2         454.8
Contingencies                                                                              16.7       35.3       58.3      37,9       118.4        29.8          148.2   '
TOTAL                                                                                     139.4      158.0      199.1     106.5       457.0        L46A0        603.0
Source: Government estimates.



IN0OSESIA: THtRD POPULATION PROJECT
SUMtlARY OF COST ESTIMATES FOR CIVIL WORK3
BANK                                                                      GOT                                      TOTAL CIVIL WORKS COSTS
Number         RNpiaha (Millions)                     US$OOO Dollars                    Ripha_s (Millions)                    us$55  Dollars                      US$OOO DollasT
Ministry  of Unit.       Local    Foreign        Total        Local    Foreign       Total       mi1 i    Foreign        Total        LocoI    Foreign         Total   Local    Foreign   Total
M  CONSTRUCTION
a)  Populaion Center. (O.1.II)              NFPCB       11       3,533.4    1,116.0    4,649.4         5,653.4    1,705.6      7,439.0   1,408.3        -         1,488.3      2,381.3        -         2,381.3    8,034.7  1,785.6   9,820.3
b)  Provincisl Warehouse. (0.1.I)           NFPCB       10          429.0       135 5       564.5        686,4       216.8       903.2      186.9       -           166.9         299.0       -           299.0       985.4    216.8   1,202.2
c)  District Officca (O.l.I)                NFPCB      107       2,777.8        877.2    3,655.0       4,444.5    1,403.5    5,848.0   3,239.2          -         3,239.2       5,182.7       -         5,182.7    9,627.2  1,403.5  11,030.7
d)  NC In-Patient Facilities                MON         50        1L228.5       3BB.o   1.616.5        1,965.6       620.8    2,586.4       689.2       -           689.2      11_02,7                  1.102.7    3,068.3    620.8   3,689.1
Total                                                      7,968.7     2,516.7   10 485.4    12,749.9    4,026.7   16,776.6   5,603 6            -         5,603.6       8,965.7       -         8,965.7   21,715.6  4,026.7  25,742.3
Physical Contingencies at 10M                                796.9       251.6    1,048.5       1,275.0       402.7    1,677.7       560.4       _            560.4        896.6       -            896.6    2,171.6    402.7   2,574.3
Total Construction Basa Coat                8.765.6    2.768.3   11L5339                       14,02949    4,429.4 I1,454.3   6.164.0             -         6, 164.0     9,862.3    --            9,862.3   23.B7.2  4,429.4  28,316.6
2. PROFESSIONAL FEES AND SUPERVISION
a)  Papolation Cnnters (0.1.1I)            NFPCB        11          518.0        70.6       588.6        828.8       113.0       941.8            -                 -                   -                 -           828.8    113.0        941.8
b)  Provincial Warshoses (0.1.1)            NFPCB       10                                                                       -           -            -                                                              -         -
c)  District Offices (0.1.1)               NFPCB       107          450.3        61.4       511.7        720 5        96.2       818.7      -           -           -             -           -           -           720.5       98.2      816.7
d)  RC In-Patient Facilities                 OHO        50          145.5        19.8       165.3        232.8        31.7       264.5      -                                                  _                      232.8       31.7      264.5
Total                                                      1,113.8       151.8    1,265.6       1,782.1        242.9    7,025.0                   - _                      -                                  1,782.1    242.9   2,025.0
Physical Contingencies at 107.                               111 4         15.2       126.6       178.2         24.3       202.5      -           -           -            -            -           -           178.2      24.3      202.5
Total Profesoionel PFes and
Sopervision Sase Cost                                      1.225.2       167,0    1.392.2       1,960.3        267.2    22            -           -_                                                          1,960.3    267.2   2.22 7.5
3.  FURNITURE
a)  Popolstion Centers (O.l.II)             NFPCB       11                     -           - _                                   -           942.0       179.5    1,121.5       1,507.2        287.1    1,794.3    1,507.2    287.1   1,794.3
b)  Provinciai  W-rehon..a (8.1.1)          NFPCB       10         ---                                                                                                                         -
c)  DiaLrict Offices (0.1.1)                NFPCB      107                                                                                   5 -  -  _ -  598.2  114.0  712.2      957.0       182.3    1,139.3        957.0    182.3   1,139.3
d)  itC In-Patient Facilities              MON          50                                                          -                        101.8        19.4       121.2        162,9         31.1       194.0       162.9      31.1      194.0
Total                                                        -           -           ----                                           1,642,0       312,9    1,954,9        2,627.1       300.5    3,127,6    2,627.1    500.5 ~3,127.6
Physical ContingencIes at 107.                                                 -           -                  -                       164.2        31,3        195.5        262,7        50.1       312.6       262,7      50.1      312.6
Total Furniture B.sa  Cent                                   -           -           -            -           -           -         1,806.2       344.2    2,150.4        2.889,8       550.6    3.440.4    2,889,8    5S0.6    3,440.4
4. EQUIPMENT
a)  Population Centara (0.1.l)            NFPCB        11         -            544.1       544.1        -           870.6       878.6       242.9       -           242.9        388.7                    388.7       368.7    670.6   1,259.3
b)  Provincial Warehomoes (0.1.1)           NFPCB       10                      -           -
:)  District Offices (0.1.I)               NFPCB      107          -            558.9       558.9                    894.2       894.2       249.4       -           249                                   399.1       399 1    894 2   1,293.3
d)  RC Is-Patient Facilities                MOhI        50                      105.7       105.7                    1 88. .0         0       51.6         _          5.           B5.27
Total                                                                   1,208.7    1,208.7                   1,952.8    1,952,8       543.9                    543.9        870.3                    870.3       870.3 1,952.8   2,623.1
Physiral  aontingenciro  0t 107%                                          120.9       120.9                    195.3        195.3      54.4                     5 34.4       87.0                     67.0        87,0    195.3       282.3
Total Equipment Base Cost                                    -          1,3296     1,529.6        -          2,146.1    2,148.1       598.3        -          598.3         957.3                    957,3    __9573 2,148.1    3,105.4
NFPCB AND MOE COMBINED
1.  CNnFtPCction                            NFPCB/MOE    178          7,968.7    2,516.7   10,485.4    12,749.9    4,026.7   16,776.6    5,603.6             -         5,603.6      8,965.7        -         8,965.7   21,715.6  4,026.7  25,742.3
2.  Profeaional Faee  nod Supervision    NFPCB/MC8                   1,113.8       151.8    1,265.6       1,782.1       242.9    2,025.0        -           -           -             -           -           -         1,782,1      242.9   2,025.0
3, Furnitura                                MFPCB/MOE                                                                   .                      1,642.0       312.,9    1.954.9       2,627.1       120.5     3,127.6    2,627.1       500.5   3,127.6
4.  Equipment                                NFPCB/MOH                  -         1,208.7    L208.7              -    1j.95        1,952.8       543 9       -            543.9        8703 37 -             - 0 3              -   2,823.1  2, 823.1
Physical C9ntingnci2 at 10                                   9,082.       3,877,2   12,909.7    14,532.0       6,222,4  20,754,4    7,789,5         312.9      8,102.4    12,463.1         500.5   12,963.6   26,124.6   7,593,2  33,718. 9
Phy i.-I Cl.ti~ge-i.. at 10%                   906.3        387.7    1,296.0      1,453.2        672.2    2,075,4        778.9       91.3        610,2       1,746.3        10.1    1,596,4    2~,612.5       719.4   3,371.9
Total Cost of Civil Works                                    9.990,8    4264.9   14,255.7    15985. 2    6.B44.6  22,829.8    8.568.4                344.2     8,912.6    13.709.4         550.6   14.260.0   26.737.3  8,352.6   37.089.9
NOTE No. 1:   The Popolation Casters in this table include - (a)  NFPCB Provincial Offices;                                                                       NOTE No. -2:  The clement shown as COl Financed  Costs
(b)  Provincial Traicing Centers:  sd (t)  Provincial Warebo.ses for storage                                                                                     in this table appeors in other tables as
of cotr.aceptives.                                                                                                                                               "Site Develop-ent."



INDONESIA, THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES BY FUNCTIONAL AND EXPENDITURE CATEGORIES, 198001984
(in US$000)
Specia1                Advisory                 Operating                  Physical           Prtce            Total
CiFil Works  Equipsent  Vehicles  Assistance  Fellowships   Costs            Subtotal   Contingencies  Conting.nci.i   Contingenciea    Local            Foreign         Total
A.  Popolati.n and Family PI-nning HMnageent
I.  ii provincial casters                ~~~~3,730.2     -           -                       -                       3,730.2          373.0         1.146,8          1.519.8        4,028.9       1,221.1         5.250.0
2.  107 Ditrncit OffCnte                                3, 2 8 2                                                                  14 282.0 1G428.                 4,532.8          5,961.0       16,385.1       3.85           20;243.10
Subtotal                                     18,012.2        -           _           _           _                       18,012.2       1,801.2         5,679.6          7,480.8       20,414.0       5,079.0         25,493.0
B.  T-aiSti
3.  IlProvi.moia1 Training Centers                      7,598.7                    -           -           _            _          7,598.7          759.9         2,441.4          3,201.3        8,748.0       2,052.0        10,800.0
4.  Training of Medic-l and Pata.sedEtal 8taff: 
(a)Tr Ni.i.g  f  dEivaa.dP-di.   S.f                   -              49.3       211.2       -10.8                  1,489.8      1,760.9                          889.1           889.1         2,285.0        385.0          0,650.0    ~
(b)  Tradition I Birth Attendants                    -            -           2           -           -          2,389.5      2,389.5          -               928.5            928.5        3,318.0         -             3,318.10
Hc)Nelth Canter OStaff-                                                     -                       298.2        158.6        454.8         -148.2                           148.2           457.0        E46.0            603.0
Subtotai                                      7,598.1         49.3       211.2       -           307.0       4,037.7    12,203.9          759.9         4,407.2         5,167.1        14,808.0      2,563.0         17,371.0
C. MCH/FP Service Dellvery
5.  Upgrading of 50 NHalth Centers                      4,418.         -           -           -           -            -          4,418.1          441.8         1,639.1         2,080.9         5,215.0      1,284.0          6.499.0
6.  Field  npervtsio.                                     _            _         1,740.0       -           _            _           1,740.0         -               371.0            371.0          227.1      1,883.9          2,111.0
7.  21 Contrneptive Wrh .                              3,689.          _           -           _           -                            9.          368.9         1112.1          1481.9          4,137.0      1,033.0          5,170.0
subtotal                                      8,107.1        -         1,740.0       -           -            -          9,847.1          810.7         3,122.2         3,932.9         9,579.1      4,200.9         13,780.0
D.  IEC Activtties                                            -          4,410.3       719.1        15.0         15.0      2,087.8      7,247.2         -             2,012.8          2,012.8        3,091.0       6,169.0         9,260.0
E. Popletio.. Ed i...tt                                       -             32.8       -                       120.0      4,814.9      4,967.7          -             1,728.3          1,728.3        6,506.0         190.0         6,696.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                     33,718.0     4,492.4    2,670.3          15.0       442.0    10,940.4    52,278.1         3,371.8         16,950.1        20,321.9       54.398.1    i8.201.9           72,600.4



ANNEX 1
- 63-                                             T-24
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA: THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
FIlWICING PLAN BY EXPIDITUIX AND FUNCTIONAL CATEGORIES
(in US$000)
Functional and Expenditure Category              IBRD             GOI             Total
A. FP/Population Management
1.  Provincial Centers
a. Construction                                   2,008.4            -              2,008.4
b. Professional Fees and Supervision                254.3            -                254.3
c. Equipment                                        235.1           104.9             340.0
d. Furniture                                         -              484.5             484.5
e. Site Development                                  -              643.0             643.0
Subtotal                                    2,497.8          1,232.4          3,730.2
Physical Contingencies                        249.8           .123.2            373.0
Price Contingencies                             -            1,146.8          1,146.8
Total                                       2,747.6         2,502.4           5,250.0
2. District Offices
a. Construction                                  5,848.0             -             5,848.0
b. Professional Fees and Supervision               818.7             -               818.7
c. Equipment                                       894.2            399.1          1,293.3
d. Furniture                                        -             1,139.3          1,139.3
e. Site Development                                 -             5,182.7          5,182.7
Subtotal                                    7,560.9         6,721.1          14,282.0
Physical Contingencies                        756.1            672.1          1,428.2
Price Contingencies                           312.0         4,220.8           4,532.#
Total                                       8,629.0        11,614.0          20,243.0
B. Training
3.  Population Training Center
a. Construction                                  4,091.5             -             4,091.5
b. Professional Foam asd Suprvision                51S.0             -               516.0
c. Equipment                                       478.8            213.8            692.6
d. Furniture                                        -               966.9             966.9
e. Site Development                                 -             1,309.7          1,309.7
Subtotal                                    5,088.3         2,510.4           7,598.7
Physical Contingencies                        508.8            251.1            759.9
Price Contingencies                             -           2,441.4           2,441.4
Total                                       5,597.1         5,202.9          10,800.0
4.  Training of Nurses and Midwives                     _               211.2             211.2
a. Vehicles212212
b. Special Equipment                                32.3             17.0             49.3
c. Fellowship                                       10.8             -                10.8
d. Operating Cost
Nurses/Midwives                               740.1                             740.1
Teacher Reorientation                         749.5                             749.5
Subtotal                                    1,532.7           228.2           1,760.9
Price Contingencies                           604.7           284.4             889. 1
Total                                       2,137.4            512.6          2,650.0
5. Training of TBAs
a. Operating Cost:
Seminar at the National Level                                   44.1             44.1
Training of 121 MCH Midwives at
Provincial Level                            118.4             -               118.4
MCH Evaluation                                 -               128.0            128.0
Training of 2371 MCH Midwives at
Regency Level                               886.4             -               886.4
Training of 604 MCH Midwives
(Java/Bali) at Regency Level                 -              166.8             166.8
Training of new TBAs (5,000/Year)              -               623.4            623.4
Retraining of TBAs                             -               422.4            422.4
Subtotal                                    1,004.8         1,384.7           2,389.5
Price Contingencies                            -               928.5            928.5
Total                                       1,004.8          2,313.2          3,318.0



ANN4EX 1
64-                                              T-Z
INDONESIA: THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
FrlIAPC UNB PLA   81u   De TURn   AND FuCTrnAL CAUGMIES
(in MOW00
Functional and Extenditure Category                   IBRD              GOI              Total
6. Health Center Staff
A. Fellowship                                          296.2             -                 296.2
b. Operating Cost                                      -                158.6              158.6
Subtotal                                         296.2            158.6              454.8
Price Contingencies                               -                148.2             148.2
Total                                            296.2            306.8              603.0
C. MCH/FP Services Delivery
7.  Upgrading of 50 Health Centers
a. Construction                                     2,586.4              -              2,586.4
b. Profesaioual Fees and Supervision                  264.5              -                 264.5
c. Equipment                                           188.0             82.5              270.5
d. Furniture                                            -               194.0              194.0
a. Site Development                                    -              1,102.7           1,102.7
Subtotal                                       3,038.9          1,379.2            4,418.1
Physical Contingencies                           303.9            137.9              441.8
Price Contingencies                               -             1,639.1            1,639.1
Total                                          3,342.8          3,156.2            6,499.0
8.  Field Supervision
a. Vehicles                                            -              1,740.0           1,740.0
Price Contingencies                               -               371.0              371.0
Total                                             -             2,111.0            2,111.0
9.  Contraceptive Warehouses (21)
a. ConatrtotiOl                                     2,242.3              -              2,242.3
b. Profassoal lees and Superflioe                     169.3              -                169.5
c. Equipment                                          156.7              70.0              226.7
d. Furniture                                            -               322.9              322.9
e. Site Development                                    -                727.6              721.6
Subtotal                                       2,568.5           1,120.5           3,689.0
Physical Contingencies                           256.8            112.1              368.9
Price Contingencies                               -             1,112.1            1,112.1
Total                                          2,825.3          2.344. 7           5,170.0
D. 10.  IEC Activities
a. Vehicles                                            -                719.1              719.1
b. Equipment                                        4,410.2              -              4,410.2
c. Fellowship                                          15.0              -                  15.0
d. Advisory Services                                   15.0              -                  15.0
e. Operating Cost:
Film Production                                   -             1,317.0            1,317.0
Media Production Center                                           402.0              402.0
Others                                            -               368.9              368.9
Subtotal                                       4,440.2          2,807.0            7,247.2
Price Contingencies                               -             2,012.8            2,012.8
Total                                          64A40L2          4,SRl9R            9 260.0
E. 11.  Population Education
a. Equipment                                            21.3             11.5               32.8
b. Fellowship                                         120.0              -                 120.0
c- Operating Cost
In-School Program                              3,559.0             -               3,559.0
Out-of-School Program                             -                976.6             976.6
Teacher Education                                279.3                               279.3
Subtotal                                       3,979.6             988.1           4,967.7
Price Contingencies                               -             1,728.3            1,728.3
Total                                          3,9796           2,716.4            6,696.0
Totals
Construction                                       16,776.6              -             16,776.6
Equipment                                           0,416.7             898.8           7,315,5
Profeasional FOas, Advisory Services
and Fellowships                                   2,482.0              -              2,482.0
Furniture                                             -               3,127.6           3,127.6
Site Development                                      -               8,965.7           8,965.7
Vehicles                                              -               2,670.3           2,670.3
Operating Cost                                      6,332.1           4,607 8          10,940.4
Subtotal                                     32,007.9           20,270.2          52,278.1
Contingencies                                 2,992 1           17,329.8          20,321.9
Total                                        35 0000            37,600.0



ANN. IL
INDONESIA: THIRD POpULATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED CMKITMENTS OR EXPENDITURES BY YEAR AND EXPENDITURE CATEGORIES
(in US$000)
1980/81     1981/82      1982/83      1983/84      TOTAL
Support for Family Planning/Population Program/I
1.  Civil Works /2                                       7,979.0    16,109.9      4,940.5       270.5      29,299.9
2.  Vehicles                                               580.0        580.0        580.0          -       1,740.0
3.  Contingencies                                       2,119.4       7,059.6     3,148.5       205.6      12,533.1
Subtotal                                           10,678.4    23,749.5       8,669.0       476.1     43,573.0
Support for Maternal and Child Health Program /3
1.  Civil Works /2                                       1,010.0      1,270.0     1,590.0       548.1       4,418.1
2.  Special Equipment                                       49.3           -            -          -           49.3
3.  Vehicles                                                  -         211.2           -          -          211.2
4.  Fellowships                                             83.0         93.8        101.1        20.1        307.0
5.  Operating Costs                                        979.8        987.1     1,029.0    1,041.8        4,037.7
6.  Contingencies                                          563.9     1,069.4      1,466.3       948.1       4,047.7
Subtota3                                            2,686.0      3,631.5      4,186.4    2,567.1       13,071.0
Support for IEC
1.  Special Equipment                                    2,838.4        582.7        981.5        7.7       4,410.3
2.  Vehicles                                                  -         302.0        417.1                    719.1
3.  Advisory Assistance and Fellowships                       -          30.0           -          -           30.0
4.  Operating Costs                                        351.9        616.3        559.8      559.8       2,087.8
5.  Contingencies                                          346.7        499.0        827.6      339.5       2,012.8
Subtotal                                            3,537.0      2,030.0      2,786.0       907.0       9,260.0
Support for Population Education Program
1.  Special Equiplent                                         -          32.8           -          -           32.8
2.  Fellowships                                               -          40.0         40.0       40.0         120.0
3.  Operating Costs                                        713.3     2,819.1         654.1      628.4       4,814.9
4.  Contingencies                                          107.0        921.8        308.4      391.1       1,728.3
Subtotal                                              820.3      3,813.7      1,002.5    1,059.5        6,696.0
TOTAL                                                   17,721.7    33,224.7    16,643.9    5,009.7        72.600.0
/1  Includes the following components:  11 Population Centers, 11 PTCs, 107 District Offices, 21 Warehouses and
motorcycles for field supervision.
/2  Includes construction, furniture, equipment, professional fees and site development.
/3  Includes the following components:  Upgrading of 50 Health Center and training of nurses, midwives,
TBA trainers, TBAs, Health Center medical and paramedical staff, local administrators and community leaders.



- 66 -                                  ANNEX 1
T-26
INDONESIA: THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS, 1981-1984/1
IBRD Fiscal Year          Amount (In US$ millions)           Cumulative X of
and Quarter          End of Quarter       Cumulative     Total Loan Amount
FY81
March 1981                1.00              1.00                 3
June 1981                 1.00              2.00                 6
FY82
September 1981            1.20              3.20                9
December 1981             1.21              4.41               13
March 1982                1.97              6.38                18
June 1982                 2.42              8.80               25
FY83
September 1982            3.46              12.26              35
December 1982             3.56              15.82              45
March 1983                3.72              19.54              56
June 1983                 3.56              23.10              66
FY84
September 1983           2.92               26.02               74
December 1983             2.48              28.50               81
March 1984                2.12              30.62               87
June 1984                 2.12              32.74               94
FY85
September 1984           1.68               34.42              98
December 1984              .58              35.00              lOQ
/1 Based on schedule of key project actions shown in Annex 1, T-24



ANNEX 1
T-27
Pooe I of 3
INDONESIA: THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF KEY PROJECT ACTIONS TO_MEET THE
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE/1
Actions                                                  Latest Dates to      Agency
Complete Action      Responsible
A. Training
1. Drawing up of specifications, tendering           February 1981         MOH
and awarding of contracts for the purchase
of medical equipment and training aids
for nurse midwives training programs
2. Delivery of medical equipment and teaching         September 1981       MOR
aids referred to above
3. Reorientation of 960 teachers in four
nurse training schools in groups of 120
(a) first group                                   December 1980        MOH
(b) second group                                  June 1981
(c) third group                                   December 1981
(d) fourth group                                  June 1982
(e) fifth group                                   December1982
(f) sixth group                                   June 1983
(g) seventh group                                 December 1983
(h) eighth group                                  June 1984
4. Completion of local fellowship program
for nurse and midwives conversion training        October 1981         MOH
5. Fellowship for nursing school teachers             June 1981            MOR
reorientation
6. Training of doctors and midwives as trainers
in six provinces for TBA training program                              MOR
(a) first seminar, national level                 June 1981
(b) second seminar, national level                June 1983
7. Training of district MCIH midwives (121)
as trainers for TBA training program                                   MOR
(a) basic training                                November 1980
(b) refresher training                            Novemberl981
(c) second refresher training                     November 1982
(d) third refresher training                      November 1983
/1 This schedule is the basis for estimating the disbursement schedule shown in
Annex 1, T-2 7.



-68 -
ANNEX 1
T-27
'Page 2 of 3
INDONESIA: THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF KEY PROJECT ACTIONS TO MEET THE
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE /1
Latest Dates to      Agency
Actions                                                Complete Action      Responsible
8. Training of health center MCH midwives              September 1984       MOH
(2,371 in 121 kabupatens)
9. Clinical training of 50 health center doctors                            MOH
(a) first group of 15                              June 1981
(b) second group of 15                             June 1982
(c) third group of 20                              June 1983
10. Study tours for health center staff, in                                  MOH
groups of 12
(a) first group                                    June 1981
(b) second group                                   June 1982
(c) third group                                    June 1983
(d) fourth group                                   June 1984
B.  Information, Education and Communication Activities                           NFPCB
11. Drawing up of specifications, tendering and         September 1980
awarding of contracts for the purchase of
audiovisual equipment
12. Delivery of audiovisual equipment                   Nov. 1981 - Nov. 1982
13. Study tour for video technicians                    June 1981
14. Hiring of consultant for video training             Aug. 1981
C.  Population Education (In-School Program)                                      NFPCB and MOE
15. Printing and production of textbooks,
teachers/handbooks and training kits               June 1982
16. Training of teachers
(a) primary school level                           September 1984
(b) junior secondary school level                  September 1984
(c) senior secondary school level                  September 1984
17. Tendering and awarding of contracts for            May 1981
slide projectors (160)
18. Delivery of slide projectors                       December 1981
19. Fellowships for population education
(3 persons for 1 year each)
(a) 1st and 2nd fellows                           September 1982
(b) 3rd fellow                                    September 1983
20. Study tour                                        December 1980



ANNEX 1
-6 9-                                 T-27
Page 3 of 3
INDONESIA: 'rIRD POPULATION PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF KEY PROJECT ACTIONS TO MEET THE
DISBURSEMENT SCIEDULF
D. Civil Works
Award
Number    Acquisition       of        Procurement Procurement
of          of        Construction      of         of
Facility                 Facilities      Sites        Contracts   Furniture   Equipment
NFPCB Provincial Population      8           9/15/80       6/30/81      12/31/81    12/31/81
Centers (11)               3           6/30/81      6/30/82      5/31/82      5131/82
NFPCB Provincial                  6          9/15/80       6/30/81         -            -
Warehouses (10)            4           6/30/81       6130/82        -            -
NFPCB District Offices(104)    40            9/15/80       6/30/81      12/31/81    12/31/81
40          6/30/81       6/30/82      12/31/82    12/31/82
27          6/30I82       3/31/83      6/30/83     6/30/83
MOH In-Patient Annexes (50)       8          9/15/80       6/30/81      9/30/81     9/30/8i
17          6/30/81       6/30/82      9/30182     9/30/81
25          6/30/82       3/31/83      9/30/83     9/30/81



-70-                                           ANNEX 1
Pap 1 If 
INDONESIA: THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
QUARTERLY IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE OF NON-CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES, 1980-1984
1980        1981         1982          1983        1984
Activity                            4    1  2  3  4   1  2 3  4   1  2  3  4   1  2  3
A. Training of:
1. Nurses and Midwives
a.  Establishment of Coordinating
Committee                                    X    X
b.  Procurement of Medical Equipment,
Teaching Aids and Vehicles                    X    X  X  X  X
c.  Re-training of 1,080 Nurses                        X  X  X  X   X  X X  X   X  X  X  X   X  X
d.  Re-orientation of 960 Teachers                X    X  X  X  X   K  XX X        X  X  X  X   X  X
e.  National Workshops/Seminars
(i)    For Nurses                            X    X          X   X        X   X         X   X
(ii)   For Teachers                                   X             X            X              X
2. Traditional Birth Attendants (TBAs)
a.  National Seminar                                       X                          X
b.  Provincial Level (121 Regency MCH
Midwives)                                     X           X            X             X
c.  Regency Level (2,371 MOH Midwives)                 X  X  X  X   K  X X       X K  X  X X  X  X
d.  Kecamatan Level (retraining 30,000
TBAs)                                              X  X  X                XKX        X K X    X X
3. Doctors, Other Health Center Staff, Local
Administrators snd Community Teachers
a.  Clinical Training of Doctors                       X  X  X  X   K  XX X        X
b.  Study Tours for Health Center Staff                               X        X      X             X
c.  Seminars for:
(i)    Health Center Staff                         X             X            X             X
(ii)   Administrators, Kabupaten
and Kecamatan Levels                       X              X            X             X
(iii)  Village Community Leaders                      X             X                           X
B.  MCH/FP Service Delivery
1. Health Center In-Patient Facilities
a.  Recruitment of Staff                                      X          X            X
2. Field Supervision
a.  Procurement of Motorcycles                    X           X          X
b. Distribution of Motorcycles to
Fieldworkers                                       X         X         X
C.  IEC Activities
1. Mobile Information Unit
a.  Procurement of Vehicles and AVA                        X X  X   X  X  X
b.  Operation of MIU                                             X   xxx x
2. Public Address System for Village
Acceptors Club
a.  Procurement                                              XX    X X
b.  Distribution                                                        X   X X  X
3.  Video Duplicator System and Cassettes
a.  Procurement                                                         X
b.  Operation                                                                  X  X
4. Provincial Media Production Center
a.  Procurement                                                 X
b.  Operation                                                         K
5. Video Monitor/Players
a.  Procurement                                                          X
b.  Operation                                                                 X
6.  Study Tour                                                       X
7. Film Production
a.  Pre-test                                                  X            X             X
b.  Production                                                       X        X              X
c.  Copy                                                             X     K       X     X X
8. Training of Video Technicians



- 71 -                                      AONe  I
Page 2 of 2
INDONESIA:  THIRD POPULATI(% .
QUARTERLY DHPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE OF NON-CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES, 1980-1984
1980         1981           1982            1983             1984
Activity                             4    1  2  3  4    1  2 3 4           1  2  3  4       1  2  3
D.  Population Education
1. In-School Program
a.  Training of Teachers
(i)  Primary School                        X  X X X X   X X X X    X X X X    XXX
(ii)  Junior Secondary School              X    X  X  X  X  X   X    X            X  X X   X      X  XX
(iii) Senior Secondary School              X    X  X  X   X     X XX   X        X X   X X         X  X  X
b.  Printing and Production of Text-
books                                      X    X  X  X  X          X X X                    -
c.  Printing and Production of
Teachers' Handbooks                        X    X  X  X  X    X  X X  X
d. Production of Kits                           X   X XXX                 X X X    X X X X    X XX
e.  Training of Supervisors                     X    X  X  X  X    X  X X  X         X  X  X  X       X  X  X
f.  Radio Program                              X    X  X  X  X    X  X X  X          X  X  X  X       X  X  X
2.  Out-of-School Program
a.  Training of Instructors                     X    X  X  X X       X X X       X    X  X  X          X  X  X
b.  Printing and Production                     X    X  X  X  X    X  X X  X
c.  Printing of Teachers' Guides               X    X  X  X  X    X  X X  X
d.  Preparation of Supplementary
Materials                                  X    X  X  X  X
e.  Production of Supplementary
Materials                                        X  X   X X
f.  Production of Kits                               X  X  X  X    X  X X  X         X  X  X  X
g.  Purchase of Slide Projectors                                         X
h.  Slides Purchase and Productions                  X  X  K  X    X X   X  X         X  X  X  X
i.  Intra-country Study Tour                         X  X  X   X    X X X  X         X  X  X  X        X X X
J.  Training of Supervisors                          X  X  X  X      X X XX          X  X  X X         X X   X
k. Radio Program                                            XX   X X X X    X X X X   X X X
3.  Teachers Education
a.  Special Course at IKIP Level
(51 - Sarjana)                             X  XX X X   X X X X    X X X X    X XX
b.  Preparation of Curriculum                   X    X  X  X  X
c.  Preparation of Textbook and
Teaching Package                           X    X  X  X  X
d.  Training of IKIP's Teacher -
Educators and Education Faculty
Mambers                                    X  X X X X   X XX X   X X X X   X X X
e.  Strengthening Libraries at 10
IKIPs                                            X  X  X  X    X  X X  X
f.  Developing Pasca Sarjana (Ed.S,
Course at IKIP Jakarta                           X X X X   X X XX    X XX X    X X X
g.  Developing course oontent and
training inckage                                 X  X  X  X
h.  Special Lilrary for IKIP Jakarta                 X  X  X  X    X  X X  X         X  X
i.  Fellowship                                       X  X  X  X    X  X X X          X  X
(i)   Study Tours for school and
out-of-school                                             X  X X  X       X  X  X  X
(ii)  Specialization in Pop. Edu.
IKIP Program                                     X  X    X  X
J.  Evaluation Activities in Provin-
cial and National Level                          X X XX    X X X X X   X X  X                     X XX
k.  Research Projects                                  X  X X X      X X XX          X  X  X X         X   X X
1.  Distribution of Textbooks                                        X  X X  X       X  X  X  X



- 79 -
INDUONSIA:  THIR0  POPULATION PROJECT
CIVIL WORKS INPIEHNEIATION, EXPENDITUBE AND DISBURSEHENT SCHEDULE, 1980-1984
1980                            1981                                      18S2                                       1983               _9b4
Sep  ...-  J.   Mar.. J n.. . S.p   . Dc  J..a.. r... J.nn.... S W  . D-ec  J.  _- Mar... Jun .... Se. .                                  e.  D a,     Mar.. Jn ... ... SE.       Dle
Land Acq.   IIl1111111
PROVINCIAL         Soil Inn.    ......a.a....uaa.a. aa..a.aa
POPU,.AfON  11   D-.In          ddddddddd
CENTEUS            ikg. Dtg-     dvevn,deddewdedwdwdvdvd
Tender.                     tentttttittitttS
Innate Coat nUSS.439.Doo
EUpndlture                                                              0.4       0.6         011        1. 2      1.2       1.2        0I 8       07       0.239
Db- -tur eIaen1                                                                                                    1. 3      1.2.        2 2       0 8      0 7        0 234
Prof  I..Fe     I-'l          pfpfpfpfpfpftfpfpfpfpfp fpfpfpfpfp fpfpfpfpfpfpfpfp fPfpfpfPfpfpfPfpfpf PfpfPfpfpfpfPfpfPfrf.fD ffrf,fpft fpfp fDfDfpffo fD
S59414,800     D0b.                                 0 05      0.05      0.05      0.05         0. 0      0.05      0.1       0.1         0.1       0.1      0. I       0 I          O 041
F_rniture       Proc.                                                              ffffffffffffffff
US1. 794.300   Dieb.                                                                                                         0.5         0.5       0.5      0.2953
E-uip-ent       Proc.                                                        ........ ......
USSI.085.600   Diab.                                                                                                                     0 5       0.5      o 0856
Land Acq.   Ill
PYOVINCIAL        Soil Inn.       ....
WAREHOUSES  10   Deeign         ddd
Wrk.D.vs .      odvdd
Tendera                      ttttt
Cunntc Coot US$903, 200
E,perditruD 0.1                                                         0.2       0.2         0.2        0.1       0.1       0 0032
-iaurecent                                                                                               0.3       0.4      0 1                    0.1032
Land Acq.   11111111111IIIl1101ilillIlII
DISTRICT           Soil Inv.     eaaaaa .a ......ae a         .....eaa a ....
OFFICES    107   Deaign         dddddd
tdkg. Oe.    Id.adan.doeodeeoOnada
Tender-                         ttttttrttttt                                  itnrttt                             ettntt
Cnott. Coat U5$5.848.000
Epndituce                                                               0.3       0.5         0.5        0,5       0.5       0.5         0.5       0.5      0.5        0.5         0.5        0.548
Diabturonnt                                                                                             0.3        0.5       0.5         0.5       0.5      0.5        0.5         0,5       1.5       0.548
Frof .PFeon     IFpI.        pfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfppfpfpf rpfpfpfptpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpEpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfPfpf
008S18,700      Disb.                                         0.05      0.1       0.1         0.05       0.05      C.05      0.05        0.05      0.05    0.00        0.05        0.1        0.0687
FPintin.r       Proi.                                                                  jffffffffffff                              ffffffffffff
uS$I,139.3UO    Hi.a.                                                                  i                          0.1        0.1         0.2       0.2      0.2        0.1         0.1        0.1       0.0393
Eqnip.nat       Proc.                                                             .e.....e.e.ee...                                ...........
USS1,114.900   DIeb.                                                                                               0.2       0.3                            0.1        0.2         0.3       0.d149
Land Alql   1111111111.119  1 1110111  .11
HC                 Soil lnn     aoeaaeeaaaeooaeaaaaaaaaoasae
IN-PATIENT   50  Deeigt         ddd
FACILITIES         wklgg.   .. 4dwqvdwdvdvdvdeodwdwdwdvdddvd
landera                     ttnneert t            ttetc                 tiuctutt                      vttt
Coootr.Ctmt US02.586.400
.xpanditore                                         0.05      0.1       0.2       0.2 [       0.2       O.2       0.2        0.2         0.2       0.2      0.3        0.3         0.2364
Di.b.rte.i--                                                                      0.15        0.2        0.2       0.0       0.2         0.2       0.2      0.2        0.2         0.3        0.3       0.2364
Prof .F...      I.pl.         pfpfpfpfp fpfpfpfpf pfpfpfpfpfp fpf pfpfpfpfpf pfpfpfpfp fpfpf pfpfpfpfpfpfpfpfpf pf pfpffpf pfpfpfp Epfpfpfpfpfpfpfp*fpfpfpfpfpfpEpfpfpfpkpfp
US1264,500      Diab.                                                   0.05      0.02        0.02      0.02       0.02     0.02         D.02      0.02    0.02        0.02i       0.02      0.0145
Prnitre         Pr                                               fffffffff                                     fffffffff                                   fffffffff
US$194,0O0      Diab.                                                                          0.03                                      D.07                                       0.094
Fqtip-t3t       Proc.                                         aeeeeoeo
00S5230,000     DfOa.                                                                                    0.1       0.1       0.03
SUIlSf  OF ANICIPIITBD DOSOUBIHRSMNS F00  CIV.L LfODBd                                                                             j
C-n.trucrLon  US16,776.6                            -         -         -         0.15         1.2       1.8       2.4       2.0         1.9       1.6032  1.4         0.934       0.8        1.8       0.7844
Ptof.Fee    US$ 2,025.0                            0.05      0.1       0.2       0.17        0.12      0.12      0.17      0.17         2.17      0.17    0.07        0.17        0.1610   0.0832
Pornittre    US0  3,127.6                          -         -         -         -  .        0.03      -          0.0       0.6         0.77      0.7      0.4943    0.1          0.194    0.1         0.0393
oqoipuone    US$ 2,430.5                           -         -         -         -           -         0.1        0.3       0.33        D.5       0.5      0.1856    0.2          0.3       0.0148
TOtAL            US$24,359.7                          0.05      0.1       0.2        0.321       1.35      2.02      2.97      3.1         3.34      2.9732  2.2499    1.4D           1.4558   1.9981   0.8237
8ep .....      Ja.. MHo .. Jon.            . S        ep .   D..  Jan...   . .....  Sap .... .  Sp ...D.c .  Jan.  Mar . Jo. n.  S.p .  Hc  Tao.J. M. ...........iJn. Sep ..D        ..   a 
1980                           1981                 l                     1982                                      1983                                      1984                      -



- 73 -                         ANNEX 2
INDONESIA
Q-L")CZ3D LUiIENT;S MID DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.   General Reports
Central Bureau of Statistics, "Population and Manpower Statistics," 1978.
Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific, "Asian Population
Programme News," Volume 6, No. 1, 1977.
Government of Indonesia and UNICEF, "Master Plan of Operations for a
Programme of Basic Services for Children in the Republic of
Indonesia, 1979-1984".
House Select Committee on Population, "Remarks of Haryono Suyono, Ph.D
Deputy Chairman III, National Family Planning Coordinating Board,
Jakarta, Indonesia", April 27, 1978.
National Family Planning Coordinating Board, "Ten Year Review of the
National Family Planning Program", 1980.
National Family Planning Coordinating Board, "The Integrated MCH Family
Planning Development Project in Mlojokerto, East Java, 1973-1979",
1979.
Planned Parenthood Federation of America, "International Family Planning
Perspectives", June 1979.
Population Reference Bureau, "Indonesia's Family Planning Story: Success
and Challenge," Population Bulletin, November 1977.
Presidential Decree, "Organization of the National Family Planning
Coordinating Board" 1978.
UNFPA, "Indonesia: Report of Mission on Needs Assessment for Population
Assistance", August 1979.
UNFPA, "Five Year Program 1980-1984".
WHO, "Collaborative Study on Perinatal Mortality and Morbidity," 1979.
WHO, "Strengthening of Maternal and Child Health Services, Indonesia,"
August 1979.
World Bank, "Appraisal Report of a Joint IDA-UNFPA Population Project
Indonesia," Report PP-8a, February 1972.
World Bank, "Employment and Income Distribution in Indonesia," Report
2378 - IND, February 1979.
World Bank, "Indonesia Appraisal of a Second Population Project", Report
1534b - IND, May 1977.



74                                 ANNEX 2
Page 2
INDONESIA
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE (Cont.)
World Bank, "Indonesia: Long-Run Development and Short-Run Adjustment",
February 20, 1980.
World Bank, "Regional Aspects of Family Planning and Fertility Behavior
in Indonesia," Report 2922 - IND, March 1980.
World Fertility Survey, "The Indonesia Fertility Survey, 1976: A
Summary of Findings", October 1978.
B.   Papers Related to the Project
Architect's Working Papers, "Indonesia III: Third Population Project:
Civil Works", March 1980.
Department of Health Indonesia, "Health Centre Reference Manual Volume II,"
April 1976.
Government of Indonesia, "Indonesia Project Proposal (Third Population
Project), iovember 1979.
Ministry of Health, "Health Centre Services Development", February 1980.



-  75   -                                                               C-1
INDONESIA: THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF NATIONAL FAMILY
PLANNING COORDINATING LCARD (NFPCP5
PRESIOENT OF INOONESIA
CHA1RMA. - - -                        _   CONSU LTATIVE TEAM FOR PROGRAM
VICE CHAIRMAN                                         EXECUTtON
EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                                   -
CENTER                                   _    _    _     _    _    _    _     _    _    _
IMAPLEMENTING UNIT
SECRETARiAT            ~~CENTRAL LEVEL
OEPUTY FOR SUPERtVISION AND              OEPUTY FOR ADMINISTRATION              DEPUTY FOR FAMILY           DEPUTY FOR POPULATION
I^ca FROL   n  ANO MANAGEMENT  _F 7   PLNN NG                        AFFAIRS
. F   1   _      SUReAUffPUNNING             _    W~~~~BREAU OF INFORMATION      WUREAUOP POPULATION 
BUREAU OP PLANNING   AND MOTIVATION             DUR AU TA 
BUREAU OPFPROGRAM EVALU-
INPECTORATE OF MNSPECTORATE  INSPECTOtATEA
MANPOWER AND    OP FINANCIAL   OF MATERIALS
PROGRAM          AFAIRSUREAU O SUPPLY                                                       BUREAU OP FIELD             BUREAU OF PROGRAM
AND LOGISTICS             . OPERATIONAL CONTRtOL                 COOHO INATION       _
PROVINCIAL
GOVERNOR
DtSTIICT WEAO/CITY MAYOR                                                    PRtOVINCIALNFPCt
|OISTRICTIKABUPATEN NFPCB OFFICE                                  TVINCtALLEVEL
L--------------------_
CT IbPLEbENTING UNIT
Worl 4Bk - 21490



INDONESIA: THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
SYSTEM OF TRAINING OF TRADITIONAL BIRTH ATTENDANTS
National Seminar on MCH                      Organizer:   Directorate General of Community Health, MOH
National Level                                       for                               Trainers:    Staff of the MCH Sub-directorate and staff
Doctors, Midwives responsible                                   of the National Center for Education and Training
for MCH and TBA Training Program                  Objectives:  To discuss--
(I)  Overall MCH policy
(2)  Role of TBAs
(3)  Training of TBAs
(curriculum, method of training, supervision,
referral, etc.)
Procedure:   To be held in Jakarta, once every two years.
Provincial Level                           Training of Kabupaten                       Organizer:   Provincial health office
Midwives*                             Trainers:    Provincial doctors
Provincial midwives
Objectives:  To provide knowledge about--
(1) Overall policy
(2) Role and function of TBAs
(3) How to organize training program for TBAs
(4) Technical support, supervision, follow-up, etc.
Procedure:   To be held at Provincial health offices once a year.
Each province to train 20 midwives on the average.
Kabupaten Level                          Training of Health Center                     Organizer:   Kabupaten health office
(District)                                     Midwives*                             Trainers:    Kabupaten doctor                                           0
Kabupaten midwives
Objectives:  Same as for training program for Kabupaten midwives
Procedure:   To be held at Kabupaten health offices once a year.
Each office to train 20 - 25 midwives on the average.
Kecamatan Level                              Training of TBAs                          Organizer:   Health center
(Subdistrict)                         Basic Training (20,000)                        Trainers:    Health center doctor
(5,000 per year)                                          Health center midwife
Retraining  (47,000)                          Objectives:  To impart knowledge about--
(about 12,000 per year)                                   (1)  Normal delivery
(2)  How to examine pregnant women
(3)  Care of high-risk pregnant women
(4)  Care of eye, mouth, nose, etc,
(5)  Family planning
(6)  Other health problems
Procedure:   To be held at 3,000 health centers over a period of
4 years. Each center to train 15 - 20 TrAs.
Village Level                                Services by TBAs
(67,000)
* Bank financing covers training of 121 Kabupaten and 2,371 Health Center Midwives.  The rest is covered by the Government.



C-3
- 77 -
INDONESIA: THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
THE STRUCTURE OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Minister of Health
I nspector                                                    Secretary General
Director General                 Director General                       Director General                Director General of
of Medical Care               of Community Health                      of Communicable               Drug and Food Control
Dim.s Control
ational Intitute of                              National Center for
Research & Developmen                            Education and Training
Head of
Provincial Health Office
Head of
District/Kabupaten Health Office
|            ~~~~Head of       
| Community Health Center (PUSKESMAS)
World Bank - 21489



r



i
r=n )
' -: f c / l o
= - m F > > Z 5 n O m D > s m 9 > c 2 >  o  _  2  \
G O zF v z X k t < < _ > , 2
 t : i: :Vt; Wv
_ <) X                        .' O              w
5 / L' g tYP> 0n (\XA
t } s tw<( * ; \ - Q
@t/'tt *;t   q   S   X   tt f                  o
/ ' S s X % q
_ A;i'%+<
W fWs r-
w (S X ,.XV -,,2e3,F ,X 1-Y G
, M 2 G W5eW   k                                 3: Xi1!
rS r t t >    <2   b it t                         x
Xs A           e        G       5l-fEZ           22
f          G             ;       -Isi         @9
> '$40 Q :1 ; ^ - ', 5
'W't         :,'tS'     t
a  (  >      gQI '    - g t                  _
ir - = ,.lX , z12 @ b
p o : --AX > I F ,; jj . O
O <0       , ,<   | X         r         , < m m t; jg
kn m D                t  3    X 8t 7        C Z = =  Z
- . .; S    5       ,.  .:w   . - \   . .  .  q}  ^  m
- 4  53  < >   }   /- -  -- (    3   - ,i  <<,    e
v- / ; A X-v { ' > Si z S
, 5,i     a   ,   -          ;;                         5i
7      X     PAPISA  NEW   iU NEA    /  c;           33 G



