Documentof              FLE  CO
The World Bank                               Pr
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2824-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
May 21, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit   =       Rupiah (Rp)
US$1             =      Rp 625
Rp 100                  US$0.16
Rp I million    =       US$1,600
ABBREVIATIONS
IEC        =  Information, Education and Communication
IPPA       =  Indonesia Planned Parenthoood Association
MCH/FP     = Maternal and Child Health/Family Planning
MIU        = Mobile Information Unit
MOH        = Ministry of Health
MPC        - Media Production Center
NFPCB      =  National Family Planning Coordinating Board
PNPK       =  National Population Education Project (Ministry of Education
and Culture)
PTC        =  Provincial Training Center
REPELITA   =  Five-Year Development Plan
STC        =  Subprovincial Training Center
TBA        -  Traditional Birth Attendant
TFR        =  Total Fertility Rate
UNESCO     =  United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
UNFPA      = United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF     -  United Nations Children's Fund
USAID      =  United States Agency for International Development
VCDC       =  Village Contraceptive Distribution Center
WHO        = World Health Organization
GLOSSARY
CAMAT      =  Executive Head of the Kecamatan or Subdistrict
INPRES     =  Presidential Instruction
KABUPATEN  =  District of a Province
KECAMATAN  = Administrative Subdistrict
INDONESIAN FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower:        Republic of Indonesia
Amount:          $35.0 million
Terms:           20 years, including five years of grace, with interest
at 8.25% p.a.
Pro_Ject
Description:  The project's objective is to help the Government of Indonesia
achieve its long-term goal of reducing the 1971 fertility rate
by 50% by 1990. The project would assist in expanding the
national family planning program, supporting current program
activities, and strengthening basic health care services. In
particular, the project would include: construction of popu-
lation centers, warehouses for storage of contraceptives, and
health center in-patient annexes; provision of vehicles,
audio-visual materials, and instructional materials for
population education activities. In addition, the project
makes provision for techncal assistance; fellowships; special
equipment; operating costs for training; and support for study
tours and training sessions.
Estimated                                                  Local  Foreign  Total
Costs: /1                                                ----- $ million -----
Civil works                               23.6      4.2    27.8
Furniture                                  2.6      0.5     3.1
Equipment                                  0.4      6.9     7.3
Vehicles                                   0.3      2.4     2.7
Technical assistance & fellowships         0.2      0.3     0.5
Training, workshops, seminars              6.4       -      6.4
Preparation/production of training
and IEC materials                        4.3      -       4.3
Maintenance/operation of MIUs              0.2       -      0.2
Base cost                            38.0    14.3    52.3
Physical contingencies                     2.7      0.7     3.4
Price contingencies                       13.7      3.2    16.9
Total Project Costs                  54.4    18.2    72.6
/1 The tax element in the project is insignificant.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Financing                                                   Local  Foreign  Total
Plan:                                                     ----- $ million   -
Bank                                       19.6    15.4    35.0
Government                                34.8      2.8    37.6
Total                                54.4    18.2    72.6
Estimated Dis-
bursements:   Bank FY:            1981      1982      1983     1984      1985
Annual            2.00      6.80    14.30       9.64      2.26
Cumulative        2.00      8.80    23.10    32.74    35.00
Staff Appraisal
Report:        No. 2912-IND, dated May 19, 1980
Population, Health and Nutrition Department



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $35.0 million to help
finance a Third Population Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including five years of grace, with interest at 8.25% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND, dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979. An updating
country economic memorandum, "Indonesia: Long-Run Development and Short-Run
Adjustment" (No. 2788-IND, dated February 20, 1980) was recently distributed
to the Executive Directors.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is an archipelago nation of more than
13,000 islands covering a land area in excess of two million sq km. With an
estimated population of 140 million (end-1979), it is the world's fifth most
populous nation. Over 82% of the population live in rural areas and although
agriculture only accounts for slightly over 30% of GDP, about 62% of total
employment is still found in the agricultural sector. GDP per capita is
estimated at about $370.
4.        Over the last 13 years, Indonesia's economic, social and institu-
tional development has surpassed that of most other heavily populated poor
countries. Although the new government in 1966 inherited a severely dislo-
cated and bankrupt economy, it rapidly brought hyperinflation under control,
established full convertability of the currency and regained the confidence of
western creditors. During the First Development Plan period, Repelita I
(1969/70 to 1973/74), a major rehabilitation of the neglected infrastructure
was initiated, the investment rate was doubled to 18% of GDP and an average
real GDP growth rate of over 9% p.a. was achieved. During Repelita II
(1974/75 to 1978/79), economic activity was fueled by a dramatic increase in
foreign exchange resources resulting from the world commodity boom, the
quadrupling of oil prices and expanded public and private foreign capital
inflows.  Net oil exports increased from $640 million in 1973 to $4 billion /2
in 1978, which enabled real Government expenditure to increase by 20% annually
and encouraged a 7% average annual GDP growth rate. Not all sectors have
shared in this growth. In particular, the performance of nonextractive
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the National Agri-
cultural Research Project, (No.P-2776-IND), circulated under cover of
R80-85, dated April 17, 1980, and approved by the Executive Directors on
May 6, 1980.
/2 Includes Liquified Natural Gas ($225 million).



- 2 -
exports, with some exceptions such as coffee and palm oil, has been disappoin-
ting; rubber exports, for example, have stagnated since 1971, and manufactured
exports are only now giving any indication of sustained growth. In addition,
there has been little evidence, despite increased foreign exchange resources,
that the post-oil future of the economy has been assured through a broad-based
expansion of the industrial sector.
Social Developments
5.        While there is general agreement that overall growth in the economy
- an annual rate of almost 8% over ten years /1 - has been impressive, views
diverge on the degree to which the poor have shared in this increased income.
The National Household Surveys for 1970 and 1976 indicate that while overall
income disparities almost certainly widened between those two dates, there was
nevertheless a considerable improvement in the consumption of all income
groups, with real consumption expenditure of the bottom 40% of the population
probably increasing at between 3.5% and 5.5% annually. Growth in per capita
income was generally higher in Java than in the Other Islands and higher in
urban than in rural areas.
6.        Employment growth has been rapid in the 1970s (an average of 4.7%
p.a. between 1971 and 1976, compared with a total population growth of 2%).
However, it is likely that there has been a slight increase in the level of
open unemployment due to a greater rate of growth of working age population
than of total population and to increased participation rates (50% in
September 1971, 55% in October 1976). Most (54%) of the increased employment
during this period was absorbed in nonagricultural activities, resulting in a
decline in the share of agricultural employment from 66% to 62%. Within the
nonagricultural sector, employment increases largely resulted in proliferating
small-scale enterprises in the manufacturing and service sectors, where
productivity is generally extremely low.
7.        Government-sponsored programs deserve at least part of the credit
for many of the major advances of the last decade. In particular, the BIMAS
and INMAS rice intensification schemes and the Government public works
(INPRES) programs have demonstrated the Government's capacity to marshal
resources in pursuit of its social goals. Between 1971/72 and 1976/77 real
expenditures increased at an annual average rate of 37% on health and family
planning, 45% on education, and 31% on housing and water supply, resulting in
the rapid development of social infrastructure. For example, Indonesia's
health centers, which totalled 1,058 in 1969, were increased to 4,029 by
1977; between 1973 and 1978, 31,000 primary schools were constructed and
primary school enrollment was expected to reach 85% in 1979, up from 60% in
1974.
8.        Despite these advances, however, the magnitude of the poverty
problem, the lack of food security, and the inadequacy of basic public
services remain overwhelming. In 1976, an estimated 50 million people, over
/1 Gross Domestic Income grew even faster; at about 9.5% p.a., due to
improvements in terms of trade.



- 3 -
one-third of Indonesia's total population, spent less than $90 a year (at 1976
prices and exchange rate) and a large proportion of the labor force was
seriously underemployed in both rural and urban areas. MIoreover, the conti-
nued prevalence of numerous debilitating diseases, which often stem directly
from nutritional deficiencies and unsanitary living conditions, results in
extremely low life expectancy at birth and a very high mortality rate. Life
expectancy at birth in Indonesia is only 48 years (most recent estimate)
compared with 60 years in the Philippines and 67 years in Malaysia. For the
same countries, infant mortality rates are respectively 126, 65 and 35 per
thousand. Every year in Indonesia approximately 600,000 infants die before
attaining the age of one year. These statistics reflect both low incomes and
the underlying inadequacy of basic public services. Over 100 million
Indonesians remain without access to safe water or sanitary excreta disposal;
there are only 6 physicians and 6 nurses per 100,000 of the population; and
almost 40% of the adult population are illiterate.
Development Strategy in the Nonoil Economy
9.        The rehabilitation of infrastructure which has made possible the
impressive growth rate over the last decade and wbich has underpinned past
development policy must now give way to a new strategy as the task of rehabi-
litation is now essentially completed. The Government has recognized this in
preparing its Third Development Plan, Repelita III (1979/80 to 1983/84).
Three primary goals have been specified: a more equitable distribution of the
benefits of growth, a high growth rate, and national stability. High priority
must now be given to the industrial sector since neither agriculture nor
services can be expected to absorb the large projected increases in the labor
force (1.4 million p.a. up to the year 2000) and simultaneously ensure rising
real wage rates.
10.       The prospects for an outward-looking labor-intensive industrial
development have been improved by some of the policy actions taken in recent
months. The most dramatic of these was the devaluation of the rupiah from
Rp 415 to Rp 625 per US dollar on November 15, 1978. Its purpose was to
reverse some of the adverse relative price changes in the economy that had
occurred earlier in the decade and thus encourage a shift of resources away
from the nontraded goods sector towards labor-intensive import substitution
and export industries. In support of the aims of Repelita III and the devalu-
ation, the Government has also simplified the investment licensing process and
exporting procedures and introduced a system of export certificates - tax
rebates - to encourage exporters. A new corporation tax law was promulgated
in March 1979 providing greater incentives to entrepreneurs, particularly
those in smaller-scale ventures and those using the services of a public
accountant. On the monetary side a start has been made in making the commer-
cial banking system more responsive to the needs of small-scale enterprises.
11.       A detailed industrial development strategy has not yet been articu-
lated, although the Repelita III document acknowledges that private invest-
ment will be relied upon as the primary means of industrial job creation.



- 4 -
Despite the improvements outlined above, it is not yet clear that private
entrepreneurs will be able or willing to invest sufficiently in those sectors
most conducive to job creation and income growth. In particular there are two
issues that require urgent attention. First, although some improvements have
been made, many entrepreneurs still complain about cumbersome administrative
procedures and controls associated with the highly centralized government
bureaucracy. Second, the high level of effective protection, which has
increased over the last year, may encourage the misallocation of scarce
capital and managerial resources. Indonesia's potential for manufactured
exports is considerable but it is unlikely that these exports will ever
provide the stimulus to growth that has been enjoyed by other smaller East
Asian countries. In the medium term it is more likely that Indonesia's
"tengine of growth" will be its own large domestic market. However, it is
important that barriers to trade be reduced in order to provide appropriate
market signals and to encourage those sectors in which a genuine comparative
advantage exists. The formal tariff structure is probably less significant
than the high administrative costs and delays associated with importing. The
important improvements made in exporting procedures over the last year have
demonstrated that rapid changes can be made in this area. Similar advances on
the import side would improve resource allocation by reducing the prolifera-
tion of domestic industries that have little prospect of ever attaining
international competitiveness. In many countries devaluation has been
accompanied by a rationalization of the tariff structure. Although this has
not yet occurred in Indonesia, the recent increases in oil revenues have, by
substantially increasing foreign exchange reserves, provided an additional
opportunity.
Short-Run Stability and Long-Run Development
12.       Medium-term prospects for the balance of payments and the Government
budget have improved fundamentally in recent months. Three factors - the
devaluation, an improvement in the nonoil terms of trade, and the oil price
rise - have been responsible. The effect of the devaluation on the external
accounts is still not clear although there is some evidence of significant
supply-side response in some sectors. The improvement in the balance of
payments that followed immediately after November 1978 was due less to the
devaluation than to favorable developments in the world prices of primary
commodities./l As a result, Indonesia achieved an external surplus of over
$700 million in 1978/79. Most important, however, has been the increase in
the export price of crude oil to $32 a barrel in January 1980. This is
expected to generate additional oil and LNG export earnings of $3.1 billion in
1979/80. Budget revenues have also benefitted from these developments. Since
over half of the Government's revenues were denominated in foreign exchange,
an immediate effect of the devaluation was to dramatically increase budgetary
revenues in terms of rupiah. As a result of the oil price increases, budget
revenues from oil and LNG are predicted to rise from $3.7 billion in 1978/79
to $8.9 billion in 1979/80.
/1 The nonoil terms of trade improved by 42% between October 1978 and July
1979.



13.       These favorable developments, while clearly presenting a valuable
opportunity to undertake development programs and stimulate private industrial
enterprise, may also present serious problems of short-run price and monetary
stability. This potential conflict could be seen, for example, in the
measures taken by the Government to ameliorate the inflationary effects of the
devaluation, which, while successful in keeping prices under control, some-
times tended to counteract the desired effects of the devaluation. Notable
here was the tight control exerted over private sector credit creation which
may have limited investment in those export sectors that the devaluation was
designed to encourage. In addition, the increased foreign exchange revenue
presents potentially difficult problems of monetary management. The manner in
which Indonesia increases its capacity to absorb imports effectively will be a
primary determinant of Indonesia's future growth prospects.
Domestic Resource Mobilization and External Capital Flows
14.       In the immediate future, the availability of foreign exchange will
not be a constraint on development due to both the increase in export revenues
and the consequent improvement in creditworthiness. (In 1979 Indonesia's
debt-service ratio has fallen from 18% to 16%.)Il In the medium and long run,
however, the situation is less clear, due to uncertainty about how quickly
Indonesia will be able to absorb its sudden increase in wealth, and because
projections of future export revenues remain highly speculative. It is there-
fore important that increased efforts be made to mobilize domestic financial
resources. The Government's concern with this issue is demonstrated by its
stated intention of eliminating budget subsidies on consumer goods. To this
end, domestic prices of all oil products were increased by an average of about
40% in April and May 1979, but the budget savings have since been nullified by
increases in international prices. On May 1, 1980, the Government therefore
raised domestic oil prices by a further 50% and thus partially compensated for
increases in international prices of oil. There is considerable scope for
improving the nonoil tax base, which accounts for less than 45% of total
revenues. For example, taxes on personal and business incomes amount to only
3% of GNP, and taxes on consumption, 2.5% of GNP. Expanding the tax base,
eliminating loopholes, and improving administration, are the obvious means of
securing a larger and more equitable tax burden. The mobilization of private
sector financial resource is hindered at present by the absence of attractive
long-term financial instruments, but the Government's encouragement of the
fledgling Jakarta Stock Exchange will hopefully result in an important source
of domestic funds in the medium term.
15.       The Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia (IGGI) remains the princi-
pal source of external capital, including Official Development Assistance
(ODA) to the country. The Bank's 1979 basic economic report on Indonesia
recommended that total ODA reach at least $1.93 billion in 1979, of which
/1 Ratio of debt service payments to commodity export earnings, with oil
and gas on a net basis.



- 6 -
at least 70% should be on concessional and semi-concessional terms.  This
recommendation was achieved.  The Bank's recent economic memorandum on
Indonesia (dated February 20, 1980) recommended a level of assistance of
$2.1 billion for 1980, which would represent no increase in real terms over
the recommended and actual amount of ODA for 1979.  At the meeting of the
IGGI in M4ay 1980, the indication of probable commitments in 1980 made by
bilateral and multilateral IGGI members amounted to almost this level.
16.        In the past selective local cost financing of projects has been
recommended since it was estimated that financing only the foreign exchange
cost of projects would not suffice to meet Indonesia's long-term capital
requirements. While temporarily Indonesia's foreign exchange position has
improved, projects for which loans are made now will disburse over a number
of years when Indonesia's external resource position is expected to be less
favorable. Selective local cost financing, particularly for projects with
a low foreign exchange component, would therefore still be justified.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
17.       As of March 31, 1980, Indonesia had received 47 IDA credits
totalling $901.8 million, and 46 Bank loans amounting to $2,691.0 million.
IFC investments totalled $62.2 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1977 was
about 8%, and the share of debt service about 1.8%. By the end of 1978, these
ratios are estimated to have increased to around 8.3% and 3%, respectively.
Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC investments as
of Miarch 31, 1980, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.       During Repelita I, and in line with the objectives of this First
Plan, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was directed toward the reha-
bilitation of deteriorated infrastructure and production facilities; meeting
the critical shortage of skilled manpower; and technical assistance needed for
pre-investment studies and project execution. As the focus of the Govern-
ment's policy shifted during Repelita II towards expansion of productive capa-
city in the agriculture, transportation and power sectors, as well as improve-
ment in the quality and delivery of basic public services, the thrust of our
lending changed to focus on these objectives. Given the critical importance
of agriculture (including transmigration) for employment, food security and
exports, over one-third of Bank Group-supported projects have been in this
sector. In addition, loans and credits have been extended to virtually all
other sectors of the economy, including fertilizer production and distribu-
tion, transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the National Agri-
cultural Research Project, (No. P-2776-IND), circulated under cover of
R80-85, dated April 17, 1980 and approved by the Executive Directors on
hlay 6, 1980.



- 7 -
development, nutrition, industrial development financing (including small
industry development), power, telecommunications, population and technical
assistance.
19.       Indonesia is currently in the process of implementin'q its Third
Five-Year Plan, Repelita III. As noted in Part I above, this document, while
stressing the need for continued high growth and stability, departs from
previous Plans by placing special emphasis on income distribution and poverty
alleviation. This focus, which is fully in line with the conclusions of the
Basic Economic Report, in turn requires greater attention to employment
generation and improvements in basic public services. While the Government's
agricultural programs are expected to generate significant employment oppor-
tunities, the long-term solution to Indonesia's employment problem is prima-
rily dependent on the articulation and implementation of a coherent labor-
intensive industrialization strategy. To support this effort the Bank Group
plans to expand significantly its hitherto modest involvement in this sector.
As part of this initiative, an operation designed to support several indus-
trial DFCs through an umbrella institution (most probably Bank Indonesia) is
at an advanced stage of preparation, and projects to support export processing
zones, wood processing and to further expand Bank assistance to small-scale
enterprise are at various stages of identification and preparation. A
comprehensive program of economic work in the industrial sector is being
initiated to provide the necessary understandings and backup for this expanded
operation.
20.       Outside industry, no major shifts in the balance of Bank Group
lending are expected. Given the importance of rice production, irrigation
will continue to absorb a substantial portion of Bank Group agricultural
lending; however, the Bank Group also plans to take further initiatives to
promote secondary food crops. For example, the recently approved Second
Agriculture Extension and the proposed Second Seeds projects will give greater
emphasis to these crops. Continued support for the provision of basic
services (population, education, health, nutrition, urban development and
water supply) as well as the traditional sectors (power and transport) is also
anticipated. Since it is clear that the achievement of the Government's
employment and equity objectives will become increasingly dependent on the
development of appropriate sectoral policy packages and strategies,
institutions, and staff development, it is expected that the focus of the
above operations will gradually broaden to a subsector and sector approach.
The proposed sectoral approach is designed to enable Bank Group assistance to
be responsive to these demands, and to continue institution-building efforts
in a broader context than has been done hitherto.
21.       Although Indonesia's project implementation performance is generally
in line with the overall average for the Bank, both the Bank Group and the
Government have become increasingly concerned about the level of disburse-
ments, which has shown a declining trend in the past three years. While
some of this decline is accounted for by a shift in several sectors towards
"newer" type poverty-oriented projects, many of the problems appear to be
related to the Government's cumbersome budgetary, procurement and payment



- 8 -
procedures, including issuance of tender documents and opening of letters of
credit. These problems are further compounded by the severe shortages of
both managerial and technical manpower. A number of steps have been taken
by the Government and the Bank to address these issues. Several special
Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make
recommendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The
Government and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint review
procedures to identify general and project-specific problems and work out
corrective measures.  The first of these reviews was held in early March 1979
and a second, more comprehensive one, in June. In addition, a procurement
seminar (planned to be the first of a series) was held in Jakarta in
September 1979.  As a consequence of these joint initiatives, over the past
few months the Government announced several measures to streamline the more
complex budgetary and financial procedures affecting project implementation.
Finally, to reduce initial project implementation difficulties, many opera-
tions are now being presented for Board approval at a later stage in the
project cycle. It is still too early to assess the effect of these steps on
project implementation, but improvements are expected.
22.       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through IDA.
Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity and oil
price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent lending has
been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending being justified
primarily on poverty grounds - per capita GNP ($360 in 1978) is well below the
IDA cutoff of $625. Given Indonesia's much improved balance of payment posi-
tion, no further IDA lending is anticipated beyond the end of the current
fiscal year. In the past, due to domestic resource constraints, the Bank
has financed local costs, particularly in high priority projects in the
rural sector. However, because of the increased availability of finance
following the recent oil price increases, financing of local costs will be
progressively reduced and limited to occasions where it will make a
significant contribution to the project.
23.       The proposed project, which is consistent with the strategy dis-
cussed above, constitutes the ninth lending operation presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year, and would bring total lending to date in
FY80 to $501 million. Projects for power, education, smallholder coconut
development, seeds, and village development are expected to be ready for
presentation in the next several months.
PART III - THE POPULATION SECTOR
Current Demographic Situation
24.       The population of Indonesia at the end of 1979 was estimated to be
140 million, making it the fifth most populous country in the world. While
Indonesia as a whole is not a densely populated country, its population is



- 9 -
very unevenly distributed across the different islands. Data from the 1976
Intercensal Survey show that, within the islands outside Java and Bali, popu-
lation density by Province ranges from a low of 2 persons/sq km in West Irian
to a high of 119/sq km in West Nusatenggara, with other selected figures of
37/sq km in South Sumatra, 15/sq kn in Central Sulawesi, 25/sq km in Jambi,
and 103/sq km in Lampung.  In Bali, average density is around 412 persons/sq
km, and on Java it is over 600/sq km. Thus Java, which accounts for only
about 7% of total land area but some 63% of the population, is one of the most
densely populated regions in the world, comparable to Bangladesh. On the
brighter side, the average annual rate of growth of population of 2% between
1971 and 1976 was substantially lower than the rate of 2.5-2.6% which had
been predicted. In Java and Bali, the rate was much lower (1.7%) than in
the Other Islands (2.6%).  The recent decline in fertility in Indonesia has
apparently been largely confined to Java and Bali. This decline is
noteworthy for two reasons: first, it took place at a relatively low level
of socio-eonomic development, and second, it dates from the introduction of
the national family planning program.
25.       Although mortality has declined from about 23 per 1,000 in the 1960s
to about 16 per 1,000 in the 1970s, infant mortality remains high, ranging
from 126 per 1,000 live births for females in Java to 176 per 1,000 live
births for males in some of the Other Islands. Diarrheal diseases account
for some 60% of the deaths of children under the age of five. Acute respira-
tory infections, neonatal tetanus (often caused by traditional delivery
practices), diphtheria, whooping cough, measles, and protein-calorie malnutri-
tion are also important causes of death in young children. A reduction in
infant mortality is an essential prerequisite for reducing the rate of growth
of population by enabling more children to survive to maturity, which tends to
motivate couples to adopt family planning. 1Maternal health also leaves much
room for improvement; average maternal mortality is probably much in excess
of the 3 per 1,000 births (1976) experienced in hospitals.
Future Demographic Trends
26.        In Indonesia, there is a built-in potential for further rapid growth
of population due to the universality and early age of marriage, the young age
structure of the population and the likelihood that improvements in health
services will bring about further appreciable reductions in mortality.
Assuming that fertility declines so as to reduce the net reproduction rate to
one by 2020, Indonesia's population will increase from 140 million in 1979 to
207 million by the year 2000. The Government has now adopted a long-term goal
of reducing the 1971 fertility rate by 50% by 1990. This in turn will
require raising the numbers of current users of contraception and improving
continuation rates, both in Java/Bali as well as in the Other Islands.



- 10 -
27.       Socioeconomic progress alone cannot be relied upon to reduce
fertility significantly, and the contribution of the national family planning
program will therefore be critical. Although the national program was only
introduced in the six provinces of Java and Bali in 1970, preliminary
estimates indicate that fertility in those islands declined by 21% between
1971 and 1979. It is essential that a similar reduction in fertility also be
achieved in the Other Islands.
Family Planning Program and Services
Background
28.       In the early years of independence under President Sukarno, Indo-
nesia followed a pronatalist policy, and transmigration to the relatively
sparselv populated Other Islands was advocated to solve the problem of over-
crowding on Java/Bali. Family planning was regarded as unnecessary except to
space births in the interest of the health of the mothers. Because it was
thought that, in the long run, fertility would decline with economic progress,
the Government took no direct action to reduce it.
29.       After the change of government in March 1966, the pronatalist policy
was discarded in favor of explicit support for family planning. In 1968, the
Government adopted a national family planning (FP) program, and in 1970 the
National. Family Planning Coordinating Board (NFPCB) was established to
coordinate its execution.
Organization
30.       The Chairman of the NFPCB reports directly to the President.  In
addition to the NFPCB, the program is executed by a number of Ministries, the
most important of which is the Ministry of Health (MOH), as well as the armed
forces, various voluntary organizations, and universities, which conduct
research. The national organization is duplicated at the provincial and
district (kabupaten) levels, where the Governors are responsible to the
President for development programs within their respective provinces. Much of
the success of the Indonesian family planning program is due to the high
degree of decentralization of the formulation and execution of the program.
After the NFPCB has formulated a national policy, the provincial NFPCBs
prepare programs taking account of local conditions. After approval by the
Governor, the provincial program is submitted to the central NFPCB for
approval and funding, and the implementation of the various elements of the
program then devolves on the agencies which proposed them.
Services
31.       The services offered by the family planning program comprise inform-
ation, education and communication (IEC), population education, and maternal
and child health care and family planning (MCH/FP). These services are
supported by training and retraining of relevant personnel, and an effective
reporting and evaluation system.



- 11 -
32.       IEC services are directed and supervised at the national level by
the Information and Motivation Bureau of the NFPCB, although the Indonesia
Planned Parenthood Association and the Ministries of Information and Religion
also participate. Mass media (radio, television and the press), mobile
information units and fieldworkers are employed to convey family planning
information to the public. Mass media are primarily used to create a climate
favorable to family planning; field activities, including meetings and home
visits, then reinforce the message. Carefully designed and targeted audio-
visual aids (AVA) are of great importance in this respect; however, these
remain in short supply and many meetings have to do without them. The 115
mobile information units (vans with audio-visual equipment) provided under the
joint IDA/UNFPA project have been used in Java and Bali with great success.
Each van visited about 144 villages a year and attracted roughly 288,000
people, so that 33 million people in Java and Bali were reached over the
six-year period (1974-79). Recently, however, some momentum has been lost
because of the shortage of up-to-date materials, and the deterioration with
age of a number of the units.
33.       In order to improve current IEC services the Government, with UNFPA
support, is presently undertaking a number of studies to evaluate ongoing
activities and assess future needs in the areas of training, programming,
and media production.
34.       Population education is being introduced into both the formal and
nonformal education sectors as well as teacher training institutions. The
Ministry of Education and Culture has set up a unit for this purpose, and a
small unit in the NFPCB is coordinating and monitoring the population
education activities of the various ministries and agencies.
35.       MCH/FP services are provided in rural areas as part of general
health services in about 4,000 health centers. Each center serves about
40,000 persons in Java/Bali, and 15,000-25,000 in the Other Islands. A full
complement of staff for a health center consists of one physician, one nurse,
one midwife, three auxiliary nurse/midwives, one sanitarian, one dental nurse
(shared by three health centers), and one clerk. Because of a shortage of
trained workers, many centers have not attained this level of staffing and are
therefore unable to provide the full range of services. The static clinics
are supplemented by about 2,000 mobile service units (operated by the I5inistry
of Health and the Armed Forces) which deliver family planning services in
remote areas. Each unit is staffed by a doctor, a midwife and a nurse.
36.       In addition to these clinics, the NFPCB has its own corps of some
7,000 family planning fieldworkers in Java and Bali who visit homes, inform
people about family planning, encourage them to practice contraception, and
distribute contraceptives. They are usually local people working in their own
neighborhoods and are thus sensitive to the needs of the people they serve.
37.       Finding that it was nearing the limits of the clinic-based approach,
the NFPCB decided to transfer the primary responsibility for motivating,



- 12 -
recruiting and maintaining family planning acceptors from Central Government
agencies to local community organizations, who in turn enlisted workers to
promote family planning and distribute contraceptives. In Bali, the tradi-
tional and unique "banjar" (hamlet) administrative system, a monthly meeting
of all family heads to discuss various matters, is now responsible for
organizing and promoting family planning activities and distributing contra-
ceptives. In Java, where village communities are more loosely bound, the
NFPCB has established village contraceptive distribution centers (VCDCs)
staffed by villagers (usually satisfied acceptors) and assisted by field-
workers from the provincial NFPCB. Contraceptives are distributed through
individual contacts or collective meetings, which provide opportunities for
follow-up and approaches to non-acceptors; there are currently some 34,700
VCDCs in operation. In the Other Islands, where there are no fieldworkers,
the NFPCB has used the Camat /1 to train hamlet officials to manage the
program.
Training
38.       The NFPCB's Center for Education and Training is responsible for
training at the national level and for the coordination and supervision of
training provided by the Provincial Training Centers (PTCs) and Subprovincial
Training Centers (STCs). The PTCs train provincial family planning staff,
government officials and community leaders; the STCs train other fieldworkers,
and subdistrict and village officials and community leaders.
39.       The majority of doctors graduating from medical schools in Indonesia
are assigned (for at least 3 years' service) directly to health centers, most
of which lack adequate inpatient facilities; accordingly, there is limited
scope for practical application of clinical training. The Government is
planning to organize six-month courses at provincial teaching hospitals to
enable these doctors to gain needed practical experience, specifically in
minor surgery, pediatrics, obstetrics and gynecology, and internal medicine.
In addition, the Government plans to undertake a program of upgrading health
centers by providing them with adequate in-patient facilities. At present,
there are several different categories of paramedical personnel. The MOH
proposes to replace these categories and broaden the services by training
primary health nurses who will have responsibilities well beyond those of the
conventional nurse. The primary health nurse will be expected to provide
basic nursing services both in the villages and at the health centers. In the
villages, traditonal birth attendants (TBAs) deliver babies at home. About
half of all registered TBAs have undergone training in simple hygenic birth
practices, and some have also been trained to provide information on family
planning, nutrition and health, and to refer patients requiring professional
attention to health centers. The Government plans additional TBA training, as
well as refresher courses for TBA trainers.
/1 A Camat is the head of a subdistrict (kecamatan). He is an official of
the Ministry of Internal Affairs.



- 13 -
Reporting and Evaluation
40.       The Indonesian family planning program reporting system is one of
the best in the world. Each clinic is required to submit monthly service
statistics of new acceptors, contraceptives supplied, revisits, and contracep-
tive use to the NFPCB in Jakarta. In addition, the NFPCB conducts knowledge,
attitude and practice surveys in selected areas and systematically uses the
findings to modify policy and service methods. The NFPCB also makes studies
of contraceptive continuation rates and contraceptive prevalence.  The
reporting and evaluation system therefore provides vital information to policy
makers and gives valuable guidance to local program administrators.
Program Accomplishments
41.       From its inception in 1970 to the end of 1979, the program had
recruited nearly 15 million new acceptors. In each year since 1972-73, the
program has achieved or exceeded its targets. However, the overall achieve-
ments mask wide regional variations. In 1979, an estimated 37% of married
women of reproductive age (15-44) in Java and Bali were currently practicing
contraception; for Indonesia as a whole the figure was about 27%. While the
program has thus achieved considerable success in Java and Bali, it is not
clear whether the experience of Java-Bali can be replicated in the Other
Islands where the population in some areas is growing by 3% or more
annually, and the very young age structure creates a dangerous momentum for
even faster growth. It is therefore important that the program succeed in
the Other Islands, where its prospects depend on how rapidly adequate
services can be provided. Until quite recently, the clinic coverage was far
from adequate. The ratio of 8,080 women per clinic in 1976 was higher than
the 1:7,000 ratio in densely settled Java-Bali even during the early years
of the program. However, the Government is increasing the number of health
centers, mobile units, and other service outlets to meet local needs. In
order to hold down costs, the fieldworkers, who played an essential part in
the program in Java-Bali by acting as recruiters and motivators, have not
been employed in the Other Islands, and community leaders and village
officials have been made responsible for recruitment and distribution. This
system, which places the main burden on busy local government officials who
have other duties to perform, is under constant review.
42.       The outstanding success of Indonesia's family planning program is
attributable to the total commitment of the country's leadership to its
success; the decentralization of program management and monitoring; and
community participation and support. From the President down to the village
level, political leaders have consistently demonstrated their commitment to
the objective of reducing the rate of population growth. The decentralization
of the NFPCB has helped to enlist the political power and enthusiasm of local
leaders and officials in support of the family planning effort. Over the
years, under the guidance of the NFPCB, the Indonesian family planning program
has become a unique blend of Government initiative and community participa-
tion, and it has been successfully absorbed into the fabric of local political
and social institutions.



- 14 -
Bank Group Lending for Family Planning
43.       In FY72, the Bank Group extended an IDA credit of $13.2 million
(combined with a UNFPA grant of an equal amount) for a First Population Pro-
ject (Cr. 300-IND), and in FY77 a loan of $24.5 million was made to help
finance a Second Population Project (Ln. 1472-IND).
44.       The First Project was confined to the islands of Java and Bali,
and its components included the construction and equipping of paramedical
training schools, maternal and child health/family planning centers,
provincial and subprovincial training centers, and provincial NFPCB
population centers; salary support for nonmedical field workers; the
provision of mobile information units and transport for MCH/FP staff
workers; a population education program; the extension of the hospital
postpartum program; research and evaluation; and technical assistance and
fellowships for program management and project implementation. The project
has had a significant impact; the new provincial population centers have
enabled NFPCB to supervise the program more effectively and facilitated
training of the large numbers of MCH/FP personnel. Both program management
and performance have improved. The MCH/FP pilot project in Mojokerto (East
Java) has demonstrated the advantages of integrating MCH with family planning
services. A strong IEC program has been established and population education
introduced into school curricula. The NFPCB now has a well-established system
of collecting, analysing and publishing service statistics, and has increased
not only its own research and evaluation capability but also that of other
local demographic institutions. As of March 1980, some $22.5 million, (about
85% of the total IDA/UNFPA funds) had been disbursed. The project is expected
to be completed by December 1980.
45.       The Second Project focussed on the ten provinces of Other Islands
T,/1 as well as parts of Java/Bali. Specific components included transport
for MCH/FP staff; the strengthening of IEC activities; a pilot community
incentive scheme; and a study to determine the feasibility of providing raw
materials for local production of oral contraceptives using botanical
materials obtained from Indonesian plants.
46.       Although it is too early to assess the impact of the project,
physical progress has been good. The construction of ten PTCs and NFPCB
provincial offices has been completed, and the National Family Planning
Training Center is under construction in Jakarta; population education is
being extended and textbooks have been printed and teaching kits distributed;
30,000 teachers have undergone training in population education; equipment is
being procured for the contraceptive raw materials study and the collection of
LI Aceh, North Sumatra, West Sumatra, South Sumatra, Lampung, West
Kalimantan, South Kalimantan, North Sulawesi, South Sulawesi and West
Nusatenggara.



- 15 -
promising samples of local raw materials has begun; and delivery of all
vehicles is expected to be completed within the next two months.
47.       The project has made much greater progress than is suggested by
the current level of disbursements. Although all of the construction work is
committed and 90% is already completed, only about one-half u_ the amount
allocated for construction has been disbursed. This is due in part to delays
in payments to contractors, and partly to the customary withholding of due
amounts pending completion of actual works. This matter has been discussed
with the Government who has agreed to expedite both payments and reimbursement
applications. In addition, vehicle procurement has taken much longer than
originally anticipated, with resultant delays in applications for reimburse-
ment. The contraceptive raw materials study only started in September 1979
(one year later than originally forecast), and the population education com-
ponent was deferred for 12 months pending the introduction of new curricula.
Procurment of equipment for these activities is currently in progress. No
disbursements have been made against the pilot community incentive scheme, on
which protracted discussions between the Government and the Bank are being
held regarding details of study design. Despite these delays, it is expected
that the project can be completed by October 1982, as originally planned.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
48.       Appraised in November 1979 (with a follow-up post-appraisal mission
in February 1980), the proposed project was negotiated in Washington from
April 28 to May 2, 1980; the Government delegation was led by Dr. Peter P.
Sumbung (Deputy for Administration and Management of the NFPCB). The Staff
Appraisal Report, No. 2912-IND, dated May 19, 1980, is being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately; a supplementary data sheet is contained in
Annex III.
Project Obiectives
49.       The proposed project has been designed to help the Government of
Indonesia achieve its family planning program targets for the Third
Five-Year Plan. It will support the long-term goal of reducing the 1971
fertility rate by 50% by 1990 through the expansion of family planning
infrastructure in the Other Islands; additional support for current program
activities, including an expansion of activities initiated under the first
two projects; and strengthening basic maternal and child health care
services.
Project Components
50.       Expansion of Infrastructure:  As noted above (para. 42), decentra-
lized administration and management have been one of the main strengths of the
Indonesian family planning program. The First and Second projects helped in
this respect by providing office and training accommodation for the NFPCB in



- 16 -
Jakarta and in the 6 provinces of Java and Bali and the 10 provinces of Other
Islands I./I The proposed project will provide for the construction, furnish-
ing and equipping of additional accommodations, as follows:
(a) Other Islands I: Warehouses for storing contraceptives and IEC
materials in each of the 10 provinces; and population and family
planning multipurpose centers in all 107 districts in the 10
provinces.
(b) Other Islands II /2: Provincial population centers in each of the
11 provinces. Each center will be located in the provincial
capital and will include administrative headquarters, a training
center, and a warehouse for storing contraceptives and IEC
materials.
51.        Information, Education and Communication (IEC):  Since 1974, the
basis of NFPCB's IEC campaign has been the mobile information units (MIU)
provided under the first project. The project will replace 29 of the original
MIUs in Java and Bali which have become unserviceable, and provide 21 new
MIUs, one for each province of the Other Islands. In addition, it will
provide a public address system for each of the 5,500 village family planning
clubs, and new audio-visual aids and materials. To enable the family planning
message to be adapted to the cultural setting and language of different areas
and groups, the project will set up 21 provincial media production centers in
the Other Islands, provide video equipment, and meet the costs of training
staff in the production of audio-visual aids and materials and in the use and
maintenance of equipment. Assurances have been obtained that an overall plan
for production of IEC materials will be submitted to the Bank for review not
later than December 31, 1980 (Section 3.09 of the Loan Agreement).
52.        Population Education:  The project will complete the introduction of
population education into both the formal and nonformal education sectors.
To this end, it will help train about 50,000 teachers, 4,200 school super-
visors, and 17,600 supervisors and village workers for nonformal education by
providing instructional materials, teaching equipment, fellowships and
operating costs. Assurances have been obtained that not later than June 30,
1981, a plan satisfactory to the Bank, be prepared for evaluating the popula-
tion education aspects of the project (Section 3.11 of the Loan Agreement).
/1 Provinces (10): Aceh; North Sumatra; West Sumatra; South Sumatra;
Lampung; West Kalimantan; South Kalimantan; South Sulawesi;
North Sulawesi; West Nusatenggara.
/2 Provinces (11): Riau; Jambi; Bengkulu; Central Kalimantan; East
Kalimantan; Central Sulawesi; Southeast Sulawesi; East Nusatenggara;
Timor Timur; Maluku; Irian Jaya.



- 17 -
53.       Field Supervision:  To increase the mobility of NFPCB coordinators
and supervisors working in outlying villages of the Other Islands, the
project will provide some 1,500 motorcycles. Assurances have been obtained
that arrangem..ts, satisfactory to the Bank, will be made to monitor the
operation and maintenance of these, as well as all other, vehicles required
for the project (Section 3.01(b) of the Loan Agreement).
54.       Training:  In order to strengthen and expand basic health care, the
proposed project will provide training for various categories of MCH/FP
personnel, as follows:
(a) Traditional Birth Attendants (TBAs). Some 80% of all deliveries
of babies in rura:L areas are attended by TBAs. To date, some 47,000
TBAs (out of a total of 79,000 formally registered) have received
basic training in simple hygienic birth practices, with support
from UNICEF and WIO. The Government plans to provide refresher
training for the already trained TBAs, basic training for about
20,000 TBAs, and refresher courses for TBA trainers. The project
will provide operating costs for the training and refresher
training of TBAs, and support for training materials and operating
costs for about 3,100 TBA trainers. Assurances have been obtained
that a review of the program and curriculum for TBA trainers will
be undertaken, and a copy of the review submitted to the Bank by
Decamber 31, 1980 for comment (Section 3.07 of the Loan
Agreement).
(b) Primary Health Nurses. As mentioned in para. 39 above, the Govern-
ment has decided that in the future there should be only a single
category of nurses, namely, primary health nurses. It has
established 58 schools for the regular three-year basic training of
these nurses but has still to retrain the existing nurses and
midwives into primary health nurses, which would require their
attending courses lasting three months. Such retraining would
broaden the range of services that could be provided at the
health centers. The total number to be retrained is about 11,350,
but because of the small number of available trainers, the retrain-
ing program will be limited to about 270 participants a year, or a
total of 1,080 during the four-year project period. Training will
be conducted in nine of the existing nursing schools. The project
will support this retraining program by providing vehicles, equip-
ment, training expenses, and fellowships. An assurance has been
obtained that a program for retraining nurses and midwives to become
primary health nurses will be prepared and, by December 31, 1980,
the draft program be submitted to the Bank for review (Section 3.06
of the Loan Agreement).
(c) Nursing Teachers. As an aid to their teaching, the Government plans
to give instruction in community health care to teachers in nursing



- 18 -
schools. There are some 400 such schools, and it is estimated that
about three teachers from each school (about 1,200 in total) require
training in community health care. This training, in the form of
an intensive one-month course, will be given at four established
nursing teacher schools. The capacity of the schools will allow for
30 participants per course; each school will conduct two courses a
year, so that some 960 teachers will undergo instruction during the
four-year project period. Under the project, funds would be pro-
vided for vehicles, special equipment, fellowships and training
expenses. An assurance has been obtained that a program will be
prepared for community health training of nursing teachers and, by
December 31, 1980, a draft of the program would be sent to the Bank
for review (Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement).
55.        Health Center Upgrading Program.  To strengthen the MCH system, the
Government plans to upgrade health centers in areas where there are no
hospital facilities. This upgrading will take the form of the addition of
10-bed in-patient annexes and appropriate staff. An initial group of 50
health centers, in six priority provinces,/l has been selected for this
upgrading. These centers were identified on the basis of meeting six specific
criteria: (i) remoteness from a district hospital; (ii) staff strength; (iii)
proximity to land for building the annexes; (iv) willingness of the local
government to meet recurring costs; (v) population served by the center; and
(vi) quality of existing buildings.
56.        The project will provide for the construction, furnishing and
equipping of the annexes, each of which will include a 10-bed ward, a small
operating room, a delivery room, a nurses' station, and storage. The expanded
centers will be able to care for high-risk pregnancies and deliveries,
emergency cases, IUD insertion and handling of complications, and provide
other family planning services. In order to provide these services, the exis-
ting health center staff will need to be supplemented by the addition of one
midwife, two primary health nurses, and two non-medical workers. An assurance
has been obtained that, by the time each health center annex is completed, a
full complement of staff would be assigned to each health center and annex
(Section 3.08 of the Loan Agreement).
57.       As noted above (para. 39), the Government plans to undertake a
program of assigning health center doctors to provincial teaching
hospitals for six-month courses designed to enable them to put to practical
use and further develop the clinical training acquired in medical school.
The project will support this program by providing fellowships, training
materials and operating costs for the 50 staff doctors to be assigned to the
expanded health centers. In addition, the project will assist in the
training of health center staff, local administrators and community leaders
by providing support for study tours and training sessions. During loan
LI North Sumatra; West Sumatra; South Sumatra; West Java; Central Java;
South Sulawesi.



- 19 -
negotiations, there was a consensus that a detailed and comprehensive study
should be undertaken to assess, inter alia, the total impact that the
expanded health centers (including staffing) had had on health care/family
planning services and activities.
Implementation
58.        The NFPCB and the Ministry of Health (MOH) will be responsible for
the execution, monitoring and evaluation of the population and health
components of the project respectively. The NFPCB Deputy Chairman for
Administration and Management will be designated Project Coordinator. Other
participating agencies will be the Ministry of Information (MOI) and the
Ministry of Education and Culture (MOE). The Project Coordinator will preside
over a Steering Group consisting of representatives of the NFPCB, MOH, MIOE and
MOI. An assurance has been obtained that the Steering Group will be
established no later than December 31, 1980, and will coordinate project
implementation (Section 3.10 of the Loan Agreement).
59.        Civil Works.  The NFPCB civil works component will be implemented by
the engineering unit which was specially recruited for the civil works of both
the First and Second projects. As with these earlier projects, local archi-
tectural consultants would be engaged for design and supervision. The MOH
civil works component is comparatively small (about $2.6 million equivalent
base cost, spread over 50 locations) and the basic designs will be prepared
within the MOH. About 178 sites will be required, and an assurance has been
obtained that all land needed for the construction of facilities included in
the project will be acquired according to an agreed timetable (Section 3.05 of
the Loan Agreement).
60.        IEC activities will be managed at the national level by NFPCB's
Bureau of Information and Motivation, and in the field by provincial and
district NFPCB offices. The population education component will be imple-
mented by the National Population Education Project (PNPK) in the Ministry of
Education and Culture. The PNPK will maintain close liaison with the Center
for Education and Training in the NFPCB. As the project is phasesd out, the
program and its expenses will be incorporated into the work of the Ministry of
Education and Culture.
Project Cost and Financing
61.        The total estimated cost of the project is $72.6 million, of which
$18.2 million, (about 25%) would be in foreign exchange. The tax element in
the project is insignificant. Cost estimates include (a) physical contingen-
cies estimated at 10% of base civil works costs; and (b) price contingencies
averaging 30% of base cost plus physical contingencies, assuming an annual
inflation rate of 15% in 1980 and 1981, and 10% thereafter for local
components; and 10.5% in 1980, 9% in 1981, 8% in 1982 and 7% thereafter for
foreign components. For expatriate consultants, billing rates (which include
fees, travel and housing) of $5,000/man-month have been used. Local consul-
tant fees (including detailed supervision costs) are based on the prevailing
rate for such services in Indonesia.



- 20 -
62.       The project would be financed by a Bank loan of $35.0 million, or
about 50% of total project cost less the cost of vehicles (amounting to $3.2
million, including price contingencies), on which a total import ban has been
imposed and which will be provided and financed by the Government. The loan
would cover the total foreign exchange cost ($15.4 million equivalent) except
the foreign exchange component of vehicles ($2.8 million equivalent), and
$19.6 million of local costs. The balance of $37.6 million would be
financed by the Government. Budgetary allocations for project expenditures
in 1980-81 have already been made, and an assurance has been obtained that
the Government will, in a timely manner, make adequate budgetary provisions
for all project expenditures for each forthcoming fiscal year (Section
3.01(c) of the Loan Agreement).
Procurement /1
63.       Construction (estimated to cost about $16.8 million) will be spread
over 23 provinces and 178 sites, and packaging is thus impractical. Further-
more, since none of the individual contracts is likely to exceed $1.0 million
equivalent, international contractors are unlikely to be interested in
tendering. Construction contracts will therefore be awarded on the basis of
local competitive bidding. Foreign contractors would not, however, be
excluded from bidding. Contracts estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or
more would be submitted to the Bank for review prior to award. Equipment
(medical kits, office, audio-visual and training materials) totals about $7.3
million. Most of these items are diverse and specialized and would be
required for facilities spread throughout Indonesia. Since they cannot be
packaged in lots suitable for international competitive bidding, they would be
procured through competitive bidding advertised locally following procedures
acceptable to the Bank. Foreign suppliers are well represented in Indonesia
and would not be excluded from bidding. Small off-the-shelf items, in
packages estimated to cost less than $30,000 and limited to an aggregate total
of $300,000, may be procured through prudent shopping based on at least three
price quotations. Contracts for equipment estimated to cost $100,000
equivalent or more would be submitted to the Bank for review prior to award.
Bid evaluation and contract documents not subject to prior Bank review would
be made available to the Bank for random ex-post review. Consultant services
would be procured in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Furniture (total
cost, about $3.1 million) and vehicles /2 (total cost about $2.7 million) will
be financed entirely by the Government.
/1 All estimates exclude contingencies.
/2 During loan negotiations, an understanding was reached with the Government
delegation that these vehicles would be procured in a timely manner, and
be suitable and sufficient in number for the tasks involved.



- 21 -
Disbursements
64.       Disbursements of the proposed loan would cover:  100% of total costs
for civil works; 100% of total expenditures for consultants' services; 100% of
total costs for fellowships; training of nurse-trainers, nurse and midwives,
trainers of TBAs; and in-school population education and teacher education
programs; and 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment;
95% of local ex-factory expenditures for locally manufactured equipment; and
65% of lccal expenditures for imported equipment procured locally.  Separate
accounts for all project expenditures would be maintained by the executing
agencies, and the NFPCB would be responsible for submitting all reimbursement
applications to the Bank. An assurance has been obtained that certified
copies of audited accounts will be submitted to the Bank no later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year (Section 4.02(c) of the Loan
Agreement).
Benefits, Justification and Risks
65.       While it is difficult to calculate precisely the direct contribution
the project is likely to make toward the reduction of fertility or of
maternal, infant and child mortality and morbidity, the project will help the
Government achieve its demographic target of reducing the fertility rate from
4.8 in 1979 to 3.5 by the end of Repelita III (1983/84). This will be a big
step toward the target of halving the 1971 fertility rate by 1990.  It is also
difficult to estimate accurately the number of persons who will benefit
directly from the project, but some 25 million people in the Other Islands
would be brought within reach of family planning services, the IEC program
would reach nearly all Indonesians, and the population education component
would have reached 30 million students and their teachers by the end of the
project period. The strengthening of maternal and child health services would
directly benefit an estimated 20 million mothers and their children.
Furthermore, the project will improve the organization and logistics of the
entire family planning program.
66.       The main risks foreseen for the project are that the 50 health
centers with 10-bed annexes may not be fully staffed on time (para. 56 above);
and delays in site acquisition may cause construction to fall behind schedule.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article II, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
68.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 22 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 21, 1980
Washington, D.C.



23 -                                      ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
QW9931A - socLiL lXDlCA5TO%   Swam
gOUSTA                      I1P u CZ G301  (ADJUSTED AvmCZS
LWD ARA T!ROUSAND 5q. KR.)                                                     - 48T RECUr 1Stm z)U
:OTAL           2027.1 SLN                                                             Sha      NMg  81GHZ
AGICOLTUAL       292.9                                  TS  RECDUT      CIOCGRAIC      nico0a      5COH
1960  a     1970 a  93TUMA?  a        UGIOU jc   GRoUP Li    GRouP  J
=U  PER CAPItA (U55)                   80.0        140.0     360.0            528.9      209.6        467.5
MqGT CONSUMPrTON PU  C.APt-.
(WLGRAhS 0  COAL EQUIVALET)        L29.0       120.0      218.0            371.1       83.9        262.1
POPULATION AND TtAL STATISTICS
PO89LAflON, KrM-T    (VILLIONS)      94.7        L17.6     140.0
l8U  POPLATION (P?WUT  0  TOL) 14.6               17.1      18.4             27.4       16.2         24.6
POPMATIUN PIOJTC?OUS
POPULATION IN TMA 2000   UlIONS)                         207.0
STI&IONAT POPUATION (MILLIONS)                           357.0
VUA  sniTZONAY  POPULATION I  1CZUD                     2145
POPULATION oDSITY
PER SQ. Q(.                        47.0        58.0       66.0            154.8       49.4        45.3
PER SQ. Di. IUC L.UIA  LASO    337.0          419.0      456.0            566.7      Z52.0       149.0
POPULATION AGE STrRCIUIl PClxczT)
0-14 TZS.                          40.8        44.0       41.0            41.3        43.1        45.2
15-64 TnS.                          546.1       53.5       56.0            54.9        53.2        51.9
65 TR5. UiD ABOVE                    3.1         2.5        3.0              3.3        3.0         2.a
POPULAIZON GROwM RATE (PUCn)
TOTAL                               2. 1         2.2       2.0              2.4        2.4          2.7
ZBN                                  ..         3. 7       3.3             4.3         4.6         4.3
CRME BI5TH RATE (P?T  TmOUUS   )     *7.0         43.0      37.0             30.2       42.4         39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PE  TtUSAD)        Z3.0         18.0      16.0              8.3       15.9         11.7
GROSS   POoDUCrTON  RATE              2. 8         3.2       Z. 4             2. 1       2.9          2. 7
FANtlY PLANN7NC
4CCEPTORS. AAIUAL (THOUADs)          ..       181.1    2213.0
aSES (PUCENT of 3un8         WCM)    ..         0.2       19.0             34.1       12.2        13.2
FOOD 41D MUITIT0N
L8DE Or FOOD 70?ODUCTI0N
PER CrAtTA (1969-11-100)           94.3       100.0      105.0           106.2        98.2        99.6
PER CPITA OUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT 0F
Eqn7NS5ffS)                      89.0        9 1.       98.0           104.1        93.3        94.7
PROTEaS (GRACS PFR DAY)            43.0        43.0       43.3            57.4        52.1        54.3
Of 'rIsC  ANISAL ASD PtrLSE      15.3f       14.0       16.6            16.9        13.6        17.4
CmILn (ACES 1-4) VRZU1TY SaT         31.3        22.0       19.0              4.8       18.5         l1.4
3ULT3
12F?  3PCTAZICY kT 3t7  (TEAs)    41.0           46.3       4.0             61.1        49.3        54.7
S1ASIr M(ORTALITY rATE (mP
13U054YU)                              ..       126.0         ..            4.6        105.4        16. I
ACC2SS T  SAFE WATE  C(UZCT 0F
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                           3.0       12.0            21.9        :6.3        34.4
228421                               ..        10.3       35.0            46.2        58.S        57.9
RURAL                                *-          -0        6.0            12.8        L5.8        :1.
ACCESS DO   eTA DITSPOSAL (PECENT
or POPULATIODN)
.OTAL                                ..        12.0       15.0            2d.$        16.0        a0.8
2R8At                                ..        30.0       60.0            65.0        65.1        71.3
ORAL                                 ..          '.0       5.0            14.7         3.5        27.7
?OPFLLT;0N ?ER ?DSICIAN          .1000.OLJ   26830.0   i6430.0           3790.5    i1396.4       i799..
?OPU.ATI0N PM 1SR12SG ?ESON            ..      301C.0   4$70.3            1107..    .352..        1522.i
POPULATION ?M  OSPI-5AL 3ED
-OTAL.                           :370.0      1670.0    1560.0            S13.3      1417.1        26.3
.3A.'                               ..       11.30.3        . .           03.. o      97.3       27Z.7
RURAL                                ..      1890.3         ..          1110.3      2445.9       404..
AkISS.isNS   P ?a ROSP!IL 3D           ..          ..       22..             3. 9       :.8         27.
10US1ING
ANERAGE SIZE 3P 6OUSEROLO
.0TL                                 .-         4.8         .3                         5-.          -
g-o,u                                           5.3                 9                   i           . 39i
URA3..                              4.3         . 
AVERAGE  L'3RER OF 'RSONS ?E  100
TOTAL                                ..         ..S         ..
URAN                                 .          i.     .            .-
41.41                                ..         :.*  .        ....              ..
CiZSS -0 m ZCTRIC-Y ? RCEN-
3F 3DWELL:NGS
2CTAL                                ..          ..         ..              ..        ..5         :8.
adAN                                             ..         .                .       17..
lLrRAL                                .7.                    .               .          .     .      9.
_          . .             _ _                                        .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



ANNEX I
.. - 24                -?.... Page 2 of 3 pages
MOMLA    - 5C.-.AL  =CDXctMUS     A  SMO?T
3DOIQ3:.                   34upZNS       U?S (ADJU       ALPACS
- iM   U.CMzc     t='rl)
SARI         UAL1     .=  cc=Z
1960 lb     1970 lb 93A   lb 0           G     Ic     2W  /d       OU,  im
33UCATICK
UZ5DZNUlT.:21S U1.-,OS
PtXLY:        T=&L                  S7.0         n.0         2.o             97.9        63.3         82.7
MAL3                  79.0         30.0       86.0             96.7        79.1         37.3
I8                    S.0          70.0       77.0             37.4         1.          n.s
9CUIDL?;    T1.                      6.3         15.0   t 0.0                42.2        L6.7         21.1
MALo                  10.0    u     0.0      Z.0              46.7       =2.           33.0
!DAI                   3.0          l1.0      L5.0             40.9        L0.2         15.3
7Or.UZOK&L E5XIL.. (C OI S5CAU)  20.0              Z2.0       21.0              12.5         5.6          9.-
4JP!L-rLACL 1AT0
?RnZy                               Z39.0        21..0      30.0             32.5        41.0         36.1
SEWOMaDALY                          14.0         13.0       18.3             25.8        U1.?1        23.4
A=L  LI          9    ('UZ   )         29.0         57.0      62.0              96.1        31.2         36.0
7ASSZMOfL CJs "A  m03Af
?0PO-A-11311                         1.0          2.0        3.2             6.1         Z.83         9.3
IAOLO 15G7U   PUL ~0
MOVOLAI                              7.0           ..       37.0             86.4        27.2         76.9
TV 3zt:Z7UV ?PU 0J5SAAD
POI6VT.hX                             ..          0.7        2.0             22.4         2.4         13.3
.IMSPAPUM ('LAn.T mmuz.
arnrZ3) C21C3AZ0N ?a
TOAM  ?0 ZO                              ..          ..       16.0             24.2         5.3         15.3
CZM2A At3aAL A2-MOAl  PU CAFlA   ..                   ..       0.9               3.6        1.1          2.5
LABO R C
1.4jC '03CR (GullS)    34027.0                  42209.0   51000.0
F~iALZ (?CIT)                       27.9         31.0        0.3             56.1        Z4.S         29.2
.AGUCUZ1=   (PUCf)                  74.8         66.3       60.1             54.6        A9. .        62.7
;=5:LY (?7S3=)                       3.4          9.7       12.0             16.3        10.0         L1.9
?ARTC:PA=ON          (yTuw)
tOrAL                                 36.7          35.3      34.6             40.7        36.9         37.L
W-LZ                                   56.2         49.3     4s.6              49.9        52L4         4.8
5AL                                   20.          21.6       20.8             31.0        L8.0          0.4
5CCNolcOZC !I CT  X:V:                    1.2          1.3       L.1               1.1        !.            .4
t29C0?< ltSTRtIVON
?--i=rrr 37 ?ff.7-AT-Z [rc
!C=V0D 3T
a_ii-T 5    =n:    or o sanLZs        ..         33.711       ..             L4.3          *.         15.2
311c5? 20           orU 1OUSOLOS    ..           52.0/h       ..             46.3          ..         42
.owEZ 20 ? So  or 108 307.5            ..         6.Slb       ..              6.2           .          6.3
W0:i2T s  ?!c!U   Of                             L7-3Z i 1  177 31           LS 3                     16. 
zT':MA21D 3A5S0LZZ  ?0V!tlV
18V7L6 (ass ?!I CAP1TA)
4                                      .                     10             'n.1         99.2        1'.1.3
14.1.L                                             ..      130.0            12J.1        78.9        136. 
Z5T--UTD R          PIs-71! P   :NC=
7167 (U58 ?U  Z1P2=A)
'3a84A1                               ..           ..     145.0             136.a        91.9       7;9.7
30JR1L                                                     98.0              %6          54.3        ". I
3S-L2A2ED PO1tUL:501  SELOV ABSOOL
v2  ;ZNCOME  '1IFL (-V      )
hhA3S                                              .        59.        3     _2.0         4.          2.
R65.             52.3        53.9        37.3
Yoc AvelabLe
Ic auicabie.
NOTES
/a    The adjusced group averages for each indicator arm  populaction-vtghtmd geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among Che
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noced, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 961;  for 1970, between 1969 and 1971;
and for Most Rmcen  !scimace. betveen 1974 and 1980.  Povery levels are estimated 1980 levela  at 1980 prices.
/c    east Asia i Pacific; id Low Income ($ZS0 or less per capita 1976); /. Loer   Middle Income  (5281-550 per captta,
1976); /f 1961-63; /& 1962; /h Income recipionts.
,Wac R*canc iSCtate of C47 per capita Is lot 1976.  For /opulaiom  toc cs         s for  *nd-;979.
Deceb-r 31, 1979



- 25-                                                            AflNEX I
Page 3 of 5 pages
let.   0the~  toed,  a,aw   dntM  frOe  eta,... 94nrLsJ,l  Judged the ROSt eoth6ritatIrS and. relibl., it -kSnJA a],.o he a""o that they  Wa  Mt be inteca-
~ oneeeshe baeeneof the t.k of stendw&.god d4fiLntioee ne  MMVuc neud by differlet aoartrien in  wllw,etlg the data. The data a., ammthe1n-e,
ojofol to deerib* OTcdee. of ASPLitsde, indi.to trende, nod ohereatStaes  eae-A&  sajor dirtfetne   batee.  Motrieo.
The      t                  aumm     for each indieta, a-  pepaatIo-asight0d geet,Oi.ews,. exaindln  the snt?m  vein. Of the Lndloator ent the Met  teoaad
oetey          pel          to lack of data, CM#p aveMUe of all indeatnOr  to? Capital Stofluno  Oil 2Wpertere and of i0dioator  of A..."  to Water ea  Ranerta
Dtnpe,aJ, Rossig, Temam. Dirtribatio, od Ph..ety for assay venete  groape we pOV.LOoalO--WItnG  gaaatri    S-    otOeat -oa000ts  of the as't"                       -I.-e n-d
the no     apned as"t0Y)  Un     p                                                                                                                            .Sq    -i*
-  tot reoamt netist. of e.io,ultonal. arees  .ed t001111                   poeeetagee of their reepective POpOAtioQ4. Dereta dlep-el aw  Lmo1.O
On P0    Wety  or, OCOps, pastctes, earkSt ned OltobO   gn?d-~ 0  to                       the oo..114tioa .ed dliapeei  'ith 0r oitbOt t,sammot, Of bm  torret
Li. fnj,ie.                                                                               end enO -tr.ea  by  oSyhoa    ytets or the  -n  of pit prite. ned .oia
aNpp-    9 t  .4i-t    Stabrast    prktPeie,                                         P.LAt-diroded by ahber of preCtioing phyniotnAe
1960   197, -d197     oit e:andnetodtilee   itlid976byhheel.)                                                                                           of p-ntti.ne el..
9W                                                                                                          = .- o,i,008t.  o   ,m?je   eeU    p-esatca.]  -as,n  4duite    uss
00    C,    00    , nattnrojg, Lee  ndydce, auaj.e  .e  a"e                    Pt5di5jtIootl  e      ol.ube                       .rrl-Pop iatlo  (total, urhe,
theoI oleetrieity) t in      q Wll sse of .oel Oqol0..t per opita; 1960                          eclldvIedb  thei  repoiee~?o                         pital bOde aailab1.e LI
1910. sd 1976 data.                                                                         pebio nod private  aSeral and epeoaian.d hntpital and reeabilitatioe  -ec.-
Hospttalse we ..tbhlinheenet porameectly Wtffed by at leant obs, Oniciae.
Ztst.li.bmat.  mlOOdinl pritLaLIY eatodIai Owe a-  at joelonde   ROta]
nWA      RO    -ReR          one) - An of Jo]] 1; 1960, 1970, ned                     ":t&.ibje  hoeoer  loeloe h.eth man  seia,%l oet-r  cot pe ewOtly otarfed
14T7 ft-&.                                                           w p"~~~~~~~~~~~~b *~ ioiee  (ht 0y a -"Lai anelnceet, owtes, s4idtf, *to.)  hkib ofe
WV0.  PO    tlw     eeto   otl   Rato of orbn to tota  poalet..tlo;                         I.-patiest seassdetioe  ned provide a  iatted  rnage of e.dio.l fanIlLtIes`
diereet de    ti. of Ore area  Sawgtfeft oeqeprokllity of data                       Aftfiaotalf.eber of aWeiseltae to 0o' OIeeharee St
ewg  -oetriec; 1,960, 1970, end 1975 data.                                                heiaorddbth.oe                         hd.u.
Ito     0~    Cou-eft pepAlatIne proJtions ar. bneod c
F  tOt   Pc    tio  byaeN  on and thiri  wrtLLity ned fetlity                       bsoeSixe of HMwwohld ?gman. poehneo        oa.ubnndooa
?i.  retcio             f.,er    to? rtalaicy rate. -"rig* of tito.              A OSbasehld ooa   eeo     pspo   nlode,  h  oaeLot  petr   .
1e,I.* sesnatn  life  .Vt m   St birth imr.ening eith aaaeatrY e                        their SaI neae   A herde  or lodger May or SS  at be ijaloded In the
pe  oapita iaoeeme 1-v., and fsa.Le life onpeteey etbhil.iain  at                       bosonehLd for naltoi   op.e
77.5 yea.. S.The posSetet?r  fo  fertility rat. aLew bate tore  levels               A"evi I          of lee           o. ttlL. urban, ed roa  - A-erge  Anhr
seecanedoole.i.e in fertility enoerdine to Ioom. Itwl nod poet                          of rpronper 2-ron. i         oobe,enroa. oepe    _oetlanal.   Selliogo,
feell .1mulawle  p.rfor,os.. knob --ntry IS thee t led one of the."                     .espeotioly.  W.lirog.e .a-Id"  on.-P.ressntt ot-ot-. oed nin,Pied paon..
010. olaetimboft  of abtalIty nod fertility treede for p-ojection                    Atooene topcrct   or t of dee  cee    total.  bree  en  -oa  - Cot-
99tIt4""' fZ ton  -  o    tetionory poplation th.e  1s -0 gr00th                          total,  rNSO, nod rural deefliog   respeotivly.
ii.    the        Sti    I  eqaL. to the death rat., nod abo  the nec
st,rc,tOre r.ioo  oon.tent. Thin Is achileed o0y after fertility rate.s            Eb7 l
iieeto the replensamoi level of onIt ant relrodOtio  rate, Ame                 Uw     tl     . m
saoh gaarottioa of no-   replee.n itenl  contly.l ThM  ettionnoy pop-                   PriendMaleale -ironttl   oeedfel   ee
lotio   ioe wa  ontiated 0. toe baoiao  the pro Snetd charoe?lt-iten                     'eLIo n -an'. at th  pier  lo-n as  eret -0 ofrepot-  Ipniien
of tie popsolatioo it te pear 200, 00d the rate of ILi.. of fertiitty                     co l.to-ee popel.asto; oorsa]ly inO.idee chjalir    eged 6-il year, b.t
rate to repleasseett leve.                                                                edjnted for differeat Ieegtba of pyisaxy eeaie  f0? ootri.n 0ith
Year otatloenry neuti.a in reacied - The ye.- Sen st.tloony popultion                       uni-rel edootioo  Oorolleet sen, ooeed 100 percet Oc0               o.popile
0100 henbe  r_ehed                                                                        ar s001.0? ebor  the offi..ai 000.01 nge..
00    ~ ~  ~    ~    noneyaeoi-totl,ee.                       ft !i  - CaWted as 01-0  .-...-aY
P., a.   _7,-Mi-y-a  popnLtion per etunr  kiloetnr (Lo  hett-ere) of                        odote   eonna   ee   orya.of oppro-ed primary iontetctlo..
total  T..                                                                                pr-1de. g-era   -4tai ...al, ortnr t     trei-   xansrotiot-  C.r yapil.
Per  -  Wer. Sy,flcutal  ned    oeCee  d  n ahote far  WgioaL-orL lend,                    u-o11y Co12 to 17 year. If oge; --pnnodeeo ..  ...e .a  g--era1y
.44.                                                               ... ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~alodnd.
P-ltoAd   t                 yr.pqrympt    Chlde   (0-1b Ye---), eark"n-nge                  voainierllet( tn   f                              .          ......)   VoaIna   "iott"to,-aa-1o,de
(llUVyoee),eeU  i'ThIWyeoc  en ver)as prteet.g.. of ald-yor                   Oeool   ootil   rohrpc                       oalo   Operate  -od.pemdeotly or as
popolei.aboa1960  If0  04 1977 data                                           a             dep-taftamt. of .eOon.ry loetitotios..
pceniatioe Gret  R.I. j(roe            oa]      nna AS .- rvth raten of total aid-          Pteiltnhe  ratkio     riel_    and  On dary - Tota1 etto .t   -rlod. 0
year poXS_.nltin  fo  150-600  L50070,  tO 1950-77.                                         Peno   o   .odr   oe dvidb  oOasr- of tnaotr. 1. theeO?
yvealatioa, cr.nth Rate (oarnot) - irbane -  mol  rot  ratee 0? urbe                          epeedio  lve
poVoatia   Io_I          ,  50-7, n_  17-70.                                              Adu~tlt ltoray rate (O.rot  -literate adoolts  enle to read nod -oit.)a
Cmd   jW _ t            ) ~~- onA]. lIIe hirtle  P.r thooed of aid-                    raspreteof  'toa Idol poa=to   od1  or   n 0r
~~~~~~ nd 1977 data.
Cond  lOth  at. peetho Men) - Aor.-al deaths pe  thoonon  0 000-year           YioU)4(PfIh
So.ltte  10,97,ed17Oa.                                                                          Cr prCound                                           ..wptio       anogroaneeron.  tto? earn
Gron. Rerodwntto. Rat-Acreg   _0a. of dacaghtore                     iLnn   .1  bear        neto   e,ta   Ih   eee;OOlcOOnaunoeCasn d noliteny
10 tSr oosa  reprcnotb- period if eh.  oper-aeoo     prenoot en.-                           holn
op-cfi. fe-tility ratoe.  -ononly fivey-f.  are.. cdlg 10 1960,                                          I ::Reeier   perthtnn9  oOtl-o). -,U. typen of rco-o.,. for rndio
1970, nod 1975.                                                                          broda  t. to  I0e~   0  opo  tonn f POXsoltiot; eclodeo  oni.oened
F.811. p1no.Um  - A ..to.   Cool  henado    .o.a]  boar of                                  rooor    .0 ootrie.sand O year  hohe   -(i.tratt-  of redo .et. e-  t
.-tocp-r  of birth-oootr  d-foe   -ede  npoeof catiel..   fnal.'                          effect; data for recect yeare SaY oat he -sepa-th. Sian.  -t  -ocnri.n
Plonobo  prow..                                                                           a.icihod Ili-ning.
Fully PI.."ba:  (ee U.. rosto.andns.    Perctege of learr-d                              rV Reoeacn. (Par tktoeend    X,latioEL) - TV relre,broaeaut to C ...ral
vsnof 0hl 1  -n,        .1.h.yan    t  oetrO-oto   e-c.pbLio per thandp0aaieceoo.   Ole.d  Vroceooo tri..
to  L]] earrod   ioee   10 a See ae  top.                                                 end en yeare oh.. -egitrati.. of TV n.tneenlcoffeot.
2000                                                              ROteDaper ~~~      ~~C"ruiaco   (par thnad 0cEto1an)  -bShoe  th   ov     b1io . ecojtio
!00r7~rcdoioe.otmxnemot--t.i,6-7ad)                 -:..On.ofper oapOio                J.   teak pri-aily to recordiae g-er, 0.0   It i.I ...axdnred to b0 %ialyo
feed end in on oaladarx year benia.  Cwditi.. a"cve  primnry gOoOd.                     rieadoolitoec   e   aiocrSa      ae   0teebro  it
-cogaon  icetend of eper) ohi.h are edible nod -Ont.in  otiao                      ,l  d,otoe tetye,, Il'it                     fa    Basedicn  o Oiontohoea - and Ifh belt
'0I.0~.Pcffee end tva are eooLudad).  Agergea. proahatio. of ..ho  01.-try               inico.=
bo .nd -0 OatiOna.. Ivre  prdir      r          in?                                       it..t
Pe-ant qict.].t of                                                                               E        (thte. ercet ofreotir-eop-a- Copote.trodt.A                  -
cecg eolalet o  ot food eotppLMe avial   to try per  aita                                            haed          oneo]l   Otc    esn.eool                    oe
per day.  Available coppli..  -oeri.e donastic  prcdotio, lapOrt. In...                -CreeduoeoySd bot -ox AO4e boneevi-e,  todeeto, 00. Ofon.o
.opora  . an  oheage  10 atoob.  met occptln   Ncldeedelfed  oed,a -00   oootrio.  n  00t IOoePeable.
,ontitae 0*4t  od  ronig,ndlne   to letibtion. Rewire                                F.-I. (e-          - F.-al labor forc  an peronetnge 0 totl labor Yor.e
acts n-r   tent  td by  W0  baend 00 pcoysioioec-L .eed  f-? -ore]                   liiiIirVi             ) - labo  O-v  In arsaog, forestry, Canning nod
_toloty n h Ioatth c.-ede-ag  -           -ieetal tWo,-rcir, Cody fighte,               folc  noIR10    Wp.1-Rcet    0 loctal leabr force.
age endon  dlatrtb,tionn of pouaio,ad ol13etog 10 p.-roct for                        I000-t?, 'percot) - Labor f-ro  L. emcee. oeerolo,enfatorg  And
cant. at ho,,aehold levl                                                               electricity, oSatr and gao noporactnge of tonal labor  e-c..
-0 eem      MIrot of 90000   pae   par dSy) - Pr0t000 o-teot If pot                  Psvntl i-ato  Rate (vercect) -  totlnX.ad(e                    'ati i -aito
Lapta  e     McplyofFfood per day. Wet ocopply of food to defio.d on                   rIcit Nratee are       pepoted -n tot:Al, sle,  od.aai  itbo  force  an c-er-
abv. -oieaofor .li eoutrtnn  ent.blinhad by USDA p-oide for                      -%Wotoe   of total, eale od fesal  poOOiatiee. ftIlaase,. repnti,oiy;
tieaairu-on  f 60 eren  of total prot.an on? day no  20 anas of                    1960. 1970. Ond 1975 data.  Then  n. MO  e _ pn        1ePatioo,a-eerefl tir,g
oisal nod pIe. protein, of chich 10 pore obenld he  nimal protein.                     0g-o    trootoe of thOe polation, cod 1050 tue t1lad.  A (ce o.tli-t*
Theas stadard.  -  1000  then th.e. Of 75 an     of tone] prtein ned                    or   rm     tional' ecre.
23 omm. of  leiani orototo an no a-eg  for the  _ld, proPoen  by tALO                 Eoa.o05.dn Wtio -  tatt  of p.P.tleio   odn? IC and bY nod o-r to
onteThiM rO ced Pood 3ervy.                                                         th 12  0  forebeteropOf10  ya.
Pe   nit 'rtote 0mby from anina. end  tln  -         .Pteo,npply of food
IerIved froe si-Al  and XI..0 ic (mann p r on.. 
Itl    ee   -5 tbrlitr  t.t  Or- thusnOdS - A-nol d-athn  0  thnncarevonoo  rot  IoM                            . 00   0o*  cdtos-Oontdb   iOs
'O.4-c      drooa.1, L    Y-, to coifdre So     thi   geecrp; faor east derel-            5 percent, rioeft.  SOpercs   porSt 00 prcet, and p--en  n0 percen
Ipton  -OtOt-c  data derted fry  Life tsbilr.                                             Of h-.,ehd..
reauio   tbrth;V10, IN7, and 1977. data.T                                         A. .let. pov-rty  v        evlotht  i'OenleelCoon                       -.ioa -Tsa
lfant ftrtality Rtate  ce  tiho:anno) - Oocol deathn of ifmfets under one                   =ototteca..l1  ndnqote diet ?-leo  ose-tial 000-food  -eq -ete  en .to
yea, of  g.  pr thoon            t le.brtbn                                               Affrdahie.
doCos  odt    ae    ecs o   ttlto)-ttloro.cdrrl-                                          Itste    eaiePvry:cs  lo,eI (I,IS  Pree  a                      -uban end rurl 
IneO.rt ofpolPttl   re,cdrrl    tt   onohnecn   oRrlrlto                                                      pvrty Loon  leve  tooe-or  ofe t. par ..pit.
Wae oSatr nOpply (include, tatd  ofene ontar. or untreated bot                            pereona  iL.tee of thm  coutry. Uhnleve J. inL der-od from  lb. rura  le-n
_.oootneloat.d enter  -h0   tht00  frO   protettet baraholns, oping.,                      ithi  djootnen,t for bigher tot of Li"  . t urbawean
_i antaer  0.11.) an per-ctg.gn   of their, reepeoti.e poPnolti...  1o               Et1etlaed PclainBondnot    rettco    oelOr,t(     rn   n
en bohe  anea. a  tblic fountaio Or  totdpoet looated ct at   he                         url-  otnt of topolalo   uon   o   orl   0  oennlunpo
20 enter  from a..  saon   no. Oc  oodrerd an bicin   oitlohnraoa
_'oeeIf Chat Ch.-..  in rora  Oman re salosaaabl    ee  coul  "mply
tOo  the to-ncf. or Seseer- of the thonnhold 10 cot hW  10 npeda                                                                  E...-Oc  nd Socia  Dota Oe-e..
li.prOprtiob,ste port of the day to fetchig the fneLlye. eatr cedotetoicOoiy.c  and rr                                                                     ti.c e   repntect-
A.osbut 1979



ANNEX I
-26-                                     Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL. PRODUCT IN 1978 /a                   ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln    z          1960-65           1965-70           1971-78
GNP at Market Prices            47,461  100.0          1.9                4.9               7.8
Gross Domestic Investment       10,022   21.1          3.3               11.5              14.7
Gross National Saving            9,233   19.5          5.8                5.1              12.0
Current Account Balance         -1,155   -2.4
Exports of Goods, NFS           10,278   21.7          1.5                7.8               8.9
Imports of Goods, NFS            9,144   19.3          0.2               10.9              17.9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added       Labor Force /b    V.A. Per Worker
USS lln    %          MIn     %            US$      %
Agriculture                     11,624   31.1       35.3    62.6           329    49.7
Industry                        12,672   33.9        4.7      8.3        2,696   407.3
Services                        13,043   35.0       13.4    23.8           973   147.0
Unallocated                          -    -          3.0      5.3
Total/Average                37,339  100.0       56.4   100.0           662   100.0
GOVFRtNMENT FINANCE
CENTRAL GOVFERNMENT
(Rp Billion)                             % of GDP
1977/78   1978/79                          1977    1978
Current Receipts                  3,535      4,266                         18.9    19.6
Current Expenditure               2,149      2,744                         11.5    12.6
Current Surplus                   1,386      1,522                          7.4      7.0
Capital Expenditures              2,157      2,556                         11.5    11.7
External Assistance (net)           738        987                          3.9      4.5
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977   1978
(Million Rp outstanding end period)
Money and Ouasi Money                    695      987   1,452   1,978   2,631   3,131  3,809
Bank Credit to Public Sector             129      153     209      990   1,051       883  1,442
Bank Credit to Private Sector            524      932   1,186   1,376   1,737   2,017  2,605
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP   15.2    14.6    13.5    15.6    17.0    16.7   17.5
General Price Index (1971 = 100)         106      139      196     234      280      311    336
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                      6.4    31.1    41.0    19.4    19.7    11.0    8.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector          -14.0    18.6    36.6   373.7         6.2   -16.0   63.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector           65.3    77.9    27.2    16.0    26.2    16.1   29.2
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
/a Exchange rate of Rp 415 = US$1 tlp to November 14, 1978, Rp 625 - USS1, thereafter.
/b Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
"Unallocated" consists mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
Not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
January 30, 1980



ANNFX I
-27-                                           Page 5 of 5 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENtS                       1976    1977    1978         MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(Average 1976-78)          USS Mln       x
1.  Exports:                            6,573   7,952   7,989
(a)  Oil and LNG (net)           3,710   4,445   4,010         Oil and LNG (net)             4 -'5      54.1
(b)  Nonoil                      2,863   3,507   3,979         Timber                           :S6      13.1
2.  Imports (incl. net NFS)            -6,657  -7,777  -8,129        Rubber                           653       8.7
(a)  Imports                    -6,167  -7,241  -7,543         Coffee                           488      6.5
(b)  NFS (net)                    -490    -536       586       Palm Oil                         190      2.5
3.  Resource balance                      -84      175    -140       Tin                              253       3.4
4.  Factor services                      -718    -865  -1,015        Hanufactures                     261       3.5
(a)  Interest public debt /a    -314    -436    -499           All others                       619      8.2
(b)  Other (net)                  -404    -429    -516
5.  Balance on current account           -802    -690  -1,155              Total                    7,505    100.0
6.  Direct foreign investment             287      285      271
7.  Capital grants                        100      100      100
8.  Public H & LT loan la                                            EXTERNAL DEBT - December 31. 1978
(a)  Disbursement                2,334   1,955   1,627                                         Disbursed  Undisbursed  Total
(b)  Amortization                 -457    -825    -969                                         -------- US$ million --------
(c)  Net disbursements           1,897   1,130       658
9.  Other capital (net)                  -481    -174       834      Total External Public Debt          12,983      5,794    18,777
10. Change in reserves
(- increase)                    -1,001    -651    -708
11.  Net official reserves               1,557   2,208   2,916        DEBT SERVICE RATIO                         1976    1977    1978
Reserves in months of imports + NFS        2.8      3.4      4.3      Public debt service as 2 of exports    11.7    15.9    18.4
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                       IBRD/IDA LENDING (March 31, 1980) (US$ million)
IBRD        IDA
August 1971 tlirough November 14, 1978
Outstanding 6 Disbursed                        817.30    524.00
US$1.00  -  Rp 415                                                Undisbursed                                  1,873.70    376.70
Rp 1,000 -  US$2.41                                               Outstanding incl. Undisbursed                2,691.00    900.70
Since November 15. 1978
US$1.00 - Rp 625
Rp 1,000 - US$1.60
/a Based on IBRD external debt data.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
May 6, 1980



- 28 -                    ANNEX II
Page 1 of 25 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1980)
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Two Loans and twenty-four Credits fully disbursed          98.00  321.60         -
259     1971   Tea                                                 15.00        0.40
300     1972   Population                                          13.20        1.94
319     1972   Fourth Agricultural Estates                         11.00        1.85
355     1973   Beef Cattle Development                              3.60        0.02
358     1973   North Sumatra Smallholder Development                5.00        0.80
387     1973   Third Education                                     13.50        4.25
399     1973   West Java Thermal Power                             46.00        3.04
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                   7.80        5.38
405     1973   Sugar Industry Rehabilitation                       50.00        0.47
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                       16.50        9.20
451     1974   Fourth Technical Assistance                          5.00        1.34
479     1974   Bali Tourism                                        16.00        7.70
480     1974   Fisheries Credit                                     6.50        1.41
514     1975   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                      30.00       19.07
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development Project                40.00       20.85
827     1978   Rural Credit                                        30.00       29.32
869     1979   Polytechnic                                         49.00       48.42
898     1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                          10.00        9.97
919     1979   Transmigration II                                   67.00       67.00
946     1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                        12.00       12.00
984     1980   Smallholder Rubber Development /a
Project                                            45.00      45.00
995     1980   Fifteenth Irrigation /a                             45.00       45.00
996     1980   National Agriculture Extension II la                42.00       42.00
1040     1975   Jakarta Urban Development                  25.00                 1.78
1049     1975   Five Cities Water Supply                   14.50                 4.60
1089     1975   Second Fertilizer Expansion               115.00                 0.08
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                           65.00                40.65
1127     1975   Fourth Power                               41.00                 1.94
1139     1976   Fertilizer Distribution                    68.00                 0.83
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension          21.50                15.26
1197     1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping         13.00                 7.22
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                            130.00                86.26
/a Not yet effective.



- 29 -                    AMlMN  II
Page 2 of 25 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fis'il                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
1237    1976   Fourth Education                           37.00                27.83
1250    1976   Second Shipping                            54.00                36.04
1254    1976   Third Fertilizer Expansion                 70.00                 7.34
1259    1976   Fifth Power                                90.00                41.90
1267    1976   National Food Crops Extension              22.00                11.02
1268    1976   Seventh Irrigation                         33.00                17.16
1318    1977   Transmigration and Rural Develpment    30.00                    19.07
1336    1977   Second Urban Development                   52.50                13.02
1337    1977   Tanjung Priok Port                         32.00                19.12
1363    1977   Second Private Development Finance
Co. of Indonesia (PDFCI-II)             15.00                6.35
1365    1977   Sixth Power                               116.00                60.29
1373    1977   Nutrition Development                      13.00                11.79
1433    1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education           19.00                16.12
1434    1977   Eighth Irrigation                          63.00                55.66
1435    1977   Ninth Irrigation                           35.00                26.39
1437    1977   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO III)  40.00                    10.65
1472    1977   Seco.d Population                          24.50                21.14
1486    1978   Non- .'ormal Education                     15.00                12.26
1499    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I         65.00                54.94
1513    1978   Seventh Power                             109.00               103.70
S009    1978   Bukit Asam Coal Mining and
Transport Engineering                   10.00                2.92
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                          140.00               134.57
1579    1988   Eleventh Irrigation                        31.00                27.25
1604    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II    65.00                    64.70
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                         77.00                74.01
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                    54.00                54.00
1691    1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control          50.00                49.74
(Thirteenth Irrigation)
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training               42.00                41.50
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                             130.00               128.72
1703    1979   Fourth BAPINDO                             50.00                50.00
1707    1979   Transmigration II                          90.00                90.00
1708    1979   Eighth Power                              175.00               175.00
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                        36.00                36.00
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates and
Smallholders III                        99.00               98.88
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation /a                  116.00               116.00
/a Not yet effective.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 25 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Total                                         2,691.00  900.70   2,250.40
of which has been repaid                       39.96    0.41
Total now outstanding                         2,651.04  899.29
Amount sold                            28.24               0.00
of which has been repaid           -17.57       10.67
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a             2,640.37  900.70
Total undisbursed                              1,873.70  376.70   2,250.40
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
-31 -                    Page 4 of 25 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1980)
Fiscal                                Type of             Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor                business            ---- (US$ million) ----
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement              10.6      2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                   Textiles             2.5      0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles                2.0      0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia          Cable                2.8      0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles            4.5       1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism                11.0         -      11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               5.4      0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles                2.0      0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan             Electronics          0.9         -       0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                    Devel. Fin. Co.        -      0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles             2.4      0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               5.0       1.5       6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement                 -       1.1       1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles            0.3          -       0.3
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles             1.4      0.1         1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                  Textiles             0.9         -       0.9
Total gross commitments                             51.7      10.5       62.2
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                 33.9       2.1       36.0
Total held by IFC                                   17.8       8.4       26.2
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)           -        -          -



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 25 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (514, 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                               6-8
1579, 1645, 1691, 1811 and 995)
Other Agriculture Production (259, 319, 355, 358, 400, 405, 480,              8-10
1318, 1707/919, 1499, 1604, 1751            10-12
and 984)
Agriculture Support Serv'ices (1179, 1267 and 996)                            12
Rural Development (946)                                                       12
Agro-Business and Credit (785 and 827)                                          13
Education (387, 869, 1237, 1433, 1486 and 1692)                                13-15
Energy (399, 1127, 1259, 1365, 1513 and 1708)                                  16-17
Industrial Development and Finance
Fertilizer Production (1089 and 1254)                                        17
Industrial Estates (428)                                                     18
Development Finance Companies (1363, 1437 and 1703)                           18
Coal Mining (S-9)                                                             19
Population and Nutrition
Population (300 and 1472)                                                    19
Nutrition (1373)                                                             20
Technical Assistance (451, 898 and 1197)                                       20-21
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (1139)                                               21
Highways (1236 and 1696)                                                    21-22
Marine Transport (1250)                                                       22
Ports (1337)                                                                 23
Tourism (479)                                                                   23
Urban Development (1040, 1336 and 1653)                                        23-24
Water Supply (1049 and 1709)                                                   24-25
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 25 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension: $30 Million Credit of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date:  January 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Initial organizational difficulties and late awarding of contracts
have caused a delay of about two years in the project schedule. Based on
bid prices for the first contracts and revised quantity estimates on the
basis of detailed design, total project cost is now estimated to be about
140% over the appraisal estimate and the project is currently expected to be
completed by December 1982. The Closing Date of this credit is expected to
be extended.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  $65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date:  June 20. 1975; Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
The project is currently expected to be completed by March 1984,
about three years behind the original completion date. This is mainly due to
a delay of more than one year in the completion of bidding documents, followed
by a delay of another year due to delayed land acquisition, delayed payments
to contractors and the effects of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation. Because of
double digit inflation and the Rupiah devaluation the total project cost is
currently estimated at $227 million, which is $24 million more than the last
mission estimate and about 38% above the appraisal estimate. Disbursements
are currently about 50% of the appraisal estimate, but are expected to
significantly increase in FY80/81. All major contracts have been awarded and
sufficient funds are allocated for the programmed construction this year.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  $33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Construction is underway in the North Sadang and tertiary develop-
ment areas, and studies being funded under the project are expected to be
completed shortly. The mapping progam is progressing satisfactorily.
Disbursements are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  $63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
The project is being implemented satisfactorily, although disburse-
ments are currently about 80% behind the appraisal estimate largely due to



- 34 -
A.NUEX II
Page 7 of 25 pages
delays in the Madiun rehabilitation and Ciujung drainage components, and
partly due to late payment to contractors. Disbursements are expected to
improve in succeeding semesters because of increased activity in these
components.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  S35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977; Effective
Date:  July 7, 1977; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981.
Initial delays cannot be expected to be made up during construction
and the final completibn date is estimated to be March 1983, a delay of 21
months.  Further delays would occur if right-of-way lands are not initiated
in advance of the construction program. Works are proposed to be executed
under small to medium contracts using manual labor instead of equipment.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  $140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Delay in implementation of the project components is about 12
months. Some delays have occurred ir. awarding contracts and the construction
program will have to be accelerated to achieve the completion target.  Pro-
gress of studies of dams and irrigation subprojects is behind schedule due
to the late awarding of contracts for aerial mapping for the Kali Progo, Way
Seputih and Way Sekampung areas. Progress on studies at Dumoga and Gumbasa
has been satisfactory. The staff of the PIBD, the Executive Body for Major
Irrigation Projects with World Bank Assistance, will have to be strengthened
in order to cope with the increased construction program from FY80/81 onwards.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  $31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
A smooth start has been made on some components but two components
are behind schedule due to unforeseen technical problems and delays in
drawing up tender documents.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  $77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
A smooth start to project implementation is being made. Contracts
for consulting services were awarded before or only slightly beyond the dead-
line except for those for the Jatiluhur Tertiary Development component, which
is slightly behind schedule. Completion of the Cisedane Drainage Component
will be about six months late due to the delay in completing tender documents
and in acquiring rights-of-way for the first civil works contract. The
initial delays in Jatiluhur are expected to be made up during construction and
final completion may still be as projected during appraisal. Similar delays
in Cisedane are unlikely to be recovered and a six-month delay in final
completion is anticipated. The total project cost is expected to be within
the original estimate.



- 35 -                    ANNEX II
Page 8 of 25 pages
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  $51 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date:  October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
This loan became effective last October and the _' Jtial progress is
satisfactory. Consultants have been engaged for the construction supervision
and studies provided under the project. The construction of river training
works and flood protection levees under six on-going contracts is progressing
well and on schedule. Two major works, the construction of the Rambatan
Channel and Bangkir control structure are scheduled for bid opening in June
1980. The major difficulty foreseen at this stage is the land acquisition for
the rights-of-way. The implementing agency is aware of this problem and is
trying to resolve it. Disbursements are presently below appraisal estimates.
Loans No. 1811  Fourteenth Irrigation Project:  $116 Million Loan of April 3,
1980; Effective Date: Not yet effective;
Closing Date: Januarv 31, 1986
This loan has not yet been declared effective.
Credit No. 995 Fifteenth Irrigation Project: $45 Million Credit of April 3,
1980; Effective Date:  Not yet effective;
Closing Date: January 31, 1985
This credit has not yet been declared effective.
Other Agriculture Production
Credit No. 259 Tea: $15 Million Credit of June 24. 1971; Effective
Date: September 17, 1971; Closing Date: August 31, 1980.
Nearly all the targets set at appraisal have been achieved one year
ahead of project completion, but factory capacity still has to be expanded
to take account of the increased production which exceeds appraisal estimates
by about 6,000 tons, or 30%. Financial, technical and managerial performance
has been excellent. Inflation and additional construction and equipment
costs increased project costs by about 17% above appraisal estimate, but the
economic rate of return is good and is expected to be over 20%. The closing
date has been extended to August 31, 1980, in order to make payment for goods
ordered but not delivered by the previous closing date.
Credit No. 319 Fourth Agricultural Estates: $11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The planting program under the project has been completed and the
construction of processing facilities should be completed by the middle of
1981. Production, profitability and costs of PNP X continue to be satisfac-
tory although oil palm output is down as a result of processing problems at
Bekri Mill.  PNP X has expanded its operations further under Loan 1499-IND



- 36 -                   ANNEX II
Page 9 of 25 pages
(NES I), and its work on planting rubber for smallholders under NES I and
under Loan 1318-IND (Transmigration I) is progressing well. Nevertheless,
there are some temporary difficulties, but overall project performance remains
very satisfactory.
Credit No. 355 Beef Cattle Development: $3.6 Million Credit of
January 31, 1973; Effective Date:  May 30, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
The-PT Bina M4ulya Ternak Corporation (PTBMT) is now managed by
Indonesian staff with satisfactory technical capability. Development of ranch
infrastructure and fencing has been completed, but pastures on both Sulawesi
ranches remain understocked. Fertility levels of cattle are low and as yet no
satisfactory solution has been found to improve the situation. A three-year
pasture and grazing research program with Australian bilateral assistance
started in early 1979 and it is expected that, inter alia, the cause for low
fertility may also be determined in 1980 or 1981. Purchases of domestic stock
in 1979 enabled PTBMT to partially utilize its surplus grazing capacity and
improve its finances. The budget for 1980 has been approved and sufficient
funds are available to meet investment and operating expenditures in 1980 and
up to project completion, about mid-1980. The recording system in PTBMT is
satisfactory; there are no specific disbursement problems.
Credit No. 358 North Sumatra Smallholder Development: $5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date:  August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The 9,000 ha planting program under the project is now completed.
Rubber and oil palm continue to show very satisfactory growth with the
1974/75 plantings of rubber and oil palm coming into production. Control of
weeding and general maintenance standards will require close supervision up
to 1982/83 when all plantings reach maturity.
Credit No. 400 Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: $7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date March 31, 1982
The project provides credit through Bank Rakyat Indonesia and
extension advice through a Project Management Unit for improvement of
Indonesian smallholder and private estate tea. Of 13,200 ha, 60% was to be
rehabilitated and 40% replanted.  Participants have preferred more costly
replanting and the objective has therefore been changed to 10,500 ha, and
the proportions reversed. Production will not be adversely affected since
replanting yields are higher. Costs are now estimated to exceed appraisal
estimates by about 60% since replanting is more expensive and costs have
risen sharply because of inflation. Disbursements are behind appraisal
estimates for the same reasons. The project has made a significant impact
on the private sector of the Indonesian tea industry. The project training
program is especially noteworthy having now involved more than 9,000
smallholders through practical village training schemes.



- 37 -
ANINEX II
Page 10 of 25 pages
Credit No. 405  Sugar Industry Rehabilitation:  US$50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date: April 22, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Factory rehabilitation (PTP XV and XXI/XXII) completed, but
performance still below appraisal forecast. PTP XXI/XXII is taking vigorous
steps to improve performance and re-orient field staff to the Government
decision that all sugarcane be grown by farmers, none on land rented by
factories - a traumatic and dislocating change. PTP XV is finding it more
difficult to adapt. The three modern project factories at Pesantren,
Gempolkrep and Sragi have minor problems on completion of the 1979 season.
Cane areas have expanded about as forecast, but average yields are much
lower due to switch to farmers' cane and PTP lack of experience in farm
extension work (being remedied). PTP XXI/XXII made a substantial profit in
1979 ($11.3 14); PTP XV made a substantial loss ($3.6 M), though its lowest
loss in five years. Capital reconstruction for PTP XV is being actively
considered. Uneven supply and poor quality of cane, through improving,
still inhibit results. Cost reduction is being achieved, but desirable
factory amalgamation is resisted because it would reduce employment. The
Indonesian Sugar Experiment Station (Pasuruan) has been reorganized to meet
the need for more intensive research on new varieties, especially rainfed
and ratooning, and on intercropping and upland soil fertility; required
additional funds are included in the National Agricultural Research Project.
Credit NW. 480 Fisheries Credit: $6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
Initial delays have put the project about 18 months behind schedule.
The marine fishing complex at Ambon is completed, making a promising start
with twenty fishing boats operating, ten by the Government's skipjack tuna
enterprise and ten by a cooperative; two 100 gross ton catcher/carriers have
been ordered. The quality of fishpond lending by Bank Rakyat Indonesia
suffered early deficiencies, but is now completed; results are patchy and
arrears excessive in some areas. Coverage is much less than appraisal fore-
cast (31% of farmers, 60% of area) and details not yet available, but infla-
tion and the inability of smaller owners to participate are probably the
reasons.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  $30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Overall project performance has been slower than expected. An
additional 400 families have been settled at Baturaja, bringing the total
to 2,200 compared to a target of 3,100. About 1,800 ha is being cropped
at Baturaja. Project management has been strengthened by recruitment of
some new staff. Infrastructure work at villages 4 to 8 is slow due to



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 25 pages
shortage of of funds and for the same reason no new contracts have been
signed. No progress has been recorded on the seed farm which is still 70-
130 ha short of target and pastures have still not been satisfactorily
developed. Detailed plans for villages 9, 10 and 11 are now being prepared
by the implementing agency.
Loan Nio. 1707   Transmigration II:  $90 Million Loan and $67 Million Credit of
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
There have been some delays in the implementation of the project
owing to the necessity to resurvey and map a significant portion of the
project areas. However, rapid progress has recently been achieved and it
should be possible to maintain the original implementation schedule. Bids
for land clearing and construction of roads have been evaluated and the con-
tract is expected to be awarded shortly.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholder I:  S65 Million Loan
of November 18. 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project's overall physical progress has been generally good
but unequal. While in some areas the planting program substantially exceeded
the target, in others it remained behind schedule, but recently, energetic
measures have been taken to make up for the delays. Housing, roads and
village development is behind schedule but preparations are under way which
should accelerate implementation in the forthcoming months.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder II:  $65 Mlillion Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The planting program is almost on schedule, but housing, roads and
village development is behind. The appointment of new project manager and
support staff from local authorities have helped speed up implementation.
The management of PTP IV, the local authorities and the Directorate General
of Estates have agreed to the Bank's recommendation that preparations for
the construction of settlers' houses should start immediately and that the
upgrading and staffing of the Sungai Tiga Extension and training Center in
Jaabi should be implemented.
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders III:  $99 Million
Loan of August 13, 1979; Effective Date:  November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project is off to a good start.  Reasonable progress has been
achieved in the estate development components, and preparations being made
to start implementation of the smallholder components this year should
result in the planting of about 5,000 ha of smallholder rubber and the
settlement of the first 600 participating settlers by March 1981.



39 -                ANNEX II
Page 12 of 25 pages
Credit No. 984 Smallholder Rubber Development Project: $45 Million Credit
of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: Not yet effective;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
This credit has not yet been declared effective.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179   Agricultural Research and Extension I:  $21.5 Million
Loan of December 19. 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
There has been overall progress in all spheres of activities.
Under the Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD) civil work
have been started at Sungei Putih, Sembawa (rubber), Pangragajian, Margahayu,
Baruajak (highland vegetables) and Sukamandi (Phase I, rice and palawija
crops). The research programs are now better defined and more purposeful
and several new varieties are expected to be released shortly.  All of the
ten Agricultural Information Centers were inaugurated on September 24, 1979.
Although disbursements are still lagging behind appraisal estimates, they
are expected to pick up shortly.
Loan No. 1267   National Food Crops Extension; $22 Million Loan of
June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30. 1982
Good progress is being made in the field and, despite organiza-
tional difficulties, an effective extension service is being created.
Appointments of extension staff are ahead of schedule and the project
directorate has been strengthened by the appointment of three additional
Assisant Directors. Civil works have been resumed and the training program
has started. Disbursement is lagging in every category due to prefinancing
difficulties and delays in submission of withdrawal applications with support-
ing documentation for equipment and furniture. The new procedure for pre-
financing outlined by the Finance Ministry last year is expected to help
solve the problem and speed up project implementation and disbursement.
Credit No. 996 Second National Agricultural Extension Project: $42 Million
Credit of April 3, 1989; Effective Date: Not yet effective;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The credit has not yet been declared effective.
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogvakarta Rural Development: $12 Million Credit of
August 13. 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date:  March 31, 1987



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 25 pages
This credit became effective in December 1979 and the start of
implementation has been smooth. A Project Coordinating Unit has been
established and staffed within BAPPEDA (the provincial development planning
agency) and the working papers have been translated into Bahasa Indonesia
for distribution to the participating agencies. A Project Steering Committee
has also been set up by the Governor of Yogyakarta.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: $40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project, which provides financial and technical assistance to
strengthen Bank Indonesia's (BI) small credit programs, KIK/KMKP, became
effective August 17, 1978. Despite start-up difficulties, BI has now
established and staffed all project management units. The three field units
in Central Java, East Java, and West Sumatra are developing new lending
approaches and assisting handling banks in project promotion and preparation.
The training and studies components of the project are progressing satis-
factorily.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: $30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical assis-
tance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, training,
credit procedures and accounting and management information systems. Due
primarily to delays in obtaining project consultancy, the project is about
nine months behind schedule.
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387  Third Education:  $13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Data: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The first textbook project is an ambitious undertaking under diffi-
cult circumstances.  Since the start five years ago, over 150 million books
have been printed, 120% of the appraisal target, and about 430,000 teachers
have been upgraded, or 23% over the original target of 350,000. About 100
million books have been distributed to schools. Delivery of books takes
about one month to a year depending on the location of schools. The Project



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 25 pages
Implementing Unit advises that the remaining 50 million textbooks (grades 5
and 6) will have been printed by September 1980 and delivered before the
Closing Date. Project costs have increased due to the increased scope of
the proje- t and inflation since 1973 which has affected the cost of paper,
printing and transportation.
Credit No. 869 Polytechnic: $49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date: May 11, 1979: Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is designed to help the Government meet the demand for
engineering technicians and trained accountants. The engineering technicians
(polytechnic) component is making reasonable progress. Staff appointments
follow the appraisal schedule. The first civil works contract for grading
work of the Technician Education Development Center (TEDC) and the Bandung
polytechnic (PT) have been awarded. Contractors for the remaining civil
works have been prequalified. Bids for the construction of the TEDC and
the Bandung PT were opened in March and evaluation in April, about six months
behind schedule. Equipment for the TEDC and Bandung PT is being tendered
and is scheduled to be awarded in September 1980, about three months behind
schedule. The PT expert services program is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  S37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
19 30
The three subprojects under the Ministry of Education (MOE), Minis-
try of Manpower (MIOM) and National Institute of Administration (LAN) suffered
(a) initial delays due to slow site acquisition and late contracting agencies;
and (b) additional delays due to slow awarding of physical facilities because
of weak project management, late release of budget funds and late ministerial
approvals. Overall delays amount to about two years and will require post-
ponement of the Closing Date.  The MOE component's objectives are to build,
equip and commission four Technical Training Centers (TTCs) for technical
training at secondary level and two Faculties of Technology in Teacher Train-
ing Colleges (F1Ts).  Civil works are completed and 75% of equipment contrac-
ted, but due to the necessity to retender some equipment, the project is about
two years behind appraisal schedule. The M4OM component's objectives are to
build, equip and commission 17 new vocational training centers and to provide
26 mobile training units. About 50% of civil works are completed and 45%
of equipment contracted. Technical assistance is on schedule. The LAN compo-
nent's objectives are to provide buildings, furniture, equipment and technical
assistance for the principal civil service training Institute in Indonesia.
Civil works are 20% complete, two years behind schedule, procurement of
furniture and equipment follows the civil works schedule.



ANNEX II
- 42 -                         Page 15 of 25 pages
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  $19 Million Loan of June 6. 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project which finances the development of primary and secondary
teacher training has made satisfactory progress with the implementation of
the educational aspects. The National Team of 40 educators has completed the
in-country training of 110 educators and initiated training of 7,000 staff of
primary teacher training colleges (SPGs) and secondary teacher training
colleges (IPIPs). The implementation of physical aspects is delayed by 6-12
months because of problems with site acquisition, late release of budget
funds, and late approvals of recommended awards. Therefore, only about 15%
of civil works have been awarded and 4% completed. Corresponding percentages
for equipment are 28 and 16. Despite the delays, the Project Implementing
Unit still expects to complete the project on schedule.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  $15 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977: Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the nonformal education programs
of the Department of Education in seven provinces by financing civil works
to renovate two and establish four provincial centers, instructional equipment
and vehicles, in-service training, materials development, a basic learning
fund, and related technical assistance. The project is making reasonable
progress. Civil works for all six centers have been awarded, two are comple-
ted and in use, three are about 90% completed and one, the Center of Semarang
has just been awarded. Furniture has been tendered for the four new centers
and about 55% of equipment has been awarded. Compared to appraisal estimates,
the physical facilities are delayed about 12 months. Progress in the educa-
tional aspects is that of 64 fellowships, 54 have been awarded and 44 conclu-
ded. Under the expert services program, two experts have completed services,
nine are in post, and four are still to be recruited. Staff appointment and
material development are on schedule.
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  $42 Million Loan of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of the Government's long-
term strategy to improve the quality and supply of middle level agricultural
manpower. It finances the renovation, furnishing and equipping, expansion
and relocation of 26 existing agricultural development schools and 16 exist-
ing agricultural in-service training centers; and the construction and
furnishing and equipping of 5 agricultural development schools and 7 agricul-
tural in-service training centers. It also provides technical assistance
for the improvement of curricula, education planning and evaluation. The
Project Implementation Unit is now fully staffed and implementation is gener-
ally on schedule. No major implementation problems have yet been encountered.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 25 pages
ENERGY
Credit No. 399 West Java Thermal Power: $46 Million Credit of June 22,
1973; Effective Date: August 28, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Project implementation was initially delayed due to the necessity
of making additional financing arrangements to meet higher than estimated
equipment costs. Thereafter implementation proceeded smoothly. Both the 100
MW generating units are now in commercial operation. Arrangements are being
made to release retention payments. Disbursements are expected to be com-
pleted before the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1127   Fourth Power:  $41 Million Loan of June 17, 1975;
Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
The third 100 MW generating set at Muara Karang Thermal Power
Station was put into commercial operation in November 1980. The set is
operating satisfactorily. Disbursements are expected to be completed before
the target closing date (mid-1980) as forecast.
Loan No. 1259   Fifth Power:  $90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: September 20. 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1981
All equipment required for the project has been ordered in three
lots within the cost estimate. By end 1980 about 90% of the disbursement
would be complete. However, construction work lags behind schedule. While
there has been good progress on construction of 20 kV cables, installation
of the associated substations is well behind schedule. This is due to
problems of acquisition of land which the Government has been requested to
assist in solving.
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  $116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977: Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Construction of the fourth and fifth generating sets (200 MW each)
has been delayed mainly due to a misalignment of the center line of the
turbogenerator and power house foundations. There has been an inordinate
delay by the consulting engineer in finding an appropriate solution to the
problems. The fourth generating set is expected to be in commercial opera-
tion around Mtay 1981, about 9 months later than the contract date, but only
3 months later than forecast at appraisal. Engineering of the Semarang 3
(Seventh Power) project and of the Java Interconnected system is proceeding
satisfactorily.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 25 pages
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  $109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978;
Effective Date:  June 30, 1978; Closing Date:  December 31,
1983
All contracts, except for general construction and steel work have
been awarded at highly competitive costs. A reduction in foreign costs of
about $30.0 million is presently expected. Delays in award of contracts
for civil works caused by introduction of new procedures for such contract
awards by the Government have resulted in a three-month delay in the tight
construction program. It will delay commissioning of the 200 MW generating
set which is now expected in August 1982.
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  S175 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: November 5, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Project implementation is on schedule so far, towards a target of
commissioning of the unit in January 1984, which was the appraisal estimate.
Bids for turbine generator and auxiliary equipment were evaluated and a
letter of intent for the contract was issued in January 1980 as scheduled.
Bids for steam generator and auxiliary equipment are under evaluation.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Fertilizer Production
Loan No. 1089   Second Fertilizer Expansion:  $115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975; Effective Date: April 29, 1975;
Closing Date: August 31, 1980
The project (PUSRI III) was commissioned April 9, 1977, one month
ahead of schedule. During the eight months of operation in 1977, the
project operated at 66% capacity utilization, which increased sharply to
about 92% in 1978 with the overcoming of initial technical problems.
The project is not expected to show a cost overrun.
Loan No. 1254   Third Fertilizer Expansion:  $70 Million Loan of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: August 15, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project (PUSRI IV) was commissioned on November 26, 1977,
about four months ahead of schedule. During 1978, PUSRI IV produced nearly
470,000 tons of urea, reflecting a capacity utilization of 83% in the first
year of operation. Some auxiliary facilities are planned to be expanded in
1980. The project is not expected to show a cost overrun.



ANNEX II
- 45 -                  Page 18 of 25 pages
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: $16.5 Million Credit of
September 14, 1973: Effective Date: November 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate is now scheduled for completion
in 1982. Of 400 ha of raw land now earmaked for acquisition, 331 ha had
been purchased as of early 1979. 127 ha of the 270 ha of developed land
reserved for factory use has been sold to 107 firms, with full capacity
employment estimated at around 22,000. Slack sales and difficulties in
land acquisition have reduced the amount of land planned for sale from 337 ha
to 270 ha. Operations are profitable with a cash surplus and bank deposits
of Rp 2,389 million over the past three years to the project owners, the
Municipal Government of Jakarta and the Government of Indonesia. The project
is projected to remain profitable.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI:  $15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effective Date: April 21. 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1437   Third BAPINDO:  $40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
The project is being implemented satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  $50 Million Loan of June 1. 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979: Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
This loan became effective last September and progress is satis-
factory.



-46 -                    ANNEX II
Page 19 of 25 pages
Coal Mining
Loan S-9         Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Transport Engineering:
$10 Million Loan of May 19, 1978; Effective Date:
December 22, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project consists of identifying and engineering much of an
optimum mining and tran,sportation system to mine about 3.0 million tons per
year and ship about 2.5 million tons per year of coal to a power station which
is under construction at Suralaya in West Java. The project has experienced
some initial delays but is now progressing satisfactorily.
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Credit No. 300 Population: $13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31. 1980
The performance of the Indonesian national family planning program
continues to show satisfactory results. Since 1972/73 the program targets
have been fully achieved and, in some cases, exceeded. The implementation of
the project is in its final stages. The construction of all buildings has
been completed and furniture and equipment procured, offices in Jakarta and
six provinces have been occupied and all provincial and subprovincial training
centers and nine nurse/midwife training schools are in operation. Most of the
population education activities have been completed and the remainder are
expected to be completed this year. The production of films and procurement
of a computer financed out of savings under this project will also be com-
pleted this year. The only delay expected will be in the training of secre-
taries and program managers, but this problem is expected to be resolved
shortly.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population:  $24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date: April 30,
1983
The implementation of the second population project is proceeding
satisfactorily. The construction of all buildings has been completed, except
the National Family Planning Training Center (NFPTCO which is currently being
constructed. Since the Bank is financing only four floors and common services
for the eight-storey NFPTC and office building, it has proposed that it reim-
burse the Government 65% of the total cost and is awaiting their response with
regard to the remaining 35%.  All furniture has been procured and all vehicles
will be delivered shortly. There continues to be delay in implementation of
the pilot community incentive scheme, due to protracted discussions between
the Government and Bank on the form of the study. With the completion of the
ten Provincial Training Centers, it has become necessary for the National



ANNEX II
Page 20 of 25 pages
Family Planning Coordinating Board to recruit trainers for these centers,
although difficulties are being experienced in finding qualified candidates.
Delays have occurred in the implementation of the population education
component due to changes in curricula; delays in the release of funds have
hampered the training of trainers for vocational schools. However, all the
population education activites are expected to be completed on schedule by
early 1981.
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  $13.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1977; Effective Date:  March 31, 1977: Closing Date:
March 31, 1982
Progress under the project is satisfactory. Construction of the
Nutrition Academy has been completed and equipped and it is in full use. Its
student enrollment has increased from 100 to 160. The Nutrition Intervention
Pilot Project, the anemia control and home gardens components, as well as the
fellowships program, are proceeding with minor delays. The Food Technology
Development Center civil works construction is virtually complete and services
are being installed, and Wings I, II and staff housing of the Center for
Research and Develpment in Nutrition have been constructed and services are
being installed; Wing III proceeds according to plan.  While monitoring and
evaluation units for each component have been operational for six months, the
central monitoring and evaluation unit of the Project Secretariat is just
starting to be staffed.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: $5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974: Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Progress under the project is satisfactory. The Closing Date has
been postponed by one year.
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: $10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 1979: Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
This credit became effective in September 1979 and progress is
satisfactory.
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mlapping:  $13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effecti-ve Date: April 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and MIapping
(BAKOSURTANAL) complex at Cibinong is completed, and most of the cartographic,
photographic processing, and printing equipment required to produce maps is



- 48 -
ANNEX II
Page 21 of 25 pages
installed. Resource evaluation activities, including the compilation of data
for Southern Sumatra and a study for the Directorate-General of Estates of
coconut lands to be replanted in Sulawesi and Lombok, are also proceeding in
the new complex. Recruitment and training of new staff, particularly junior
operatives, has accelerated. The new photography financed under the Canadian
parallel project will shortly be available, by which time BAKOSURTANAL hopes
to have installed color photo processing equipment and to have fully trained
specialized teams of operatives in the various map production fields.
TRANSPORTATION
Fertilizer Distribution
Loan No. 1139   Fertilizer Distribution:  $68 Million Loan of July 10.
1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project has been substantially completed at a cost 20% below
the appraisal estimate. Work on the five original port deposits is com-
pleted and the sixth depot, which was approved in 1977 as an extension
financed from project savings, is nearing completion. All four ships,
including the additional ship approved in 1977 and paid for from project
savings, have been delivered and 52 of 58 inland storage depots are com-
pleted. All the ships, port depots and storage depots are operating.
Shipping operations have not been as cost effective as they could be, due to
some extent to existing large stocks of fertilizer requiring ships to be
used for longer distances for exports. Cost have also been increased
because of delays in ship turnaround time caused by the need to clear
customs on interisland voyages and the cumbersome procedures involved.
These matters were taken up with PUSRI and improvements are expected.
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31. 1980
All key activities in the implementation schedule agreed with the
Government are completed but with delays of about one year. Construction of
1,200 km are under way and a last retendered contract of 45 km has started.
Some problems and delays in executing roads prevailed for contracts started in
1976; delays were also encountered in awards of contracts scheduled for 1977.
The 1978 devaluation also contributed to a slower apparent rate of
disbursement as cost adjustments to Rupiah construction contracts had to be,
and still are, being made. While remedial measures taken in 1978/79 (and
others planned) have improved the rate of physical progress and disbursements,



- 49 -
ANNEX II
Page 22 of 25 pages
project completion is still forecast at 15-18 months beyond the loan's present
Closing Date. Project costs in US$ are likely to be within appraisal
estimates but Rupiah costs are up significantly due to the devaluation.
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: August 28, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Delays have been encountered in awarding contracts for about
500 km of road works which were tendered in mid-1979, somewhat behind the
implementation schedule. The 300 km balance of road works was scheduled
for tendering in May 1980, nearly 10 months behind the schedule. Preparation
of development programs for eight provincial public works departments (DPUPs)
has also fallen behind, and other project components closely linked to, or
forming integral parts of, the DPUP programs, such as procurement of road
maintenance equipment and construction of major support works, are now about
one year behind schedule. Delays have occurred also in appointing consul-
tants, but these delays are less serious.
Marine Transport
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  $54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Although the delay in the appointment of a number of consultants had
caused a slow start to the project and slowed project implementation and dis-
bursements, progress has now been made in making effective consultant
contracts for sea transport planning (ISTS Team); for improving maritime
training (IMCO project); and for extending the contract for financial and
technical advisers to P.T. PANN, the project entity. Progress has also been
made by the new management of PANN and of the state shipping company, PELNI,
in their new roles and very encouraging financial results have been achieved
by applying cash control as proposed by consultants financed by the Bank. It
is likely though that only about 40% of the loan will be disbursed by the
December 31, 1980 Closing Date. Some of the major problems facing PANN in
acquiring and leasing ships are: (a) the effect of the 1978 devaluation of
the Rupiah; (b) continued overtonnage in the fleet; and (c) the reluctance of
the Government in undertaking a ship scrapping program and in enforcing its
safety and ship classification regulations. It is anticipated that the scope
of the loan will be broadened to include other than general cargo inter-island
ships and that an extension of the present Closing Date will be requested.



- 50 -
ANNEX II
Page 23 of 25 pages
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port Project:  $32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Slow progress on the construction of Government-financed works has
delayed construction of the first component, but progress is being made. The
Government-financed works in Basin III, delayed due to the impact of the 1978
Rupiah devaluation, are 98% completed, and the Basin III civil works financed
by the Bank loan, also delayed due to the devaluation, are 65% completed.
Civil works financed by the Bank loan in the Regional Harbor, are 37% com-
pleted. The work is now three months in arrears and a revised construction
schedule is being prepared. These delays will probably postpone overall
completion of the project to mid-1981 but it is too early to estimate the
full effect of delays on project cost. The Closing Date has been extended
by two years from December 31, 1979.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: $16.0 Mlillion Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
Construction of major infrastructure and related facilities for
the Nusa Dua tourism estate is under way and scheduled for completion in
mid-1980; construction of the hotel training school has been completed. The
completion of project components outside the estate (i.e. roads) is scheduled
for December 1981. Visitor traffic to Bali has been growing; it rose by 8%
in 1977 to 286,000 visitors and by a further 13% in 1978 to 328,000; the
trend continued in 1979 but the increase in the number of foreign visitors
has been modest due to re-emerging air access difficulties, particularly by
foreign carriers to Bali. Three potential hotel projects for Nusa Dua are
under consideration; however, while no final commitment has yet been made.
Construction of a first hotel at Nusa Dua is expected to start in 1980 for
completion by mid-1982.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1040   Jakarta Urban Development:  $25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974; Effective Date: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The kampung improvement part of the project has been completed.
Some 2,080 ha have been upgraded, compared with the original plan of 1,980 ha.
The Klender sites and services component is about 98% complete. Of the total,
6,872 lots have been allocated to date, about 6,500 lots having been occupied.



- 51 -
ANNEX II
Page 24 of 25 pages
The entire 7,250 units are expected to be available this year. The Closing
Date was recently extended by nine months due to delay in completion of the
project.
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  $52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project consists of provision of basic sanitary facilities
including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste disposal to about
3,000 ha of densely populated areas in Jakarta and 374 ha in Surabaya.
Community health workers are to be trained under a pilot program in both
cities. Upgrading costs for the first two-year program have been within the
appraisal estimates. However, the costs for the third-year program have been
affected by the 1978 Rupiah devaluation. About 3,435 ha of kampungs in
Jakarta and 441 ha of kampungs in Surabaya have been covered so far,
benefitting a total population of about 1.4 million. About 180 community
health workers in Jakarta and 45 in Surabaya have been trained and are
working in the kampungs. Land acquisition problems still continue to cause
some delays in completing the requisite number of health facilities and the
Closing Date was recently extended.
Loan No. 1653   Third Urban Development:  $54 Million Loan of January 31,
1979: Effective Date: September 26, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31. 1983
The project provides basic infrastructural facilities including
roads, footpaths, water supply, and sanitation to impoverished, low-income
kampungs (neighborhoods) in the cities of Jakarta (750 ha), Surabaya (580 ha),
Ujung Pandang (375 ha), Semerang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha), benefitting
a total population of about 2.25 million. A comprehensive solid waste
management program is also included in Jakarta and Surabaya, together with a
drainage program in Surabaya. About 775 community health workers are to be
trained in the above two cities to work in the improved kampungs. The pro-
ject is at an early stage of implementation.
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049   Five Cities Water Supply:  $14.5 Million Loan
of October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is now
running 24 months behind schedule and the Closing Date has been extended by
eighteen months. All equipment supply and all major civil works contracts,
with the exception of pipe laying contracts (delayed because of slow
procurement of pipe), are under execution. A cost overrun of about 30%,



- 52 -                   ANNEX II
Page 25 of 25 pages
caused by increases in local costs due to project delays and devaluation, is
expected. The reorganization of the Directorate of Sanitary Engineering has
been completed, and the establishment and development of local water
enterprises is proceeding satisfactorily. Also, disbursements are expected to
accelerate now that contracts are signed and equipment and supplies are being
delivered.
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  $36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: February 29. 1980; Closin2 Date: December
31, 19M4
This loan has just been declared effective.



ANNEX III
Page 1
- 53 -
INDONESIA
THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 18 months
(b) Project preparation coordinated by: NFPCB
(c) First presented to the Bank: September 1978
(d) First mission to consider project: November 1978
(e) Departure of Appraisal Mission: November 1979
(f) Follow-up Appraisal: January 1980
(g) Completion of negotiations: May 2, 1980
(h) P.anned da e of effectiveness: September 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Plans for production of IEC materials to be submitted to the Bank
by the Government not later than December 31, 1980 (para. 51).
(b) Government to prepare a plan, not later than June 30, 1981, for
evaluating population education aspects of the project (para. 52).
(c) Government to ensure arrangements be made for monitoring vehicle
operation and maintenance (para. 53).
(d) By December 31, 1980, Government to have undertaken a review of pro-
gram and curriculum for TBA trainers, and submitted a copy to the
Bank for comment (para. 54).



ANNEX III
- 54 -                      Page 2
(e)  Government to prepare programs for (i) retraining of nurses
and midwives to become primary health nurses, and (ii) community
health training of nursing teachers; drafts of these programs to
be submitted to the Bank by December 31, 1980 for review
(para. 54).
(f)  With respect to the health center upgrading program, Government
to ensure that a full complement of staff is assigned to each
expanded health center as and when completed (para. 56).
(g)  By December 31, 1980, Government to establish Steering Group
to coordinate project implementation (para. 58).
(h)  All sites required for facilities to be constructed under the
project will be acquired according to an agreed timetable
(para. 59).
(i)  In a timely manner, Government to make adequate budgetary
provisions for all project expenditures for each fiscal year
(para. 62).
(j)  Audited project accounts to be submitted to the Bank no later
than six months after the end of each Government fiscal year
(para. 64).



o                     v                            o -g"P 
ni ~    ~     /'                    z:_Di                      -m          o   
1W                                                                                                   C P C@ 
PAU    NE                 GU fI    .                         - 



