Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11790-AR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ARGENTINA
MATERRAL AND CHILD HEALTH AMD NUTRITION PROJECT
JULY 14, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 11790 AR
Type: SAR
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Region Office
lTis document has a restricted distnbution and may be used by redpients only in the performance of
their offical dutes. Its contents may not otherise be disclosed without World Bank authoization



CURRENCY UNrr - PESO (AS)
EXCHANGE RATE
(as of March 15, 1993)
US$1.00 = A$1.00
F[SCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEtIGIIS AND MEASURES
The metric system has been used tbroughout the report.



FOR OICAL USE ONLY
GWSSARV OF ACRONYMS
APIS                  Snmia and Finac    niea    Subq
CDC                Chid Dvelomen Cetr
CNMN               Natioa Maternal ad Ch   Pmgia  (Compmmis
Nacional A  avr do la Madre y el Nd)
R40                Food nd Agticu
FSC                 Fde Sg Co_
GDP                Gws Domestc Pnduct ( do"  Infeino BEuo)
GNP                Guss National Product (Producto Nacidonal Bruto)
RS                 Federal Healt Secrsariat
IDB                Inter-Ameran Delpmett Bank
IND1C              Natonal Instit  of Stastcs and Census ([sdtuto
Nail de Es1ska y Cww)
MCH                Matrna and Child Ealth
MCEN               Maera and Child Healh and Nutiton Services
NW                 Municipal Eecuting Unit
MSAS               Miistryof Heakh and Socil Actio (M       ro de
Salud y Acci6n Social)
NGO                Non-Govemental O       n
PAHO/WHO           Pan A     n   eakh                   Health
BagsInsurance Fund
PAN                Naonal Food Piogmm (ln Nacional de
PCU                pruject Coriain Ui
PEU                pwincial Executing Unit
PMH                PQwinca Ministres of Heal
EMTS               P     t Ma      -nagmenfomao Subystem
OO                       z    for Economic Coopeqtion ad
Deveopen
OS                 Social Inme Funds (Obras Socales)
SAMCS              hged               s Pubic Health Ara Services
SDMIS              Service Delvery Montrn and Infrmation
Subsystem
SSAL               Social Sector Ma e          Thic  Ascstne lam
TPS                Ibhnical Pmjects Secetrat
UNDP               Unitd Nato  Development Pwgmmme
UNCEF              United Nations Ckild's Fbnd
i document has a rstd distibuton and may be used by  cipient only in the peromane
of thei offil dutis Its contents may not otherwi be dsclosed witout Wor D   authorizton.



ARGENTINA
M1ATERNAL AND CECLDPWALTH AND UTRITION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN AND P!ROJECT SUUAMARY  ................................ i
1.BACKGROUN   ............ 4.........  ..........  
A. Ilonoi Sefti g   .............................                                  1 
B. SocblConidon  . ..................... *... .........  }
C. Womeni Developmen   .................................   2
2. SECTORAL CONTEXT ...................................   3
A.  EqlXeat  and Nutdion Stas  ............................  3
B. 7h   ef   aeSyt   .........................I...... 0. S
C. HedthCan                  andFianciago  iSw            ..............................  7
D. EHealthCanRsucs andUtization ...................................  8
fI    a m  an"Ld Child Heah andNutM*k Serices and Pw            s  ........................... 11
P. PmshxilSerices andPedoranc   ................................... 12
3. SUbBlURY OF$EICTOR LESUES AND GOVER3eET STRATEGY  ................................. 13
A. issus ........................................................................ 13
B. 8oenW     utg   .................................................................. 14
C. Avaibbeand PbndResourcs forMat                 nd ChildHealh .................................... 16
4.   E XENAL ASSISTANCE FOR TBEESECTOR ...........  ...o ......................... 16
A. 8ar  Rol an   sdW              Satg  ............................................. 16
B. 7URoleo Odier Donor  .................... .......................    .... is
C. Lesn of E.....pe...e..ce...................................... 18
S. TEEP    ROECO..............C....T..  0.                                              20
A. Pqect Orgi   ...........................  ..   ..** *...............20
B. PfgojetObjcdvs,R       *     s6Sw  and Area  ........................................ 21
C.M NP"a Fas         of thePn-je  .............................................. 23
D. DeMilW PlqeDescdpdo  ................. 0... *.................. ...... 23
6. VS IMUTED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN  ......................................... 34
A.Coss .................................................... *34
D. Fhldng Phn  ....................................                 * .*..*..36
C. Reounn      C ss adk nbdy   .........................................  38
7. pRojECT BPpLEMENTAIION  ...............                          .      ............................ 38
A.it Oqnaknnyed Coordinton  ......................................... 38
B.PKeo ............................................ 
C.               ad Accountsds ................                                 ..,46
D.AxegAig ....



. Stus of PzgjectPouwa          .....       ............                   ...... . 47
F. Monhoigangd S%rvisin  ...........................  48
G. id-Te,nNReview  .................... . * ... . .. ..  49
B. Risks.               * *om   ntal. .pa  ...............   .......  . ........  . .o 49
9.A   Ih4aton Women  ................ .................... 549
n.         Pr: EJEct         AND P......      ..........................  42
A. BondsX ..................... ........... 49
D. RAie   ....................P....  SO
9.nex C: OrganREIzIoNaS.Cbarts . .   .. ..... .. .............. . ..... 5SO
Anex  : PSrojeco C land Pai tniias.........                 .......          ......  . S2
Anma B: PngeaCosts ..............................o  53
Annex C:          opzb ChuU ............................ S8
AnnexD: Sdpn-eo  Cycl    a lic4dd okn CdWda  ..... ....... o....... 60
A ex B  P               and Disb          Cycle        .     ..........          ....... . 65
Armex F: MonitoringIdit  ..                               .................... 66
Anmx G: SupevisionPlarn ......................... . ........... 78
AnmexH: Docunmesin Phoet's WodnFieandGb Q= Fie  ................ 80
MAP. IBRD # 24782
lis repot is based on th fndinp  of pawraisal and api  missions tat visied Argntn in
OctoberNovember 1992, and March 1993, rqpecbv. Msion membes ibludd Mi/Mm. JOsB
Adsu (Mission    aTnd Sr. Projet Officer, LA4HRA ; Patrio V. M(bc Heat Seia
and A na  Mission Coordinator, LA4WI; Fncic Mardon_e (Nutri  Seist, LAT             ; Juan
Giacoli (Public Healt Specst, Consan); Edmond Andrews  nformai  SYsms Specialit
Conua); Vita Didonet (Child Devdop t Specialst, Consant);  d Anit Au  (Opeaio
Assista  Consulta). Ms. Jewnif r Feande (Staff Milant, LA4WR) provided a      oms     in th
poducton of this report. Task _naor. Jose Ank= (A4H; DMsi  C . hif: an S*weie
(LA4R; Director Pg-eung Loh (LA4); Powr R1fr : Jane (bow (ASMI; SaHm Hab
(SA2P; ad Alan Brg (P DR). Mr. Wllim Mayvle (LA4DR) edotd th report



ARGENTINA
MATERNAL AND CIHD REALTH AND NPlITON ROJECT
LOAN ND !ROJECM SUMMARY
Borrower                Aitine Repubic
B _:                  Ptovince andMu b
Amount:                 US$100 million, eqivalet
T,nV:                   Repayment in 15 yeas, iluding a 5 year gmcr pedod, with
intrest at the   ks sandatd variable re.
Project Objecties:      Th prposed project would assist the Goverment in mwoving
the heat and natrXit  stu of poor mothes and chklden and
pCO  cn               can and devlpmn of £ p
wtin pag        d          s p                Ai,
Cordoba, Ente  RicO, dendoM Sana Fe, and nTcumn). Th
proect would also upport Goement effort to decetmlz
socia service    eat and financing fom the provinces to
the           . lbp. ewouldbetaretdtopromot
effcie nd sevmice qualiy improvements in exsig
maternal, child health, nurdon and eary childhood
develpmen progrmms. Th prjec would fnac, on the basis
of pmdefimd cdooda, hwegment and incremental operating
expe   a        with the defivyof maenl and chld
heath and ntiton, and early cildhood deveopme  savie.
proect Deepeio          Thepr           has tree4pr    comppl:
(a) Matna, Chld Heath, and Nutrllon: T  component
would reifore the caciy of mtrnal and child health and
nutrtion progmns to provide app ate and imely care to
lo come moes and chin, both on an ambulatory bads
and in matriy wards and neonatl units of local hopitals. To
ts end, the project would support the delivery of a page of
basic health and nutrion services that integmte healt
rom oo disease prevention, eady detection, and tratmet
inevntos



- j: -
promotim, disea  prevention, early detecton, and treatment
(b) EarlY Childhoaod Development Comnponent: The aim of
this component is to sport mental and socil development of
children between the ages of 2 and S years. To this end, the
prject would spport the progressive transformation Of
preschool feefig pmgms and idens into child
development centr  where services would be offered, incld
mnutrt, motivadonal actvities, and preschool education.
(c)   gttIoaoStromponent would eance
the long-term capcity of provinces and muni    for
plaing, mnaging, and implementig mothr and child-related
aces. Under this component the project woud finane
tning activities, information system, soomm,
tehnical assistance for  nizing school feeng programs,
and stdies. The project would also finance the preation of a
second opeato
Epcted Be:              The princpal benefit of the proposed pioject would be incased
access to health and eady child development servies for
motes and children di  in low-income pe-urban areas.
Project interventions would improve ift  and dil sudrval
and matmal heah, reduce the prvalence and severity of the
most common diseases, and promote the care of young chidrn,
ehasizing their physical, intellectual, and social development
The proect would also niie a process of manageial and
operationa imp   itvements in proviial and muncpa socia
programs for the deivery of MCHN and early childhood
development services. The involvement of pwvinces and
municpalties hr    teir subpjects would improve tei
ovea planning and ilemeion capac.
Ri  ad Sa -qbguad:    in geneal, provincial and munipal hea   adm        in
gna is weak, and this lits the poteta for  proving
and expanding services. However, the ptrect has a simplo
desig, and woud build on prvailng arrange  . Politica
comitent is strong both at the national and the local level,
and is likely to be suined, not only because MCHN is a
nadonal issue transcending poltical parties. The prject is
targeted on a hand of munici         in six prvines which
contn laWe nmb  of poor, bave fiscal and ad intive



- lii-
owetvs aod p                Bm  bm be ofndd and
di           kaddtn_nd Only   Zvortye
of.         at Ur_II  1          and  upeieltlto wotdd
pmmd   mdoWy in each provine, dIminshing fth tisk of
_otenb affetng the proect as a whole.
dt stnzta and norms would be used, and
nndgb bod nph d budea  coD_m   usm
techical ft   would be provided to             from
thefdetu and povincial levels. UNDP and local agencis
would pwveds             wpport, whle ohero
a_gcies would be   oved with  tining, montodg, and
community             Feibe Sguidine wouid permit
devloin sytem mow In e wit local conditons.



- iv -
Esdtnted Costa:                    Local       Fog    Tota % of d   e Cost
-~US$  mi, ----
Components
ProvI.   and MmialSu bpiojnb        116.8       6.3     123.1       82
Nalos Ntition SurW5                  5.6        0.0       5.6        4
Pipjoct Iact Evaluaon                1.9        0.0       1.9        1
S"tu, Avdie  d iS anr Ta  AmisTonA_  1.5        0.0       1.5        1
Social o         Cami                4.0        0.0       4.0        3
Insttdoma Dsvlmat                    4.0        0.0       4.0        3
PCU                                  10.3       0.1      10.4        7
TOTAL BASE COST'                   144.2        6.3     150.6      100
Phydel Co                            0.8        0.0       0.8
P&Gco Cm5-_a                         8.6        0.0       8.6
TOTAL lOJECT COST                   153.6       6.4     160.0
NANCING PLAN
source              Pftject Cost              Dudes      Toal         lent of Cost
Local   Form  Total    & TPXiS    Cost             Project   Toal
Bakn                96.0   4.0    100.0        0.0      100.0         65.0    62.S
PWrad l Gowvmmt    31.8   2.0       33.8       6.2       40.0         22.0    25.0
Pion                19.6   0.4      20.0       0.0       20.0         13.0    12.5
TOTAL              147.4    6.4    153.8 -    6.2       160.0         100.0   100.0
EAdmated BRDM                 FY4    FT"         FT%    F     FY      ms
Annual                        11.0   21.6   22.0   21.7    14.4    9.3
Comutiv                       11.0   32.6   54.6   76.3    90.7   100.0
Ecumic Rae of Returu Not applhbl
Pqty CdAqo:y PrSya of tWgct intervandons



ARGENTINA
MATERNAL AND CHLD HEALTH AND NITRMON PROJECT
BASIC DATA
Total Ana (Mil'o km2.)                                         2.8
sTal Plopuin M                                                32.3
" -uati  Densiy per Sq. Km.                                    11.0
iotal FEt7ty Rate                                              2.8
Crude Birth Rate                                              21.6
Crude Death Rate                                               7.9
Rate of Natual Inwrease                                         1.4
Lf Eectc at Birth (Years)
men                                                            67
women                                                          74
infant Mort   Rate                                            25.7
Matemal Mortali Rate                                           7.9
Urb~an Populaton as Percent
Of Total Popuation                                             87
Lieay Rate (Age 7 and Above)
Males(%)                                                      95.5
Femes(%)                                                      92.0
Priaqy School Emollment
Males (%)                                                    97.0
Females (%)                                                  95.0
Age Structre
0-14 (%)                                                     28.5
15-64                                                        61.5
Above 65                                                     10.0
Pouaon per Physia                                              425
Populon per Nurs                                              1,800
Curent Conutacepve Prvaence Rate (%)                            65
Per Capita Goss Natoval Product (US$)                        2,370



- VI -
DEITONS
Age:.pcc Moraiy             Deah res broken down for each age group
Rates                       popultion.
Aveage Len    of Stay       Number of hoil patient-dayslnumber of padt
admissioDs.
Avre Occuny                 Number of hospisl patient-dayslnumber of beds
Ralte                       mulpled by 365.
Child Death Rats            The nmber of deaths among chdren oe to four yea  of
age per 1,000 cidre in that age goup in a wive year.
Chronic Di e                Those inesses chaed by a long latency perod,
prolonged clinical course, and debiitatin m anis .
eTe percentap of mared  women in reProductive
Pvalnce                     ages who are reguy using a method of c   c    n
Crxde Bith Rte              Number of live births per year per 1,000 people.
Crude Death Raft            Number of deats per year per 1,000 peopk.
Dendency Rato               Poplfion 14 yean or under and 65 years or older as a
peroentag of the populao aged 15 to 64 years.
Incidence Rate              The number of persons cnt         a diseae as a proporion
of the population at risk, per unit of time usually expresed
per 1,000 pero.
infan Mortaiy Rae           Annual deOa of inant less than 1 year old per 1,000 live
births during the same year.
Lifo Expec                  Ihe number of yeas a newbom dcdld would
at Bihth                    live if subject to the age-spcif mortaity rues prevaiing
at time of birth
Maral Monty                 Number of materl deaths per 10,000 lve birth  aes 'm a
given year attribable to pegnancy, childbirth, or post-
pMim.
*Mrbit                       Disease and illnes in a poulation.



-vii- 
Mortality                    Death in a popuaton.
Prmvae  Rats                 Ihw number of persons having a patdcar dises at a
given point in time per populatio. Usuay expsed per
1,000 persons.
Rate of Naumi                Dfece betwee crdeb   and cn   death
Increase                     rates; usuay epessed as a pp      .
Rate of Popaon,              Rate of natua Ica ah usted for (net)
Growth                       migation, and expressed as a pentaep of the total
po;tion in a given year.
Total Fett Rate        l be averpge mmber of chaiden a woman will have if she
espdam a gen sat of age-specific ferity utet (ie.,
those then prevalig among women of toe ages)
her lifetime. Serv  as an esmate of the
muaer of children per iimily.



ARGENTINA
MAT:RNAL AND CMLJD HEALTH AND NUTRMON PROJECT
STA APPRAISL REPORT
1. BACLGROUN
A.  conomi Setng
1.1   Argna  wfuered a prologed period of economic decli  duing the
1970s and 1980g. Savigs and investment rates pbumeted in repon  to the
-astae eonmic dcimae. Capital fligt contbuted to worsening
and poverty. Mm cuncy was often devaed, and the rto
of public debt to GDP ro  to near 100 pecent. Chni public sctor
deicits Ate  nfaio and could not be controled by four major
StaimUonprgLs.
1.2   The present a          which took power in mid-1989, qukly
proceeded to address the m M oo  withs
succes. Maj  rform  Inlded drm"aaly reduing public deict,
pegging the peso to the US dollr, late scde pi    of publc
enerrie, and imprving reenue-sharing with te provinces. As a resul
of the  and other _meu, the combied public setor deficit 
lQ.Sp Prentof GDP in 1989 was eliminatd andrspacd In 1992 by a .6
percnt surplu. In 1991 and 1992, GDP grew on averg between 8 and 9
percet per annum.
B. Soda Cond_it
1.3   Economic conditions for the poor have impwved over the la tbr
yea. Ih elmination of theinflatlon ta  hbas beneited the poor more thn
other income grmups, open unmpo,n has drpped and rea wagos In
most sctors are higher than in the late 1980s. N, the dtatio  of
th poor in Argnina stil requi  more dirct aggresse acton by te
Govermt
1.4   The economic ciss of the last two decades had an unven Impact
among two diffen grou  of poor. Th estmated 2.2 mi adito
rual poor who live maiy in the nortbhe  a  northweste  pwvinces
mise, Cho, Pomoa, Juy, Sa   La Riqa San Juan, Santiago del
ho, Caamarca, and Tucumn) were paRy dshedd from the Ml
efecs of economic ersion by supporve family s,uctur, acoess to basc
staplews      sugb     agrlcnx   u, and pau-time   menL



-2-
However, the 7.5 million urban poor presen a moo dicult and uret
cha_en   to the Govenmt Ths group Includes nal mig s and the
ur  unployed, who live In the povert belts snu        la  and
medium-sized ubn aeas, such as Buenos Aires, Rosdo, Tucuman,
Cordoba, and Mendoza. Poverty among this gwup is me  markd t
aomog the ftrditonal mmrl poor in tems of relaive incomes, housin,
satay condions, and food itae. Wage eans aug this group have
edxprnced major setb  duog the 1980s:- first, toug fallin
incomes (ra Inome declined by more than 35 peroe), ad second,
though incasing   eployment (frm 4 prcent to mo¢e than 12 percent)
Nd u               (estmaed at 20 percet of o labor fce in Gteter
Buenos Aih  in 1989) caused by economic condioantd nir-to-u
miaon that mseled the ranik of job-seekrs.
1.5   Reduced public investme   in housing, wat supply, ad
worseed the plight of the poor in pei-urban aes. The 1980 Ceu
lassied almost 30 percent of housg uits as unsanitay or uns as. In
1989, it was beleved that shanties and temprar dwelling accounted for
most 50 percent of housing in the law  udn perpheres, a 50 pet
rase  sine 1980. Data fm  the 1980s indicate that 31 percent of the
popaon in lare udan areas did not have access to safe waer, and 45
percn did not have aces to sewage services.
C. Wm  In Dweopet
1.6   No reliable ses on the role of women have befn caded out In
Arentn  and chnging economic and soca coita   bave hidered the
idetifcation of a clear pa     of women's employmnt rats and relae
incomes, power  dationsin the f y, and outside Ini nc-
activtis  Over e Us two decades, however,aibl Infom    shows
that female nolmet in udaun primary and seconday edcton has
improved almost to the level of males. Over the same perd, wom's
participin  in paid  loymet ieased frm about 1S to 35 percet,
adho  theI employment of women b    w                     in low
ski, even mea,   jobs and on inform   actvt  gies  low bcomes.
As discussed below, and smilar to may other develoing cuntie,
matenal moralt  and morbidity remains a mjr  ue affectg women's
health (pai 2.7)



-3-
2. SECTYORAL CONTEXT
A. Population, Heath and Nutrito Status
2.1   Popuation. Argentina's total population, 32.3 mio in 1990, is
paqected to rise to 36.5 mMion by 2000. Popuati  density, at 11
inhabitas per square kilometer, is the third lowest in Latin America after
Bolivia (5) and Paraguay (7). Population per square kiome  of agiulud
land is a mere 16, the lowest for Latn America.   e popuon Is gwing
very dowly: the 1989 crue birth rate (CBR) and the cude death rate
(CDR) were, resp.-dvely, 21.6 and 7.9 per 1,000 population, bading to a
ntural popuaon incra  of 1.4 pent per yea (the tbird lowet in Latn
America behind Urugay, 0.5 percent, and Cuba, 0.7 pcet). If the
esen deog ic   dc             , the country would rach an annul
populaon growth rate of 1 percent by 2010. Mhe to  frtilty  e (TPC )
was 3.1 in 1965, 2.8 in 1989, and is projected to dece to 2.3 by 2000.
Th 1980 census showed that low and decining frility is associated with
urbanition: rual families had an aveage of 2.9 chidren as compared to
an average of 1.9 chldren for udran fmilies. nesi  p   t   £of
women in the labor force and female educaion, and use of contraceptives by
70 percwe of the uban populion contrbuteo oeduced feilty.
2.2  In 1989, life epctancy stood at 67 yeas for men and 74 years for
women, with wide disparite among provinces. Life ectn  was 7 years
above the avewa  for middle inm    dveMping couia. The poplatio
s aging as a reault of the sustained declie in the ferdily raft, and an
incrase in life expectancy. In 1989, a high 10 percent of the populto was
65 years and older, which was comparable to the rtio pvallg in
strial soees; the proportion over 6S is expected to Inra to 14
percent by 2010. The pwportin of the popuaton 15 years and youngr
contrce from 31 percet to 28 percent during the 1980s. While the
-pendency ratio is expected to dere  slightly (frm  about 66 in the mid-
1980s to 60 in 2000) becase of a declining birth rate, the dqgroup
wm inclutde a growing propotio of eldedy people who wM rei costly
medical care and social secuity benefits paid for by the shdinking p
of the employed.
2.3   The poplatin is overwhminfgy urb    By 1989, as a result of
lr  scale migration to cites in sach ofem     87 percen of the
popation  was estmatd to reside in ura cen   (up frm 76 percent in
1965 and 83 percent in 1984). More than 10 millio people or 30 percet of
the populaton live in the Greater Buenos Aires a.a



-4-
2.4   Health Stau. Argena shows two differ_nt epdemiological
profl  ofken coexstig in the same geograpbic areas: one, C ndg to
the profile of indstri count, with hIgh incidce of chmnic and
degenerative diseases, and the other, reftg conditions similar to those
prailn in developing counre, with high incidence of ifctou and
pasitic dseas. Due to rapid urbantion and induastraization, as well as
significant changes in lifestyles over the last tbhe decades, the  has been a
rapid ince  in the percentage of deat  due to cardiovas r dLseases,
cancer, and accides, wbich together account for about 70 percent of al
deaths. Th res are attrbutable to other chronc conditions such as diabetes
and crhosis, as well as infcous and parasitic diseases, nutitona
deiienies, peumonia and itfluenza, and meningitis.
2.5   Nutrion Status.   rlly, Argentina has been a leading
agil  procer and epoer, paarly of beef, wheat and soybeans.
As a resut it has been beter off than most other Lain Amedcan countries
in tns of aveg per capita avaiablit of caloies and proteins. In the
1980s, avenge caloric avaiabiity was 3,386 per day, higher than the FAO-
recmmended minimum daily cons on of 2,250 caloi. The per cait
daily ailabilit of proteins stood at 112 gam, well above tie minum
requirement of 54 grams.
2.6   The situation deterioed in the 1980s. Ih federal Miistry of
Health and Social Acdon (Mnistedo de Salad y AccI4  Socal, MAS)
estimated t by the mld-1980s, 30 peen of chldren under 5 years of age
were m      shed.Ahough this esdmate may be somewhat high, as an
average it reflects the nutria  problm fcig rurl areas of the nthe
provinces and pei-udan ara. In the absence of any recent survey of local
conditions, the nutitonal st    of poor chld  and mothers can only be
inferred from a few isola  studies. A household study in Buenos Aires
conducted in the mid-1980s found that among a sample of 485 childr  aged
2 yeas and less, 16 percent were      sha as measured by wei-for-
age. Height-for-age measient sowed that 24 pct of the childre
had signs of chronic mtin. In the early 1990s, a small sample srvey
of pregnant women in a poor area of the Buenos Are Province indicated
tht in the 1st and 2nd tdmesers of pregancy about 20 percent of women
were underweight; and at the 3rd trimester about 30 percent according to
weight/height crteria.
2.7   The Pfght of Poor Mothers and Cbildren  Mothers and childz.
have suffered the effects of the economic crisis more acutely than oth-
members of poor households. Frt, there is a close corrlton between
poverty and size of household: the most sgnficant variables associated with



-5 -
povty are the dependecy ratio and the umber of childen per household.
Housholds with unsatisfied baic needs contin on avage more than twie
as many childre as other houseolds. Second, unde me
dsproportionatel affects mothr, infan and children as a result of the
common practce of allocating most of the availabe food in the household to
the           and male adolescts. Tii inadequate access and low
qualiqt of basic health services specificaly affect mothers and children. The
high rates of preventable infant, chld, and maternal mortality are good
indicats of the high prevalenc of morbidity affecting fthos population
groups.
2.8   Argentina's Infat mortaity rate (DMR) of 25.7 per 1,000 live births
in 1989 was much higher than in neighboing Chle (16) or Costa Rica (17),
counries of simila socioeconomic profile, and thre times higher than in
industr  sociees. Moreover, there are major variats in the DM1R across
regions: IMR is between 1.1 and 1.3 times higher in the lare, poor, pefi-
rban areas than the naional aveme (see Technical Anmex A in the Project's
Working File). Three-fourts of the 11,000 neonatal deaths (the majority of
which were due to matemal uetii  and poor quality obstetic caue)
and 60 percent of the 6,300 post-neonatal deaths (most of wwich were due to
immuaopreventable and acute resiatory diseases), which were cnc d
among the poor, could have been prevented twough beter mtton and
opportune health care in   s. Simultnousy, the death rate for
childre 1-4 years (5 per 1,000) and the mabe  mortaliy rate (7.9 per
10,000) are too high for a country with Argentn's socioeconomic
. Child mortali patterns rflect the impact of the worsening
crisis. While child moryt   rtes slowly declined frm 1980
sugh 1985, they stalized or worsened in the following three years
vituy erywher in the counry. These treds hide worse condions
among the poor. For chldten aged 1-4 years, the most prevalt causes of
death other thn accdents and violence ae infectous and parsitc diseases,
luan and pneumonia, and nutrional ddiciencies, aU of which are
larely preventable. Pernatal and posa  cop ns ae the main
causes of matemal moly and morbidity; it is esmated that two thirds of
matel deaths (relatd to induced abortion, hemorrhage, and toXei) could
have been prvented by oppotune, good qualiy health care.
B. The Heslth Cue System
2.9   The health sector in Argentina is compleL It deveoped through
successive and often contradictory govenment policies and uncoordied
chnges of healt care providers and financial agencis. There is a
mutiplicity of health care provies: the federal Government, 24 provl



-6-
govements, hundreds of municipes, oc  scuty hospials, the armed
forces, prvate hospitals, and idep physici. Complex financial
chemes lhave also dev.loped. Third-party payers incde 336 social
insuranc fimds (obras sociale, OSs), more than a thousan muualities,
most of them small, commercial insurance companies, and pivate
foundatins.  As a result, the sector is an aggregat of many sub-sysm
wher providers and fnanciers intct to eat often overapping health
programs and coverage schemes.
2.10  The Public Sedor. In 1991, about 25 percet  of financing and 35
percent of coverage were provided by public services. The federl Ministry
of Health and Social Action (MSAS) is the main athrt in te country for
health and social programs. MSAS has been tzaditonally a weak ministry.
Partly to address this the govemment rcently restuctued it into six main
setriats: health, old age, project/technical coopeton,
oordiation/ami     ton, hsinsil  action, and generml (see Annex C,
Chart 1). Under the Bank-assisted SSMTAL piject, MSAS oaio
and management and budgetary improvemes are being intrduced. The
MSAS is entrusted by law with policy making, nornaive and rltory
authoriy. The Health Secretriat (HS) is responsible for coodinaing the
health sctor. The HS's authority exeds over matenal and child health and
nutrition, communicable diseases, sana, occonal medicine, the
quality of healh care, and food and dnrg rg on.
2.11  In the federl stuture of Goverment, the Prvincial Ministies of
Health have full opeaional          . Accdingly, each of the 24
pronces 1has its own health care system. The operational caacity of the
provinces varies grely (see Technical Anex B in the Project's Woing
File). While stronger provinces such as Buenos Aires, Santa Fe, and
Mendoza have more efficient minitries and competent staff, some of the
smaller provinces require significant suppot from the MSAS. Provinces are
responsible for opeting cuative flties,  plemeing preventive and
public health programs, and enforcing reguato. Provinci facities
consttute the backbone of the public health sysoem. In 1990, their system
comprised 897 hospits with more than 67,000 beds wich accouted for
more tban 33 percent of all admissions in the country. Ding this period
1,738 private clinics (with 47,000 beds) acunted for 44 percent of hospital
admission, and 2,615 health cenrs and disensaies (which received 21
million outatiet visits) represned 28 percet of all ambulatory care in te
country. Some of the  r  munipal  (Bu           Aires, Cordoba, Rosario)
opeae szeable health senvce networks, comparble to those of a province.
The scope, quality and size of these delivery stems vay acording to the



7 -
eaonoic and polIc  sregth of the provinces and the extet to which
people ane coered by health isurance.
2.12  Belt nsurce. In 1991, the OSs provided 60 percent of tota
bealt ce financing and 55 percent of coverage. This sbsector is an
a_gregIte of many heath insunce schemes rather than an integmted system.
As early as 1910, labor unions began to offer medical care plans to their
membuEs. Bach lurge buiess bad its own union, and most unions
estbished  ir own OS. Membership in an OS becme compulsory in
1970, and coveage was extended to the employee's family. Besdes
contractg  with the public or private sector for services, OS also woperate
their own facilities (apm ly 30 OSs operate a total of 260 oupadt
clics, and 114 hospitals with more than 8,000 beds, accounting for about
15 percent of total ougiet visits and 6 percent of total hospital
admissions). In addition to the OSs, some 1,000 non-profit muhtaitis
(mutuas) offer het  care plans fimded by individ  contributions.
2.13  Pvate Sector. In 1991, the private sector was estimated to pwvide
8 percent of total heat financing and 10 prcent of covreage (to those who
a  affiiates of commercial health insurance plans and/or who can pay out-
of-pockt for sevic  rendered). This subsector consists of fincal
ine         and providers of health care, though some insttutins perform
both functo. Finacial              includ commeacil companies and
inancal*- groups. They offer a vaiety of comprehensive health cam plans on
a prepaid bas. They also supplement other forms of coverage to pay for
deductil, co-payme, or aditonal benefs. Most private insurers are
small, hower, and have not yet reached a level of performance comparble
to that of lr  heal insuance companies in other countis. Prvate
physicin attend patns who belong to OSs or pepaid hfalt
o rganzations. it is estimated that the vast majority of physicians are in part-
time pvae practice. Physician are organized in influential provincial and
na l asociatons.
C. Health Care   ps! and Thaaudng of Services
2.14  Argent's health expenditm share, about 7.1 perct of GDP in the
lat 1980s, is as high as in many lower-income OECD coutes (7-8
pcent). Tota heath care spending in the early 1990s is about US$7.5
bilion; per capita exp iu is appt ximately US$234 with wide variatio
among ocioecnic    s. Fedeal and provincial W    and other
govenIm  revue  alocated to health care account for 2.1 percent of GDP
ao 30 perceat of total heat expendues. Social insance tuxes amount to
2.6 percent of GDP or 37 percent of expendiues. Finally, household



-8-
payments, either diect (overwhebmingly for drug pases) or thugh
private health insurance, account for another 2.4 percent of GDP or 33
percet of healt exqpendKiture.
2.15  The bu  of prvate cae fincing, outside of drug pubhases is
provided by OS. Each OS is mainly finced by payroll axes. A tax of 9
percent (3 pOis  deducted from th employee's salary packet, and 6 pois
added to the employer's wage bill) is levied at the. source, and paid to the
employee's OS. Consequently, bigh slry sectors canffod adequate heath
pla, wbile low salary sectors can offer only limited benefits. Some OSs
are laWe   t   with mre thian one milon afflas, while oths cover
ody a few thusand members. Of the eisting 336 OSs, 291 are federally
coodinated and legally able to operate in more than oe province, while an
additonl 45 emoll the public employees of provincs, muni,  and
the federa Judciay, Congress, and Armed Forces (prvincial genents
bave powers to regulae oly povincial and municipal employee OSs). The
5 larger OSs account for nearly half of the total membership in the OS
system; the laWer 15 account for over 90 peen  The rapid growth of the
private sector was financed by a rapidly expanding OS system. Private
hospitals expanded and bought more equipment, especialy advanced
tehnology, as they entered into contacts with the OSs, which provided a
sable market and a guarateed source of income. A recent Pridential
Decree gnt  the insured the freedom to choose their OS regar(lessof
place of employment is bound to lead to major consolidati  of health
m          agencies.
2.16 About 95 percent of public health care fiancing is provided by
provincial  ven . MSAS's role is lmited to funding a few high
prority pgrams, such as food sue     tal and imm
Pwvinial govemM  finance health expenditures by (i) collecting taxes on
assets and economic tansactions; and (ii) through automatic Federal
Govenment tansfrs. Tansfes are channeled twough rvenue sharng of
taxes collected by the Federl Govenment and discretionary gant.
Provincial revenue sources are tas  on  al estae, value added  es, and
icenses. Provinces, in turn, share their revenues with municipal
D. Health Care Resurce and Utilztion
2.17  Healt care has detrioraed over tTe last two decades. Funing for
health services has also decrsed. In the public sector, the progressively
lar  demand for heal services runs cumnter to dmiished volume and
qualy in sector facilities. The health sector's share of dinishing public



-9 -
nding      from 5.5 pecet in 1978 to about 2 percn  during the second
balf of th 1980s. By 1990, the publc she of total sector financing is
estimaed to have decreased further by 20 percen. Social Securt financing
hs aLso decreased as a result of bigher unloyment and lower payroll tax
coletons.
2.18  Public services are generally ovetburdened. As a resultof the
contactio of the formal sector of the economy, a lare number of the
prvuy insured have bad to seek care in public facies. Prom 1987 to
1991, the share of the populaon served by the public sector Is esmated to
have increased from 30 percent to 35 percent, and per capita exp ies n
1991 for this gmup amounted to ondy US$108 equivalent.
2.19  Provincidal and municipal public services are pooly eqpped to
handle the volume of demand. The lack of piortis, cleway defined and
d  e g sdards, incentves, and                      affect most
proincial servies. The public health network, both ouatient andinatiet
ciitie, pwvides vAiyg degree of access and quality: while servces are
better i the richest provinces (Buenos Airs, Cordoba, Medoz and
Neuquen), they are indequate in the poor provinces of h north and
notwst.
2.20  Imbalanced an poody tained and  ilized heath peonnel are major
case of idency. First, physician ovesafg is gealized. In 1987,
Argentina had 78,000 pracdiing pbysicians or one physician per 425 people,
twice the level        d for cout with similar sooec        and
health conditions. A majority of physicians hold sevral jobs while
unemployment and undeplomt a n on the rise. Staff salaries consume
on averg more    four-fifths of provincial operaing resourcs, leaving
other (and essential) opeqt   inpu bereft of financg. Low saries and
poor incentives and morale, which in tn limit cacity and lower sevice
quality, are the direct consequence of physician ovsaffig. During the laS
decade, the quality of taining of medcal s8tents has sufrd fom larger
numbers of enans to medical schwols and more limied fndig.
2.21  Second, nwsing is neglected. In 1987, the phYsiannure  atio was
4.4/1 or eacly the opposite of cost- ent health personnl use. Nurig
traing is not practically oriented: the lmited on-thewjob expedence is
concentrae to the hospital setting. Similafly health techidans are not
traed with adequate equipment and lack expos   to wil nm operations.
2.22  Hospital managementf    from low pririty and prige. Most
spital manges ate physicians who do not have either the vocation or



- 10-
tiing reqired for their mgement jobs and who additionaly  e poody
paid (in 1991, local hotal managers' monthly salries avead US$400).
2.23  Effective hospital capacity is limited by opetg weak s In
1987, provincial hoits (wbich account for roughly one third of
admisio) and municipl hosptls (accounting for an addtoal 10 peren
of caacity in the larger mcipalities) had a nominl capai of one acute
hospital bed per 250 taret popWulation (similr to contons in Sweden).
However, in 1987, about one fourth of acute cae beds was not
because beds were either dilapidated or lad th required suppt  services,
such as maineance, dgs, and otber operating inputs. In spite of a 12-day
aveuge length of stay (which is twice as high as would bexpected for a
counuty of Argentia's healh profile), the balace of  q l beds
showed a low 60 percenav geccncy rate, as compard to 8S'90
percent in more efficient systems, due to poor man nt and limitd
ang -.
2.24  Outatin hospital capty is also beig ieficety use  as
evdenced by slow prcessing of paients and long waiing lists. Lack of
ambulatory resoces          y increase hoI         and costs. Te
lk of a basic healh can model, low priority m budget allocations, and
poor incenives diminish the role of ambulatoty care.
2.25  Ph        ls. The overpesription of drugs rles     anoher
source of waste. In 1989, Argentineans spent an inotdinate US$56 per capt
(mosly out-of-pocket) or about 30 percent of health care financing on drugs,
as compared to 12 percent in the United States and other industrhl societies.
A law is beiug discussed at present to gant patent pwoe   to
pI           products. Ths measure may likely inae  the cost of band
name dugs. Under recent legiation, pries have been deregulated and
imorts lberlzed, and genec drugs ane being promoted in some provines
in efforts to lower drug expendi. Further effos are plnned to edwe
unwanted compin of drg by emphasizing tighter control of
phycian pcins and over the counter drug purchases. ,
2.26  High  Teho. Daring the 1980s, unteguated  colog use,
together with greater competton for paients among ptivate clinics, led to
laW  purchases of advanced  e     ipment. For example, in 1988 fth
proption of CAT scanners in the Buenos Aires metolan ama was On
per 5,000 populaon, fr exceeding the recomme  noms in Industial
sociedes. Mhe deteioratng fnanc:ial codition of pdvate clinics (due to
reduced soc  insuvance financing) bas acted as a brake on high tecology
Purases.



- 11 -
2.27 The bmpact .f Poor Health Services on Mothers and Children.
Poor mothers and infts suffer the effects of Iiited sevice delvey in two
ways. First, at the ambulaty kve, by not having accss to heath
promotion and disase prevendon intrven. To illustte, in the 1980s,
the percentge of Infant fully immunizd before 1 year of age was low:
agnst diphtha, whooping coug and tes, 62 percent; tuberculosis, 61
perent, and measles, 60 pcet. Low ates of Immunization lead to the
spread of commdicable       and contrud to iat motality. In
aditin to nial imn           campaigns, mote permanent and better
coordinated delivery systems are needed to reach and maintin high
immunization lvels. Lack of knowledge about rehydration therapies
precude saving  e lives of infants and chilcrenm with severe dirrhea.
Secondly, poor snitay and supply condaiom  in hospital mateity wards
lead to unnecessary deh among mothes with pregnancy and delivery
complications, and among underwei  babies.
E. Matrnal and Child Health and Nutrition Services and Programs
2.28 Health Progmns Oriented to Poor Mothers and Children. During
the 1980s, primary health care programs were ostensibly given the highest
prioty at the fed, provinia and municipal levels. However, there is
little    e  spport for pAMny healh we. Health education on topics
such as controlof smoling and alobol        ,diet,          use
Of p     _       and env      i hazard is virtually tnoestent.
Immunizat,human  o            (cluding birth spacing, abortion and
tee    pregnancy), pr-and post-nat care, control of diaioea and acute
repiratory   i;  control of merging diseases, which prtilarly affect
poor mothers and clildremn, have been reively neglected.
2.29 At the national level, prmary health financing is wasted due to lack
of well artculted operatnl progms. At the provincial and municipal
lvels, health posts, health ces   and the outpatient departments of public
hospils, which should lead in developing prmary healh care, have no
specif p           or budgary provision for this ptupose. Urgent
demands prevail, whiclh fct a lack of leadershlp and incentives among
administrator and staff to develop health prmotion and disease prevention,
outreach sevices to grops at 4k, and public healh campaigs.
2.30  The results of the 1984 National Inst  of Statscs and Census
(Insiut Nacional de Esadidi  y Censo, INDEC) study of poverty gave
rise to the National Food Prgram (Plan Naciona d, PAN),
first as an emergency measure, and later as a penent instrument for
addrssing the nutiion needs of the poor. The PAN, and its successor, the



. 12 .
Bono Solidario progam, evenully channld  about US$200 mMl'n
ammaly to local authoies for purchasing and distibuting famy-e
pacaes of basic food  lem . However, program weaknse have
negated most of the potntial benefts, as follows: (a) poor Wget  and
poitizaon led to canelng sizable amounts of food to middl Inco
grps and te poltialy wel connected; (b) poor    m         d  i
large scale loss, pilferage, and theft; (c) lack of iteg-ation pdwithpimary care
servi£es transfomed the programs into income trasfer mechanisms, instead
of iuwmets to redress Dalnutition; and (d) the lack of benchma survepys
and monioring and evaluation fostered poor ac     and have hinderd
overall ex-post assesment of outcome.
2.31  Food  lemeon prcams bave been dc             d and
incrpredinto large provincia and municpa welfare programs withiout
the benefit of policy reimproved orgization and mageme
and    ination with health sees. It is imperative to gan corol of
these funds, define their healt/n     objives and htnsfer their
management to healt cta and other agencies c".ged with this
. Preschool Services and Proranc
2.32  There is a wide gap in sicesforr    ole. Childre up to 2
year of age have access to heath care sevices for their health and nutrition
needs. School children aged 6 and above ar provided with suppley
fe      through school luch prgrams. Those in between, preschooles
aged 2 to 5 years, have no formal sot  sstem.
2.33  In 1990, it was esdmated that pr-school-age children with unsatsed
basic needs (relaed to housing, bygie, access to safe water, and health
care) numbered about 1.5 million. Of thes, about one-third were receiving
nutition supplementation and haphard healt care tough pwvindal and
municipal }iergartens, mothes clubs, and other public and private
channels. Even this lmited assa    was nt well planed or supervised.
The widely diffeng oanization    ngemets and jisict
responsble for this age group in  ovics and m ania, togeher with
small private sector p  t      der fts to rtonaize and exp
sevc. Additionally, virtually no preschoolers from poor famies receive
psycho-social simuaion, iis maks entry in schools more diffict and
incrases the rates of repettion and dropouts.



- 13 -
3. SUMMARY OF SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMN
STRATEGY
A. bsues
3.1 Health Care and Nutrition. Te main obstacles to sector
dwelopment include: (a) the lack of support for baic heakh care oriented to
disease preendon, bealft promotion and simpl  ca    inteveos;
(b) inppropriate resoure allocation; (c) poor and vaing opeang
sandards and incentves; and (d) the absence of a demand-driven mechanism
to enhance consmer power and competon.
3.2   Basic heah care, the base of the heah car pyramid, suffers from
lack of coherent and sained leadership, blurred  gammatic identity and
insigcant resource allocato. Nuiion acdvities sffer from poor
tgeting and lack of teaton  with health care. Special challenges are the
wdely vaying   ue o local health problems which require local souons;
the total trnsfer of social sector re s, powers and resowurces to the
provinces; and the much weaker municipal capabilities (outside t  larget
cies) which make provincial a         the major instrument for
RefoIm. MSAS suport is required for settng national priorities and
minimum stdards to enhae equity and effidency, as well as for prviding
overall oversigt and perfomance evuation. Under the SSMTAL, several
analyses are being cared out to imp!ve MSAS's organizaton and
management.
3.3   The lessom of past expience ud        the lack of consisenty
srg prvincial government politcal commitmen and financial support
DuTring the 1980s, a number of inovative  peimet were canied out at
the loal and prvinl level, but failed to eicit major refonn becuse of
the lack of broader poltcal consensus and sustained support. An example is
the cpitaon-based healt inace proposal made by the reres' i ae
entity (PAM), which was tried out in the povinces of La Rioia, San Luis
and Formosa, but was undermined by the oppion of OSs. negrated,
autnomous public health area sevices (SAI4CS) intoduced in Misiones
evenay faied for lack of poliical suot for the tansfer of
responibiitis and porers from the prvince to the het areas, as well as
by inadequate finacing.
3.4   More recny, major steps taken at the prvinc  level are laying the
bases for fthe i   tonal and policy refm. Ihe pvins of Mendoza
and Neuquen have opeati        healt development plas. Neuquen,
Jujuy, Salta and Mendoa ar reondening resource towards basic health care.



- 14 -
Effors to reorganize hopitl car by blvs of cwoplexity are under way in
Cordoba, 8Woe, and IntroRi. Capitaton eystems, ae being ntodncd
in Mendoza and Tocuman. SVal provincial fculties    of medicie ae
vlewlng media tining t   ricul and defing ways in which entry cod
be egulatd in line with heith needs.
3.5   The ovarching goal of health policy should be the m vent Of
h        sttu, wihn the edstnfg fnanci consftints, through better tgein
and mo¢e ei     resource use. A fit step would be to develop a broad
conseas on a few key nationa progrmmatic prrities and opeaonl
guin  and thento st a process of change based on t  connsu with
politil backing, ful pvider pa       and appropriate budgetary and
ather resouce allocations in seected pwvinces and munlitis.
3.6  In the short run, the highest prority on grounds of equity and
defficiy is to adds the health and nutitonl needs of poor mothers and
children   his shoud be done by prgressvely improving the ecency and
effectivess of maternal and child care services. A successful, expanded
matemal md child care progam would open the way for reforms at higher,
more co     leves of care and in enire provincial healftf care sysems.
3.7  In the log nm, priot also has to be given to develop cost-efectve
r4proadhes to adult care. The prevalence of chrnic and degnenative
diseases assocated with the aging of the popuon and the reaivdy higher
cost of interventions rated to uoe groups of diseases justify giving aduk
halth cae a higer bog term piority. Impotant elements of te satgy
would be: impwving lifestyles; a larger role for ambultory care and the
fi  level of  It; rguled competition among pwviders; pooling
of public and inance funding; and improved incentives, tn ency and
3.8     eler Devlopment. The isse is how to provide effoctively
more ce   health care, mttion and child developmenta t
to presools under widely varying pwvincia and municia aneet
The prefable approach would define a ful package of   tervnn, and
develop ths irventn alog with eistmg services, squoted by staff
incentves, and the picIpatin of mothrs.
B. Govermets Strate
3.9   A  mber of steps being tae show Govement oitmet to
reform.  irst, a draft OS law, currnly under dicssiin Congress,
would (a) give priority to financing a basic health care package of



-15-
intevetos; (b) esablish cost paraneters; and (d) intoduce a national
modnioing process to measure provider performance.
3.10  Second, the tansfer of the maining naional hospitals to the
IcI ts  and provinces was completed in 1992 though the Budget law.
Today, provinces and a few large munices have full opemional and
iancasp            for heat cae delivery.
3.11  hIrd, nw drug regulaion       opened the way for competition and
freed prices to move based on demand and upply conditions.
3.12  Foth, the analydcal base is being establshed for fue sector
reorms. With SSMTAL financing and technical assistance, studies are being
caried out in the following high priority areas: (a) rs   of the
MSAS; (b) manpower use; (c) developig altnative provical o n
and management models; (d) improving quality control of dnrgs and
foodstufs; (e) reidoing healt prmodon and diea  preventon across a
broad spectrum of interventions; and (f) estblishing a natonl health
mana        infor  n system.
3.13  The Govenment condrs urban health care development the highes
prioritY. First, laer concentions of the poor, combned with easier
physical aces  would permit greater impact of Govemment prgams in
urban are. For example, about 1.5 million failmies or 5 mrHon poor
people ie in 20-odd urban centes. Of these, about one hal or 2.5 milon
(1.2 milion of whom are mothrs and children) are con ed in three
metopolitan areas: Buenos Aires, Rosario, and Tucuman. Second, urban
healhc   services have larger initial impl ng aacity and financing
thn their rurl cou ats.
3.14  Governmet's sategy is geared to intrducing, first, a basic health
care package of semrves for mothers and children; rapidly i ing the
volume and quity of sevices in the areas with the lrgt concentraion of
the pow;  g        the       tn  of non-govmental o      ion,
such as the Chuch, UNICEF and local asscaton; and providing fedeal
fincing on a grant basis for developing MCHN progms.
3.15  The NaInad Matend and Child Heah Program. Recent
de      nts are opeing the way for deining policy opons and plans. In
July, 1991 te President of the Republc made a persond commiment to
materal and child health and nri mprovement. At the same tme, the
MSAS itoduced the National Mateal and Child Program (Compromise
Na_oIl A Favor de Ia Madre y d Nio, CNMN). The CNMNs broad



-16-
objectve for this decade are to define and integrate MCH seni  in
ambuloy and hospital health care, emphasize health promotion and disease
pvention and promote the parcipaton of famie and community growups.
3.16 The CNMN recommends actions aimed at: irmproving awarnss
among poliymakr and the genea public; stgtheing fede, provincial
and  nci        commitment, and orienting manpower traiing and
oiployment towards matemal and child health and nutrition; and Ipwving
monitoring and evaluation capacity.
3.17  The CNMN provides a national political and progmmic phlaorm
for deining and ealizig policies geed to develop integred
maternal and child health care and nutrition. However, the CNMN does not
Inch e ommend    on how to improve the desg and delivery of
evies. The next step is the opeationaliztion of the CNMM at the
povincial and local level.
C. Available and Planned Resources for Matenal and Child Hlealth
3.18 The most important federal source of financing for developing MCH
svices is the MSAS's MCEHN budget. In 1992, MCEIN funds amounted to
US$133 million and included US$35 mmion for financing provincial milk
purcaes; and US$15 mil1ion for drug purchases. The balance of US$83
milion was used for miscellaneous expendithres.  is fund, alhough an
impot       ersion of federl government support for MCHN, is a weak
lnstment for major impovement, since it lack prios, intratin with
ongoing ad projected provincial plans, and ac ity. The 1993
allocation was increased to US$150 mlion, and is intended to provide
couterp  funding for more comprehensive future progmms, secflcally
the under the projecL
4. EMXTRNAL ASSISTANCE FOR THE SECTOR
A. Bank's Role and Assistance Strate
4.1   The Bank has been a strong suorter of the ambitious Argentn
rfmo  program. The Bank has asssted Govenment's efforts to stbiz the
economy, libealize tade, samline fedel and provincial
and pdvatize income-producing enterises. Thwghout this period the Bank
has emphasized the importance of complementawry investment focused on
*        revtalizing social seices.



-17-
4.2   Fmm 1985 to 1989, the Blank laid the pam ic basis for plying
a major social stor delopment role by caring out major stdi of
poverty (Social Sectors in Crisis); population, health and nutrition
(Populaton, Health and Nutrtion Sector Review); and educain  (Education
Sector Review). Ts was folowed by the ongoig US$45 miimo Socia
Sector Manament Technical Assisance Progam (SSMTAL, Loan 2984-
AR) encompassng nine sectors and agencies. The recently concluded mid-
tem project pe ace review showed that te proect is weeting and even
exeeding i a number of areas (abor, social secmity, social sector
expditu) its policy development and  nltunng goals. From 1990 to
1992, in the field of heath, the Proguam provided the analytical basis for
p    ing the draft health insuc   law and will develp, over the ast two
and a half yea  of implen (1993 and 1994), in-depth stude as a
basis for: (a) legislation to turn public hospitals into autonmous e ;
(b) health manpower development (c) legislon freen drug impots and
marketing while allowing the sale of generic drugs; and (d) food and drug
4.3  In October 1990, and a the request of the th  Fedead Secrar of
Health, IBRD and IDB developed a joint health sector strtegy prl
aimed at reforming health care provision and fiancing at the provincial
levd, niio   c       tin, and the introducion of perfor     uad
outcome indicats and uniform traparency and accounabilt stanrds.
The document was widely discssed in Argentina and helped promote key
eIements of a possible nationl health care development famework
4.4  In accordane with the Governmen's decision to trfer to the
provines the  ns           for social services delivery, the Baks Country
Assance Strategy for Aren supports improving provincia ad
muniipal heal services. Beginning with the proposed MCHN Project to
help the provinces p e better health and nutiion assit    to poor
mothrs and hldren (see pan. 5.2-5.5), Bank assistc would trget
vuleable groups in the uran poverty bets and the u ndedevloped nohem
pwsvinc, in close       ion with provisncial Uwthonities, while continuing
with a parallel process of polcy and insuional reom at the nadonal and
loca levels. The MCHN project would be followed by more compr
regi  projects, beginning with the Greater Buenos Aires region (wbere the
lawgest conen   n of poor exis), and later by sim   projects in the poor
Northwest and Nothan provinc. It is expected that the proposed projcts
would facilitate the inalization of health car delivery and flnancg.
TsM strategy is suppored by ongoing public sector improvements in
organization, m_naement, aid finance being intoduced under the Provdxin
Developet Proect (Lo  3280-AR).



- 18-
B. The Role of Other Dow J
4.5   The role of exemal agecies in the social sects has been imited in
the absence of an agreed framework for social sector dv   and a
polcy agenda. Uuil reenty, lited eogition of te           of
poverty hndered giving  gbg pnority to socal iss.       negect was
relnfoed in recent years by the urgency of addresing the crtical
mac_-economic and institudonal problem  boseing th conty.
4.6   As a resut, ex al agency programs ave of Hmited scope. The
United Nations Development Program (UNDP) and the Pan Amercan Heald
Organizin (PAHO/WHO) have been long imvolved n technical asnce
programs to the public sector at the federa lvel, as wefl as in providig
administive  support to  -     c  projects. Th  iter Amcan
Development Bank (1DB) is statg to implem    a healt proct with two
main components: the buidn of four provincial hospis and tecal
assistane. UIJCEF is helping develop       e  suot services
(iclding logistics and staff tainig fbr pwvinidal and municipal
governmens and NGOs. The Italisn and Spah govements have lare
and sti u          bilateral nes of credit for geal puposes, icldfi
the builn and equipping of hotals.
C. Lasons of E     qrn
4.7   Since the proposed prqect would irpsent the frs free-stanig
health and nutrition operation in Arentna, the rview of £eraen  coveed
24   k-financed hath projects, as wel as 16 ntition prject in th form
of SARs, PCRs and audit reports. The SSMTAL'A  
experience was also taken into accun
4.8   Factors which have affected health and nutriio ptoject
implemento  are the following:
(a) Borrower cmmitment as manifesd by degre of support for poliy
reorienta , sti-Vti_nal improvements, and budget allocato;
(b) ddschm    for project preparation and Iniplementaion
contribe to the acanc   on th part of peonnel at the differen
levels of the health system of impding semic rforms in the
sector, and to the trining of local staff on resoumre aloton
decisions and the  b  e  pt pocesses needed to
implement loca subproJects;



-19-
(c) the scale of project goals, usually lied to the dee of compxIty
of project desg (especially relvant in the case of ual areas, which
have very low absoptive  paciy) ofte leadng to lack of focus and
slow progress; problems are aggvated by coflicting goals;
(d) the choice of organization and   nstucture: in balncing the
advantages and disadvantages of usig eaxsg strctr  or new
pre       d o unts to manage prjec, expedence indictes
that prvided legal and araveato  p                 sufficdint
management autonomy and flexibty,          g adsting ageieS
is the prefered optio to maximiwe political and  91fm
commitment, instiol development, and smooth  erations,
(e) community involvement: the needs and priotes   potenta sevce
use  must be tk  into account in project desg and
implementatn; community particiation is essenial forImproving
Legtimate sevce demand, pate  fow up, outrach series, cost
recovery, and field monoring;
(O) png, progammg, , budgetng and cash rlase mecnims must
be relively simple, tanparent and easy to use;
(g) civil sevice or other relations must be flexie enough to permit
itoduing maaeet and staff icenie ted to pr i,
quty and       ; these incentves ar more difficult to provide for
physiian as compared to alied pwfessI  staff and outeach
agents; and for ruora areas as opposed to urban cens;   enation
icentives must be replcable to enir classes of staff, such as those
associated with basic health care, to ensure acceptbilY;
() thoough monitoring and evaluadton, beging with base    surveys
from the begianing of imple   an,    essenti to d   oetne
adequacy of process, output and impact; they require
com_itment from the start;
(i) project desi  must be feimble enough to        adviable
chag  in scope, trget popation, procedue and componen; this
is partcully true for fit opeons in the country and for projects
with a naional coverage; mid-term revim  with boad agendas ar
particully helpful   ¢ordenng pr4ects when suppog  proacdwv
suevsion;



-20-
() regar    nution introns, a number of fctors were
paicularly helpful for succes   imp  tion and impac: (i) close
ntgrato with basic heath services, which  quires rig
awareness of health peonel; (i) tl;ting adequae enough not to
miss larg mbers of the needy and to avoid wast, while not
excessively fhneumed to lead to ad i ve gddlock, or to exclude
prevention; (ii) stog emhasis on nutrton education,
which has proven by itself capable of improving nauiton stas, and
on growth monitoring with sg matea involvement; (iv)
provision of spplenl foods which closely match ordinary diet of
the poor, which cover mothers as well as children, and which promote
demand for the entire packge of healt services; (v) extensive use of
media campaigns; and (vi) includon of m ent suplemeio
4.9   The SSMTAL mid-tam pro ce rview has povidod vauable
ssons of expedence in the social secton in AgntinL  The most imortat
concem the need for government ownership; few, focused obtecves; carefl
as  f tass, implemeAIon                     and capaies; and
imroement as opposed to radical change.
S. THE PROJECT
A. Project Orign
5.1   Te  propo    project was identifd in mid-1990 as an emergeny
ion to alleviate the effects on the poor of the Germent's aus y
progm. Prject preparaton, however, dd not progress becase the
Govaement's initial emphasis focussed on resolvin criea economic issues
facing the country (which postponed acdon on the social frn) and the weak
I       e      and operinal capacity of social sctor agencies. As the
pedod of emegency was superseded by the rsmpin  of economic growth,
the project proposal was reoiented to isfy the unmet heat  and nutrition
needs of mothers and childn, as well as to promote early childood
development at the provincial and munici  levels. In August, 1991, the
MSAS reested UMCEP assitance to parep the prqject A team
organed, recruited, and managed by UMCEF, in comsultation with the
MSAS and the Bank, prpard the project proposal doing the December
1991-December 1992 period with SSMTAL financiAg. The Bank made two
preParation visits, one in July, 1992, and another in October/November,
1992. Appraial took place in March 1993. Negoations took place in
Washio, D.C. on June 8-10, 1993.



-21 -
B. Project Objectives, Rasdona  StrateU and Area
5.2   Project Objectives. The proosed project constitutes the first stage
of the Govements National MCEN Progmam, wbich has wide public
suppor and the personal  mmime  f the Preident of tie Republic. Tbe
project s desgned to asst the Govenmet in Impoving th bath and
nutritional status of poor mothers and children (as defined by Census data
and periodic household surveys) and promoting compr  care and
development of preschoolers in p ating pv       and muni s
across the county. The project would also supo the Govenment's
ongoing effos to decentalze socal service m      and fiancing,
taldng it one step frther from the provinces to the ms. Ihe
proect would be carully targeted, and would promozt efficiency and
sevice qualW improvemens  estg maternal and child health and
nurition, and early childhood development progams. More specifically, it
would:
(a) sengthen maternal and child health and nutrition, as well as child
deveopment proms by supportng the delivery of basic bealth and
nutrition and early childhood development service packages orented
to health promoion, disea prvention, simple cuative care, and
psycho-social and ineectual chld developent;
(b) improve the oranization and management of public institutions and
communiy or ations involved in the delivery of maternal and
child health and non, as wel as early childhood development
progams; and
(c) support the decent li  of decisons and mamet by
ddelting to parang provinces and municipalites the analysis of
needs, as wel as tie p mming and utili       of financing for
strengthening maternal and child health and nutrition, and ealy
chldhood development progams in their respective jursdictions.
5.3   Rationale for Bank Involvement. The proposed project, the Bank's
first free-standing ivestment lending oation in the heath and nutdtion,
and eady childhood development sectors in Argentin, is in line with the
Govermen's and the Bank's stategy of worting human resource
develpment and poverty alviatin in the couy by improving the delve
of so8idal srVcs (see pam. 4.4). The project would inie a process of
expanded cover  and efficiency improvements in the delvery Of social
services which are at the core of the Govament's follow-p strategy to
clement ongoing economic and public sector rdorm programs. The



-22-
proect would enable the Govement to ntegmte, further develop, and
repcate on a wider scale locl ittves, ncdng  NGOs and community
partcipatio, wbich have attained limited succes In the past becas of lack
of political support and resources.
5.4   Project Stratea. Owing to th wie variety of local conditions the
project is designed to provide maimum operating flexibility. the project
would permit adapting basic services to local conditions, while promoting
expermentation, feeack, and application of the lessomns leared. Tageting
would enhance impact at the lowest cost. Within each partitg p ce,
municipal subprojects would be ipend over a thre-year period phased
over the project's six-year life.
5.5   Project Areas. The proposed proect would opete at two levels.
First, investments for basic health and nutrition servce, including child
delivery in maternty wards of local hospitals, and preschool development
centers would be made n selected low-income munc es. At the
instit   l level, tchnical assistance for the pepon and implementtion
of provincal and municipal subprojects to be pwvided though the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU), m  _t and te l taining, stgt
of infomation systems, eduamtion, information and communication stratees,
and sudies would beneft the overl pwvinc  health cae systems. Studies
and pilot experimts wod help dewlop knowle  and opdons, and test
aterave policies, orapnizaio modalities, and incentive sysems. Up to 16
mucipaliies in 6 provinces (Buenos Aires, Cordoba, ntre Rios, Mendoza,
Santa Fe, and Tucuman) would participate in the project on the basis of
pedefined selection criteria (see pax. 7.9 and Annex C). The average
municipal subproject size would be about US$16 million. Funds not used by
executing municis would be transferred to otber m  lites in the
pariciatig provinces. The first three pwvincal investment prposals
(comprising a taget poaion of about 160,000 mothers and children under
the age of 6 years, or almost 6 percent of the estmated total of poor moths
and chi      under the age of 6 years in urban areas of the country) have
been selected and are in differn stages of proceing their subproject
proposa's (paa. 7.26). The esmaed total beneficiary population -low-
income mothers and children under the age of 6 years in the six proinces of
the project- is aximately 500,000, or 20 percent of the esmated total of
poor mothers and children under the age of 6 years in urban areas of the
country. A second project might be prepared in 1994 depending on project
perforance and additional demand by provics (see parn. 5.39).



-23-
C. Man Featur  of the Project
5.6   The proposed proect would pave the way for stablishing pimaly
hedth care as tie main prioriy of the publc health sector In Arentina
begng  with mothe and cidrn, and for urnng adsting infant feedng
ceate  into cmprehensiVe chi deveopment sorvices. The project would
be orented to healt promoton and dise   preventon, Inclig outeach
actvities geared to early detcdon and trtment of groups at risk, as well as
eauly chilhood development. The family would be the basic uni to be
taged to enhance the impact of muftay riforcing hea   ntrtion, and
ducation interveons on the overa saus of individiad membeas.
5.7   The prect would coist of te  components. Tbe first is a
materPal ad lchid health and nutrton component that would stengtha
the oraa    and resouce use for delivering a packge of basic health and
nutrton services argeted on mothers and chidre. The second, an eary
ildhood develomt component, wou  support the ins         on  f
a new model Of  eense physical, mental, and socidal development of
prschoolers. The third component, aimed at  tinal s,
would spo the       vement of pla g and mme  acity O
sices and the development of more ratonal policies reled to mothers
ad cildre 5
D. Detaed Project Description
1: Maternl and Cid Healt and Nutrition (see Techil
Annes Cl and C2 In the Project's Working Mile).
5.8   The bsc pacwk   of services (Anes Cl and C2 in the Prqject's
Workig Pile) consists of: (a) wom's reproductive and cild health care;
) food supplemeion for undernoudshed pregnt women and childrean
under 6 yeas of age, as well as for lactg mothers; and (c) health and
nutrto educaon and prmoin  MThe project would finance, as neeqssay,
the expasion, refiing, equipping or eeipping of existing health
f ties, birig addiional staff to complmet existing health and
teams when saff rdeploymen is nOt feasible, purhasn
geic dpugs included in a basic drug list and other medical swpplies, and
puhasing food splements. Funds would also be alocatd for stff
suervi, maintenance, and health and nt    educatin and promotion,
inudng conmmunityr paricpaton
5.9   The women's reproducthealth care program would concentre
on: pre-nat contls, incuding nutition surveillae of pregan women



-24-
ad detectdi of possible gestadon and delivery complications, tetnus
vaccintion,             child delivery, and post-partum care;
bteastfeeding promodon; family planning; conol of sexually transmitted
diseass; ad cervical cancer screenng. The dcld health care prosrm
wold help reduce cldld mortality and morbiaity tbrough actions such as
infat care, growth monitoring, bresd   promotion, vacinai  aainst
measles, diphtheria, pertssis, and polo, oral rehydaio terapy, preventon
and eauiy tratment of gastroinestna and acute resp y diseases, as well
as ijury control and teatment
5.10  Thesupp       a  feeding prom would reforce the impact of
health-reed interveons on the twin problems of poor healfth and
malnutiti  among children under six yean of age and pregant and
lactang mothers. This program would be a key instrument for attmg the
population to preventive services and attempt to rehabilitate malnoed
children and mothers. Tarting of curntly malnourished individuals with a
specialyreinforced food  lemeon scheme would be done thrwgh a
welldened progam to monitor weight changes during pregancy and
childhood in local health facilities (see Technical Annex C2 in the Project's
Woring File). In addition, breast-feeding psctc  would be monitored to
alcate food supplements to lactatng women. Growth mitoring norms of
the Argetne Pediatrics Society would be used to detect malnutriton among
children  cner 6 years of age, and the Rosso-Madones nomi would be used
to identify malnutition among pregnant women. Estimated underweight
pevalence ;n pregant women (weight/height) and chden (weight/age) Is
on average about 20 percent. Once ideifed, tgeted individuals woud
receive food supplements and nuition education; upon recovery fwom
Ianui  beneficiaries would be phased out of the food suplemention
progr  based on health personnel evaluations. Appropriate basfeedig
pacc  woud be rewarded by delivering sl      tary food. Reding
mic         upplementtion, malnouhd inns under one year of age
would receive an iron-fortified milk formula; other micronutuents up to RDA
would be also considered (Ca, Zn, and vitamins A, C, and D). Iln addcidon,
iron and vtmin C tablets woud be disibuted to all prgna  women. Food
supplmenan, inluding micronu-, would be provided to project
beneficaie at local health facilits according to a progmmd schedule of
healt checkups. The mix of food produt to be disud under the food
suppent     progam is based on a baaned contribution of nutriens,
which is in line with the country's nutidonal habits. It woud not affect
negatively b ding duon because the food products to be distuted
in the first six months post-partum would only be deliveted to curenty
lcang women. In additon, tb- composition and cost of the food pkages



-25 -
was defined to tale into account intra-family redisibution of food sffs, and
the fincial ustinability of the tawgeted food supplementtion program.
S.11  The heal  and nutriion education and promoton program would
provide Information, cadon, and  mm     on about prenal care,
brfeedig and infant feeding, dietay qualiy, hygiene, fmUily plag,
seually tansmined diseases, environmental health risk, and injury
prevention. The objective of this progrm would be to improve healh and
nutritional pracices among the general populon, particuy changing
behaviors, and to prevent the onset of illness and disea. To this end, the
prect would support traiing for health pasonel so that ey dissemate
effectively heath and nutrion messages, and the development of hath and
utdtion-related messages and materials, inchluing mass media campaigns
(see paras. 5.285.30).
5.12  OrgnIon of the Deivery of MCEN Package. The basic
packag of maen-a and cbild health anc nutrition services would be
delivered through an improved network of axsting health centes and
maternity wards of local hospitls. In those areas where exstng hospitals
are handlng over 10,000 deliveries per year, a figure well above
internata standards, additional maternity wards would be establshed in
the faciities currendly without them in order to relieve cogestion in the
main hspital. Typicaly, the basic package of MCHN services would be
offered in health centers covering on avepage between 5,000 and 10,000
resdents, and in maternity wards of hospitals atendig on average between
2,000 and 5,000 child deliveries per year. The project would promote the
establishment of a referral system based on local heakh service
wihin well-defined geographic ars. To help ope lke the referal
process and ensure condnuity of care at the local level, te use of two new
insrments would be promoted: the first, a peinatal cae card (carn6
perhnata), for pmmin regular check-ups and viss to health faci
on the bads of detected hea  and nutitional needs of prat women; and
the second, a heakh card (cam6 de salud), for moniong heath and
nutrition saus of childen under 6 years of age, and p aming a schedule
of visits to health facilities. Under this system health cears would become
the entry point to the local MCHN service delivery network by providing
pro-natal care to pren t women, and would rer patens to hospitals witb
bsr  and neonatal units for child delivery. After delivery, motes and
children would be referred back to the health center where they would
receive post-pattum care and nutrition education and prmoton, partculary
for improving breast-feeding and infant feeding praces, and periodic
growth monitoing check-ups and vaccinations, respectively. Health
personnel would also undertak outreach activities (e.g., home visits would



-26-
be conducted to det  those project bfaling to attend their
sded  visits to health fcildties and motivate them to do so). Local health
service a-rangements and thoeation of Iefrals woud vaty according to
popuation distributio and is cha s , rritodal bounes, and
ecisting access to health fcilis, incuding their number and the complexty
of services offered.
5.13   mprovement of Health Service Network. The project would
addre  the physi, technological, and optionl dedcncies plguing
Argentine MCHN service delivery. In each province/municipality, the
project wold spo the e      tatIon and pgrading of exsting health
faces over a three year period. Investments would be made to cover the
gaps idntified by needs assessments (which would be icuded in the
provincial/municipal investent requests) based on the IequirIments of the
new MCHN modeL Priority would be given to imroe hea  f         and
to cover the populton in under-served communities. Efforts would inlude
physical plant and equipment upgading, imprving staff mix, taining for
exsting and new staff, and s  ng p      mming, montoring,
spevsion, suply, and ma nce. Te refenal network would be
estabshed based on sd ed norms and procedures; anual plans would
be prpred; social comction acves would be initiated to inform
locacommunite about project objectives and start-up activities and to enlt
ii            n; and ep  ologil and srvie daft would be collected
and anyzed by provws and prvincal/municipal health authodi-e. ITe
delivery of health and nutrition intvenions included in the basic MCHN
packae would begn during the first year of subproject impleIn. 
the second year, intrsectoral lnka  would be promoted, pardcury wih
preschool progams and community o ins. Community outach
adviis would be initiab d, incudg heakh andn   on educaion and
promoto; prommic and patio al a4ustments In the model would be
made according to e logica and health service data colected in each
jursdicton during the first year of subprqject im pl
Component 2: Early Childhood Development Componet (see Techcl
Annm D in the Project's Working U.).
5.14  Differet county experies bave donsted that early c
devopment progms, together with health and nution services, posively
hfluece children's development and readie  for school, as weR as their
scholastic performance. The aim of this component would be to: (a) support
the gowth and devdopment of childen between the ages of 2 and 5 years;
() promote com ehi   care, and reorgnize esting progm; and



-27-
(c) facihtate the incorpomdon of women into the labor market by providing
child care. Feedig progams for chldten (comedores Infanties) and
ndergarts into child developmett centers (CDCs) will improve nutrition
and psychosocial stt in succemive stages. CDCs would follow a service
schedule of up to 12 bours divided into two shifts of sixhours each, with a
maxdmum capacity of 100 chidren per shft. The CDCs schedule may be
exnded for children with woing mothers. Care for these children would
be provided by mothers in the cmmunity under the supervision of CDC
staff.
S.15  TrAing would be provided for staff in the management and
implementation of social progams and for teachers and mothers in charge of
the centers in the subsve aspects of the program, so that teachers develop
eardy childhood educato acdvities and mothers may take on the functions of
commuit educational promoter. Education materals and toys would be
rocued, and equipent wod be prvded for impoving cooking, food
distribution, and educational services as needed. ITe above activities would
be financed by the prqject except meals, which would continue to be financed
under exst  federal and prvincal a ents.
5.16  Active family and commufity paicipation would be promoted to
spport CDCs' activiies Voluteer mothers engaged in the implmentation
of daffy activiies would compie the CDCs' core support group (grupo
promotor inial), which would be respible for basic management tasks.
A second group comprised of parets and nighbors would be established to
spport the work of volntee mothers. Additionally, to mobilize support of
the communky at lawe, a m emt group (comte de gestin) comprised
of CDCs' staff and rprseivs of NGOs and local governments would be
created.
5.17 Fiancing would be available to pay volunteer mothers who care for
the children; it would be adminierd by groups of parents and neighbors.
Small financial contreiutions from parents as well from public sector and
community insitions would be collected.
5.18  Iniis prry would be given to languae development, later
incorporng psychosocial development. Teachers, provided by provini
and muniipal sources and taied according to agreed workshops (see Anne
El), wtould be placed in preschool feeding centrs, where no educational
activites are carried out at preseu  Provinces and muniplties would
finance teacher salaries. CDC teachers would provide in-service tring for
mothers and undertakes the initial work of motvating the child.
Educatinal acthivties developed by professional educaton staff would be



-28-
incorporaed gradually. n addition, education tehndians (one for every 10
CDCs) would be provided by mu   ties to swppot implm   ptato of
program activities. Ihe CDCs wou'I also have community educadon
coordinat  and promoters, who would be selected among the mothes who
work in te centers.
5.19  The CDCs would opeate i cordintion with health centers. To
enter a CDC, each child must have a health cad issued by the health center.
Grwth moniting would be done each semester by local healft center staff
Malnourished dan sick chidren detected at the CDCs would be referWed to
healt faties, and heat and nutrition educatn actvit  would be
orazed. Outreach actividtes to households and the commus would be
canried out to strgten the linges wi famies  d counities
patlaldy for the  gemen and operaon of the CDCs. Tiis is a key
feature of the CDCs that would help suain the progrms.
Component 3: Inst l Strengtheng (soe Techical Annxes El, EZ:,
E3. E4 In the Project's Working e).
5.20 This component would enhance long-term capacity for ptanning,
managi, and implementing mother and chld-rlated activies under five
major subcomponents: (a) trning; (b) infmadon sstms; (c) social
communication; (d) tecbncal assistance for reognizing school feeding
(comedor  escolao ) programs; and (e) studies, includng the pxp=tion
of a second project.
5.21  Trainn (see Tecical Annex El in the ProJect's Workng Ell).
The objectives are to improve eficency and quality of sevice delivery.
Health and nutrition personnel, ki n  teahe, and mothers who work
in prschool centers would be Involved. Most of these are the lowest paid
public sera, have no ientives, and have seen a mard deterortionin
their woking conditions. In parcular, the moters who work in preschool
centers do so volunty, and in most cases, povide serves iregary and
without a    ty. The sipecif goals under this sbcompt ae to:
(i) upgrade the knowledge and dklls of healtih and utrition personnel, both
dinisttve and technical; (H) improve teching capabsii of prschool
personnel and of mothe who work in CDCs; (ih) improve efficieny and
eficacy, with special emphais on pOg g, ma, and
monhoring of project activities across the board; and (iv) improv
interectom d coordon of heal, nutrition, and education services.
5.22  Trining would be canied out through courses, seminars, and
workshps. Trining would involve: (i actviies aimed at ensung



-29-
adequate prqearon and start-up of proect activities; (ii) management
acdvites to reinforce the adm ve capacity of personnel involved in th
project; and (O) in-service traing for providing knowledge and kms
needed for Vpacific tak. PCU staff would train the taners. In the
workshops the tak are to defne agreement, coordinate acon, and
evalue the Imleme    of project activities. In courses and seminars
ndes and procedures would be defined or reviewed, and knowledge updated.
Basic audiovisual equipment would be provied, and documeon cenuts
would be egthened.
5.23   Iformation System (see Techdical Annex E2 In the Projects
Workig fle). An hitegted project informaton system (SIP) would be
established at the naional, provincial, and servce delvery unit levels. The
basic SIP would inchlde tre  substems: () adminisve and finace; (u)
project m  ent; and (iii) srice delivery monioring. At the national
level sytem resonsibilities would inclhde nonnative, technical assistance,
and Ihmited development funcdons (e.g.), dvelopment of data entry modules
for the monoring subsystem to be istalled in seice poder unis). At
the provincial level, responsibilities would emphasize development,
operton, and thnical assisUce functons.
5.24  The adminIstrative and finance information subsystm (AFIS)
would be developed to SUpPOrt the accountig, finance, and budgeig
functions of the project. Adminive procedure mamnals have been
developed for each of these functions detailing the methods and reqirements
for managing the projects funds at the nadonal, pwvinial and service
delivery levels. The APIS would provide information with which the projet
budgets can be efectively programmed in terms of project componet,
function, source of funds, and budget lne Items witmin the aPProPnate
aotted tme periods. At the national level, the AFIS would suot project
funding approval, diusement and expend , monitoring and evaluaton.
At the provincial level, the APIS would supt the same funcdons as at the
natonal level, but with less emphasis in evaluatn and more emphais on
detailed accouting and monioring of specific exdures. The APIS would
be compatible with the monitoring infmati  subsystem. The project
would requr computer equipment for the development and opaion of
accounting, budget, personnel, inventory and other computerized modules at
the naional lvel. At the provincia l, automation of these modules
would depend on the specific r  s   identified in each of the provincial
prposals. At both the provincial and nadol levels, the AIS would
support the preparton of a series of reporu based on key indicators (e.g.,
stas of accounts, proammed budget line item disurements, purchases
made, contra   xecuted, inventory sta, peronnllpayoll data).



-30-
5.25  The project me  InOrmatiOn subsytem (PMIS) would
assist in the  p   g, paning, and       eet of project actvites.
At the naional leve, the emphasi woud be on ovea project anagemen
assessment At the proviil level the emphasis would be on project
aexetin, permance and prductivity assessment. Integrting the results
of inmation developed by both the monitoring and the adminive and
finanice subsystems into execudve summay indicators (denominated "tablero
de comando onrgnizaclon') would be a major goal. Tcking overall project
progress would be developed using standard methods such as GANTT charts,
project management software packges, and custom-tailored tools that allow
monitoring o activity/task   once, implemen delays, expenditue
problems, and other botlenecks. Evaling  oect   mance and impact,
plus speci stud  woud be cried out sepatey based in part on th
oupus from the PMIS and the SIP.
5.26  The seric. delvery monorg subsstm (SDMIS) would tack
Implementatn of proect activi   and programs. This subsystem would
resoure ut in, process pefo       e, and outcome indicatos
for each component, differentiating between those that corresond to each of
the decision-making and opeion levls. The informaton that is to be
colected would not burden xcessively health  ciities and CDCs personneL
Th monitoring subsystem woldd be flexible enough to accommodate the
diferences between the exist  data prceig  systms in the pwrvinces.
The SDMIS would be organized according to the requiement of the dfferet
operatia level. The managers of the SIP at the naiona and provinca
levels would have the  on li  for managing the monitg  subsystem.
Implemeing fthe SDMIS would require woing closely with the provinces
to prevent incompat   of monitoring inforation betwee and across the
diffn opaid  lovels. At the naional levl, the emphasis would be on
mont    the overall progress of pect implementaion  inthe p   ,
and ensurig adequate moniodng capabies of provinces and sevice
delivery units. At twe provda level, monit0rig resonsibilities would
empsiz progres evalon. At the municipal service delivery level,
monitorig would be pefomed by staff at each heath fil.
5.27  Techical assistance would be pwvided for the design, development,
implemenion, and maitnane of the SIP. Computer hardware and
sofware would compment avaible equipment; staff traning; and the
hirg of tec    l peonnel for data collectio and pcessng. Upon
complet  of the system, the data prceing centers would be
nehonected for the distribtion and srig   of monitoig data Computer
system conslants would be hired to assist in procu , provide  cnical
supr in  e iacqusion prmcess, in equipme  intalation, and software



-31-
development. The project would try to ene effective access to technical
ass_stac by computer users for opeaton and mainteace. Individual
consultants, maIntenanct and tecical assistance coacts witi vendors,
and/or   l     ning of peonnel would be financed.
5.28  Socdal C     n    i (see Technial Anex E3 In the Proje's
Working File). The objectives are to: (i) create an awareness of social
priores that ge tes commitment and soidar  so as to fostr the
development of prqject acdviies; (ii) promote the various progams involved;
(iii) develop a network of alliances among istions, servie pvider, and
the community; and (lv) disseminate information about project objectives and
5.29  The education, infomation, and  cation acvities to be
spported under the project would vary accorig to the geogmaphical and
social chaI ccs of picping provinces and municipalties. These
activities would be diected to three groups: (i) leades; (i) se
providers; and (ih) beneciaries.
5.30 The project would allocate resoures for hiring public relations firns
to produce the mateias needed, both graphics and audiovisuals. Radio,
telvisin, newswpers and magzines, public thoroges, and public
trsportation  media would be used.
5.31  Technical Asistance for Reonng School Feeding Programs
(see Tedial Annex E4 In the Project's Working FSle). Reshaping and
better tageting school feeding progms would be promoted because of their
lre size. These programs are financed by the provicial governments, and
in 1992 spent US$170 mMion in food purchases alone.
5.32  Provinca   tipon under the project would requr a commitment
to rgnize the school feeding progrms. The project would fiane
techoal assistance for           man     ement, dmiron of
kitchen and cateia servic, ad design and suervisio of diets and
menus. Nutrtional tetng instruments would be developed. The main
objetiedve of this subcompont is to improve the overall efficiency and
efetivenes  of the school feeding programs to free up resources that the
prvins can redect to other soc  pros, while also imoving its
efecdvens.
5.33  Stude. The poject would sot pol;cy and lst o   chags
in the long-mn for the deliver of MCHN and eady childhood devepment
services by fincng   dies on prioity i . The stdies suboomponent



-32 -
consists of: (i) three nation-wide studies to be a ed direcdy by PCU
staff: a national nutrition survey, evaluation of natonal food spplemen
program, and the project impact evaluation study (see Action Plan, Annex
A); and (ii) short-term stuies on issues related to the organizaton nd
managemnAt of MAIN services and early childhood development progrms
to be inlded in the provincial investment subproject proposals.
5.34  Natona Nutrition Survey (see Technical Annex Fl In the Project's
Working ile). Due to the scant information available on nutritional status,
a National Nutriton Survey would be undertaken under the project. Te
prposed smvey would be a basic step needed to pe , for the frs dme in
Argenn, a national food and numtrition policy. The survey would
concentrate on mothers and children under six years of age. In addition to
the usual nutriona status measurements, the survey would consider .
colleion of other variables (socio-economic, cultual, access to health and
uition services, brafeing prctices, preschool care, and
enviromental. The foRowing aspects would be studied through the
measurement of biological indicators in the matemn  and child populon:
an      _t  (weight and height, and probably skinfolds thickness),
hematology (study of iron, folic acid and Vitamin B12 deficient anaemia),
Vtamin A deficits (serum retinol), Vitamins B1, B2, and possly B6
deicits, deficit of other minerals (Ca, I), and paraitology (probably only
ough efaces examinin). Regarding the rprsetveness of the
samples where the above mentioned biological vaiables would be studied,
two types of designs are considered. Only antrpometry would be sudied
when using samples with provincial representativeness. In those samples,
divided in sub-samples aimed to include the poor (population with unmet
basic needs) and non- poor groups, the folowing additional ables would
be stued at the family level: socio-economic, environmentl, frequent
ilnesses, access to health servies (including immunizats and prental care
coverage), and parcipation in preschool programs. Representve sub-
samples of nine regions of the country would be drawn, also with due
consideraton to poor and non poor groups. In those famile, studies of the
diet (through a 24 hour recall survey), breastfeeding habits. miruient
through biochemical determinations and possibly pasitology tbrough faeces
examinaion would be caied out. The survey would be conducted dring
the first three years of project implme ton. Initial survey proposal is in
the project files.
5.35 Ipact Evaluation Studies (see Technical Annex F2 In the
Project's Working fle). The impact of health and nutrition interventions
offered under the project would be evaluated using a before-after design.
This design was proposed because altenaive experimental designs are not



-33 -
adequate for drawing conclusions about the impact of project intenons
because etbical consideions prohibit leaving a randomly assigned control
group without access to project interventions. On the other hand, the
epeted diversity of poor groups and the various interventions that can be
underaken simultaneously in the country do not permit defiidon of a truly
compamble control group as with a quasi-experimental design. Ipact
aluadon of project activties, therefore, must allow for all other possible
known influences that can affect project outcomes. As a rsult, a ter1cal
model of posible outside influences would be constncted to identify glevan
independet variables. Multivariate techniques woud be used to adjust for
the efects of independent variables 4hat may vary by year of compason.
Baseline data would be collected during the first year of the project for the
evaluadon of imact. These data would later be compared with thse of the
intervention period during the third year of project implementat0n. Daft
would be obined from two sources: (i) household surveys; and
(ii) infonnation gathered at health facgiies and CDCs. The latter is part of
the monoring system that surveys health and nutrition indiators and
actvides as a regular activity of the health personnel.
5.36 To assess the impact of early childhood interventions supported under
the project, an evaluadon would be undertaken of processes and resuls at the
prticptin-g CDCs. Monitoring would be performed every sx monts
project completion. The impact on the development of cidren
ateding the CDCs would be evaluated two years after the progrm is
initted and cildren's perfonnance would be evallated at the end of the
first and second gade of prmy   school. The evaluation would focus on
measures such as school repetition rates, drop-out rates, and overall
scholastic perfomance. Cohorts of children would be selected beforehand
and would constute a reprsentative sample of programs at diffrent levels
of develoment within a variety of insttutional conteXt. Iitial impact
evluatdon proposals are in the project files.
5.37  Evalaion of National Food Supplementation Progm  (se
Tehnical Annex F3 il the Project's Working ml.). The objective of the
stdy would be to evaluate ong     programs and recommend refom  in a
sample of       tin provinces. The study would assess possible
improvements in the progam's targedng, product mix, service delvery,
management, and proement methods. It would idefy legl, shtuctural,
organiztional, and adminis ve mocaons, as well as resouies needed
to implement proposed reforms. Tbe terms of reference for this study would
be discussed during appaisal. The study is expected to be completed by the
proect's mid-term review.



-34-
5.38  Other Studies. The project would also finance short-tam stdies
focusing on issues related to the organizaton and delivery of MCHN ad
early childhood development servces at the pvincal vel. Specific ae
of study in each of these topics would be fombulaed by participAtin
prvinces and munipaes   oding to their svide        y needs with
the goal of futher impving the rgtion, m gemet, delvery, and
financing of the above menioned services.
5.39 Technical AssistanceiTftparation of a Seond Project. Ihe
project's completion date would be June 30, 1999. Duing
technical assistance would be provided to provinces not partcipating in the
project to help them prepare subprojects for inclusion under a poile second
MCHN project, and, more generaly, to help address key elements of
improved resource use in the MCEHN area. Prelminary  emts indicae
tht a second project might amount to US$150 milion equivalent, and would
incude additional municities in the six provinces already pa tipa in
the first project, as well as oher provinces that comply with the agreed
provincial participation criteria.
6. ESTINATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Costs
6.1   The total cost of te project is esmated at US$160 million, with a
foreign exchange component estmatd at US$6.4 mMion, or 4 percent of
total project cost. Project costs by component are ummized below in
Table 6.1. Deailed costs are available only for the PCU, the nation
studi, and the frst subproject to be  pin the Florencio Varea
Muncipality of the province of Buenos Aires, which were evalated by the
PCU and the Bank at the time of appraisal (see Annex B). Over 80 percent
of total project costs would be allocaed to subpres.
6.2   The cost of civil works was estmated globally on the basis of health
faces'   bilitation needs and uni costs takn from stdies made by the
PCU and eia_tes from Florencio Varela subproject. Equipment and
matials costs were estimated on the basis of unit costs per healt cenr,
and an estmated  nber of heat cen    per 1,000          in
metropoltan areas. Esimates for technical atace are based on markt
rates for loc ' and  ional consu. Training, salas, t vel
allowances, and other operating costs are based on averages for a sample of
potenay patici g jrisdions.



-35-
Tab 6.1: ARGENTNA- MCDIN HROJEC
Etmated Preet Costs
(US$ '000)
Local    Prg            Tol   S Fo*n  % of
Exhag   Bao .
PNo l and Muica Subpwjeft
1Forno Varda                               5,117        219        5,336          4     4
Fuu Sprqjeos                             111,704      6,050      117,7S4          S    78
SbtDtAl                                   116,821      69          123,091         5    82
Natel Nuion Suvqw                           5,630          0        5,630          0      4
P9ujc Ic Evaluaton                          1,930          0         1,930         C      1
Skim and Autng                              1,487          0         1,487         0      1
_o___Comm _n       ___do __C____    _        4,000         0         4,000          0     3
T*ecL Aseo oe for Inb  Dewalop.             4,000          0        4,000          0      3
PCUaI                                              _         _  __=
Peao ni                                    8,825          0        8,825          0     6
Teuoul A____u                      _        650           0          650          0     0
T_  wand PurdeM                              S14 I        0          514          0     0
Conapus. Equipmet and Software                0          7____        73        100     0
Office Ma_tra  NW Savie                     359           0          359          0     0
SubtA                                      10,347         73        10,420         1      7
TOTAL BASE COST                           144,215      6,342       150,557         4   100
Physicaouugmaia                               838         13  _5                          I
PNic   C                                   8,583          9        8,592                 6
TOTAL PROJECT COST                        153,635      6,365       160,000
a/ PM  Staff would perfom  varo   tasks (1 meOf ovem. pojec
III   it i dDn; (iQ prov ision of wbdcd aulam  In th p Fpato  and
imiet-entain of provinci  and municia s roets; (ii) review and
evabation of p incia and mu ipa subpoctp                  s; and
(v) met  of n                dationa  tudu ds and  c s.
6.3    Con gc  Albowance. Prvision for price and physcal
conti - i bnce has bee  lmited to the istitutonal component, which consists



-36-
of discte elemeats and for Florenco Varela subpoject components. Local
cost price coningencies are based on an annual infl  rte cf 12 percent
for the 1993-98 period.
6.4   Duties and Tax1. Locly procured and importd goods necessary
for the project are exempt from the valueadded tax (i.e., to the extnt that
public initudions patcipating in the project are the final consumers, a
on of the full amount of the tax is not possible) and the customs
tax. Taxes as ted with personnel income are equivalent to 33 percent of
gross sabries and amount to about US$6 mmin.
B. Thuandng Pan
6.5   Ie Bank loan of US$100 milion would fia  65 percent of the
total project cost net of duties and taxes (see Table 6.2). The Goverment of
Argentn would fiance US$40 million which rprsents 25 percent of the
total cost of the project inchdag taxes and duties. The pwvindd ad
municipal governments' total oibutions to the proect would amount to
about US$20 millio. Both die Bans and the Fedad Goverment's
contributns would be tansferred to the pa  g provinces as grants.
6.6   The project would provide retoactive financing of up to US$10
mimlin (ten percent of the prposed oan) for expendi  incured after
Fruary 1, 1993. Rtoacdve fiancng would allow the estblishent of
the Natonal Project Cooli   Unit, start up activiies of the FPoencio
Varela subproject,         of the pwvincial and municipal executing
units, payig saries of key  ddt onal staff, legislative andI inistive
work in the provinces, logistics, and developing information   t.
6.7 Based on regularly updated investment plans, the Pederal Government
would allocate funds in the MSAS budget for each year during the six-year
project impl en perd. Par             provinca and munpal
governmens would allocate resources in a smiar way to fimance thdir share
of incremental recurrent expendis such as salaries, drugs, and food. ITe
firt fedeal govment allocon of US$10 milion has been made in
MSAS's budget for 1993 (pam7.25). During ns amuraces weoe
obtaned that the Govnment would not later ta Octobe 1 of each
yea during the  oexuon of the Project, sub_it to the Bank for appoval
the hwI tnt plan for project activiieo, Including thnial
allaio, during the net sucding year (par. 9.a).



-37-
Tabl 6.2: FlIANCING PLAN
a toa
i ___________________        __________    _______    _   F in a ncing    _
Totl Projpet       Imm IoveRDM              Pravinu
PCU                               15,202        15,202
National Nutrtio SurvY             7,S62         7,562
Projet Ict Evuatn,                 2,815         2,815                _
Studios, Audits & Tbb Asst.        1,487         1,467
Social Con                         4,000         4,000
Tech. AssisL for Ins. Deveop       4,000         4,000
Floencio Varda Sbpipojoet
staff Saaries ki                1,768            0          1,097           671
Thugs                            959             0            613           346
Food                            1,188            0            711           477
Infastiuctu                    1,599          1,599             0             0
Euipen       _t                  697           S42             90            65
Vehicle                           95            95              0             0
Treinlng                         450           450              0             0
Techtical AuEis nxe              423           423              0             0
FuUre Provincd/unickwd
SubprOecta_                       _      _      _           _     _ _        _
Staff Salarias /               32,644            0         23,554         9,090
Drugs                          14,948            0          8,676         6,272
Food                            8,331            0          5,258         3,079
Infastructume                  42,607        42,607
Equlpnsent                     13,683        13,683             0             0
-Vebicls                         648           648
Training                        3,642         3,642 
Technical Asudlscso             1,24S         1,245
Iie                      Taljc Co   W  160,000   100,000        40,000        20,000
Al   Totumay nt tadd Sto braoUn*.
i   bInludes toxs ad MOtway Incentves fstaff tinig and bomues for chUd d pelposmt cents'
auxiliaty peonndL



-38 -
C. Recurrent Costs and Susbiity
6.8  Incremental recurent expendiues would be incurrd to provide health facilities and
child development centes with all the necessary input in personnel as well as goods and
materials. Provcial/municipal incremtal r rent costs would be financed by the
Federal goverment counterpart conbution on a dedining basis. Specifically,
incremental recurrent purchases of food, drug and other materials -and incremental
reurrent salaries would be financed as follows: 100 percent, 70 percent and 30 percent
during the first, second and thurd year of implementation by the federal government, and the
balance, as well as all incremental costs beginning in year four, out of provincial and/or
municipal budgets. This would be specified in the subsidiary agreements between the MSAS
and the participatng provinces (para. 7.9 and para. 7.10).
6.9   The hiring of additional staff, when redployment of personnel is not feasible, and the
development of support services would be based on a gradual phase-in of project activies.
Upon completion of each provincial/municipil subproject, incrmental recunt costs (ased
on the fiscal analysis already made for the first 3 provinces) would be about 3-6 percent of
the ealsting allcons for social sector programs due to: (a) the small additional budgetary
allocations required by ambultry health care and eady childhood development programs;
(b) the lmtd financial weight of matnity departments in local, and especially general,
hospitals; and (c) the targetng of food supplemenion to the neediest. It is exected that
inal reallocations of provincial/municipal program budgets, including savings made in
existin school feeding programs, which may resut out of reforms to be undertakn with
project support, would finance a sizeable share of incremental recurrnt costs.
7. ]PROJECT ITL ' AION
A. Organikation,  a ent and Coordination
7.1   OveraU Organiation. Project adminion would conist of two policymaking
bodies, the national and pvcial steering committees, and three maagement bodies: at the
national level, the Project Coordatng Unit (PCU); at the provincial and municipal levels
their respectve ministries of health, social welfare and eucation.
7.2   MSAS. The project woud be under the direct jurisdiction of the MSAS' Secrearlats
of Health (HS) and Technical Cooperation Projects (TPS), which would be the Bak's
official interlocutors (see Annex C, Chart 1). The Minister of Helth and Social Action
would make the final decisions in case of major disagms between the Secreaiats. The
Secretadats would: a) ensure that provincial paticipaion criter are applied consistendy; b)
exercise oveall supvision of the deir of the basic MCHN package of services; c)
oversee tecimical assstance and training programs; d) appoint, with Bank approval, the
PCU's directoro and d) orgnize and preside over Federal Steefing COmmittee meetings. In
additon, UNDP would provide assistance for moniting and transferring fumds to the PCU,
and possible for selecting and managing consultants who will cary out the national studies
(see pam 7.16).



-39 -
7.3   The Federal Steerig Committe. The Fedeal Steering Commitee (PSC) composed
Of reatv  of the Federal Minishty of Economy, Federal Secrta  of Social Action,
Peder Manal and Child Health Nadonal Dircto, miiste of beat or equivalent of
p otipt  p ,vinc, professional associations (obsetticias, pediatcias and nurses) and
NGOs would asist in policy development inlte-agency coordinaton, resouce use and
perioic performance evaluation. The FSC would meet as reuested by the HS/TPS, but not
less than once every six months to mrview the prqject's progress. The minutes of each
meedng would be recorded and would become part of the next meeting's agenda FSC
members would be paid a per diem, as wel as tsans on coss to th ses selected for
the meetin, by the project. Terms of reference for the FSC have been agreed with the
Government and are in tbo project files.
7.4   The Poject Cordng Unit (PCU). The PCU has been establsed and fully
staffed to guide and coordino project iplemeon, pde teh   a          to the
provincial and municipal subproect UnitS, and monitor and suevs the implementton of
actvides under provincia and municipal subprojects. In addition, the PCU would desig
and arove technical assstane proposals for institional strenenng as well as stdies.
The oraizton and functions of the Project Prearin Unit in the MSAS were amended
by Pred a Decree No. 443193 of March 16, 1993 establishing the PCU to coordinate the
implementation of the proposed poect. The Bank has received a copy of the Preidential
Decree ceaig the PCU. During negotiatios assurances were obtained thalt the PCU
would apply the alrea  agreed provincial pardcipadon criteria during proJect
Implemntation (pare. 9.2b).
7.S The PCU's functions would include:
- carying out poricy and other HS sad TPS instructions
- serving as a link among the differen MSAS units dealing with the proect, and among
te fera and prvnil maaeet levels
- day-to-day proect administration, including speising the enforcement of
fedealprovincial, provincial/mumipalpticipati ageements
- preparig disbursement requests, and managin the transfer of funds from the Ministry
of Economy and the Bank to the Federal Ptoject Account, as wel as to Provincial
Accut
- dismntig best prcie among pardciptng and nonparticipating provinces
- reviewing and discussing with provincidal and municpa health and other relevant
mists investment props,  commenag  course of acdon to the FHS, and
provwiing technical assiance to provinces and muni  for preaing and
implementing investment proposals, and in all other matters elatd to policy nd
- coordnat   manpower development, incluNg training programs
- mitoring and evahating project performance
- based on the above, advising the ES and the TPS to terminate provincal areemt,
and to sig new aeements
7.6   The PCt's director (the Project Coordinar) and  s dwuty, and the four PCU
deuty manager, who have been appointed by the MSAS with the approva of the Banki
would be the opeatioal link between MSAS units, the Badk and povincia minstries Of



-40-
social action or health. During negotiations, the Government furnished the Bank a copy
of Mniterial Resolution No. 170 of 4 June 13 nmIng the PCU Director (para. 9.1a).
The PCU Director would approve provincial investment proposal before sending them to the
Ba& for review. The PCU Direcor would approve cosltant contcs, and appoint,
tansfer, and remove PCU staff. HetShe would approve and send to the Bank disbursement
requests, easure that project guidelines, and norms for procum reporng, accounting
and auditing are folowed, and that invesments are made for the approved puposes, and
prepae biannual and annual implemention plam, consolidated bianual progress repots,
and anmul and mid-term evaluation reports for review and approval by the HSSTPS and the
Bank.
7.7   PCU staff are organized in four managment units (see Amex C, Chart 2):
programming, opeadons, information systems, and fmance and admiaLsaion. A lawyer is
resosible for assisting prvincial governments with leg  aspects of organion,
management and finacing. Technical staff have been appointd for health, nutition, child
development, management information systems (including monitoring and ealuation),
logistics and institond stgthening activities based on job descriptions and terms of
reference, chronograms and rem     levels agreed with the Bank Cm project files).
Assuances were obtaned during negotiations that the Government would maintain the
PCU with staffing satisfactory to the Bank for the duration of the project (para. 9.2c).
The PCU terms of rfce and the detailed opeional diives related to the PCU
repos ilities for proect impleme   are contaned in a Project Operatons ManuaL
h fnal drft of the Manual was submitted to the Bank during apprais. During
negotiations, the Government furished the Bank a letter dated 4 June 1993 stating that
the MSAS has offcaly adopted the Project Operations Manual (pan. 9.1b).
7.8   The implementon of the provincalmuIcial subprojects would be monitored
closey by the PCU. During negoiions, assurances were obtained that the Gover_nmt
would funish the Bank (i) biannual reports of the physical and financial status of the
subprojects, and (1f) ot later than October 1 of each year an annual progrss report
and proposed investment plan for the foDowing calendar year (pan. 9.2d). Agreements
were abo reached that by the Project Mid-Term Review the Governent would furnih
the Bank an assessment report on the status of fte service indicators for the subprojects
Implemented (pam. 9.2d).
7.9   Provincial and Municipal Manement Angements. Provinces would participate
in the project on the basis of agreed crtia (see Annex D). Crteria include:
- lage absolute number of poor, who would also represent at least 30 percent of fte total
population in the selected m es
-  fiscal and ad ive capabilites to carry out the project as evidenced by fulfillment
cntywide critera applied to the Bank-assisted Prvincial Development Project
- political commitnent to basic health care and nutition, and child development as
evidenced by eistig and plamed resource allocadons, ongoing and planned reforms
- agreement to reform and improve the targeting and cost-effecdveness of provincial
school feeng prams based, at least partly, on project-financed analysis; and to
tca er the reslig savigs to basic bealth care programs



-41 -
- agreement with the proposed prject's basic heah and nutrition and early childood
development service packages; legal and adminisve angems for geogmpic
and popuation argeing, organizaion and managemen, staff taining, monitoring
and evaluation; establishment of separte project accounts, accounting and audit
procedurs
- assignment of the required resources to the poject, including advance annual funding
allocations and adequate cash releases, particulaly for covern incremental recurrent
expenditures, as well as agreement to maximize staff redeployment to reduce
incremental operating costs
- prepation with provincial funds of the provincial investment requests bad on the
agreed guidelines
- signing by the provincial governor of the poincal agreement with the Mini  of
Health.
7.10 The provincial participation citeria include minimum and maximum investment limits
as follows: (a) as a minimum, one entire municipality would paricipat in the project; (b)
the minium size of the target populadon (for Buenos Aires, the fifth and sixtf stat of
census raiuses of the Permanent Household Survey, and for other cides the population with
unmet basic needs, would be 10,000); (c) the maximum investment per province wil be
based on the proportion of the poor population living in the province relative to the total
number of poor in the six selected provinces of the project; and (d) the maximum investment
per munipalty will on average not exceed 10 percent of total project investments or US$16
million over a three-year investment penod. The Govemment funished the Bank duing
appraisal the final draft Subidiay Model Agreemet between the MSAS and the Pwvinces
and between the Provinces and the Municiplies partiipaig in the project. During
gotions assurances wee obtained that the MSAS would sign Subsidiary
with partpating Provices covering obHations applicable to all subprojects  which
such Provinces are involved with tem and conditions satlsfactory to the Bank (para.
9.2e). The sining of the Subsidiary Agreemet would be a condition of first
disbunement for each Province (para. 9.3a). In tUrn, each Province, when required,
would sign a separate subproject agreement with participatig Mes before
dibursing for eah municipal subproject (pan. 9.3a). During notiations a nces
were obtained that violations of these agreements would be suffident case for
suspesion of dibu en  in the partpatg pvinces, and that  cipatig
provinces which do not perform adequately would be replaced either by the remaining
provinces under the project or by other provinces which meet the paticipaton criteria
as agreed by the MSAS and the Bank (see para. 9.20.
7.11  Bach provincial miis  of health (PMH) or his/her equivnt wold be responle
for  evwing, coolidag and tasmitting to the PCU directr the provcial and
muncipal investment prposals. The first provincial investment proposal made for the
municipalit of Floricio Varela in the Buenos Airs Province was reviewed and apve
by the Bank during appraisal, and the investment proposals for the Tcuman and Santa Fc
Provinces were receny completed. Th PMH or bis/her eqivalnt would also supervise
subproject implementation based on the general guidelines provided by the federal/provincial
and provincial/municipal agreements, prvincial laws and regulations and project manuals.



-42-
7.12  The PMH or his/her equivalent would be responsible for fund tunfes to povidd
and municipal publc service providers, enforemet of the provinal and municipal
p      n  agreements, overa supervision, and the provis  of support services (taining,
logistcs, and maintenae). The PMH may establish steerng commi;tt  with similar
funcdtons and representon to those of the FSC.
7.13  The PlM or hislher equivalent would delegate the maxdmum amount of
iplemenon rponiilities to Provincial Executing Units (PE  and when applicabl
Municipal Executing Units (U) in line with  Inplementation capcity. Tbese
responsibilities would include pteparing ivestmen proposals, as well as managing the
purchase of goods and seices needed for sub-poject implementi, resource alocation to
field units, and field monioring and evauation. The project's orgnization stuctu  and
management systems at the provincial and municipal levels would be based on existg
programs and institutional arngements for MCH1N and child development actvities.
Existing local personnel would be assiged to staff the PEUs and the MEUs; PCTJs
consltants and locally-bired consutants would provide technial astance and support the
wotk of local personnel when deemed necessary. The project's insdtutional component
would be managed by the PEMRs and municipal units depeding on their scope and size with
PCU technical assistance as required.
7.14  Operatios would be caried out both at the provincia and municia levels based on
the agreed opeaional mamuls ( project files), which provide norms and procedures to be
followed in the foUowing areas: procrement and distibon of goods and services, staff
management and taining, maintce, supervision, NGO and commuty participaton and
coordination, fining, auditing, and monitoring-evaluation. During appraisal, the
Government fuished for Bak review the final dr  of the Operating Manuls. During
negotiatins, the Govenment furnished the Bank a letter dated 4 june 1993 stating that
the MSAS has adopted the Project Operatg Manuals (para 9.1b). The municpal unts
would prepare quartedy progress reports which would be discussed with and consolidated by
prviial ministries before being transnitted to the PCU dir    and through him/her to the
PHS and the Bank.
7.15  Subproject Preparation Procedures. Subproject processing at the pvincial and
municipal levels would consist of tbree major actvitis:
(a) Preparation. Partic  g provinces and mun     s would prepare with the
suport of the PCU subproject proposals including a technical, social and economic
justfication for acdvities to be financed, in the ontet of the overl investment
progrms m the paticiatng provices and mities; an assessment of
individual compoent; the preliminary design of civil wors, and spVecfcaio of
equipment, pesonl, drugs and other medical sWpbes, chnical asta, and
stues to be financed; details o inshtuonal a gmets for execution of the
component, supervision of execution, and operatons and m nane; and financial
arrangements for funig increm       recurrent expendimues, begiing in the second
year of subproject implemeion.
(b) Approval. Upon completion of subproject preparation the PCU would ass  the
subproject proposal. Appraisl would include an evauation of the abilit of the



-43-
participating provinces and m     to meet incremenl recurrent eWenses. The
appraised proposal would be se by the PCU to the Bank for final approval. Durig
negotiations assurances were obtaned that subproject proposals would be
prted for Bank review and approvaI once they have been cleared by the PCU
according to prolect gideies (parn. 9.2g). Once a subproject is approved, a
budget, procurment, and disbusement cycle specified in Anex E would be
followed.
B. Procurmett
7.16 Prcurement for civil works, equipment, and materials would be done in accordance
with Bank guidelines (May 1992), using standard Bank bidding documents for In atonal
CompeWtive Bidding (ICB) and standard docmen for Local Competitive Bidding (LCB).
Procurement arangements are  mmarized below in Table 7.1. The hiring of consultants for
undetaldng studies and poviding technical assistance would follow Bank guidelines (August
1981). For complex, time-based assigmnens, consulting firms would be employed using the
sandard form of contra for consulting services isued by the Bank. During negotiations,
rances were obtained that the Governent has made suitable arrangeme
acceptable to the Bank for handlig p-uenwt (ra. 9.2h). Since UNDP has
succeslly provided administrative support to the Bank-financed SSMTAL project, the
MSAS and the Bank agreed to condder UNDP/Argentia, among other alteratives, to
monitor and trandsfer funds to the PCU, and to manage the underting of the national studies
(pm. 7.2).
7.17   teonal bidding (ICB) is expected for the Socal Communication Campaigns
estmated at US$4.0 million which would be procured through a two-step ICB procedure (the
first step would involve p       of bidders and evahlaton of technical proposals, and
the second, a call for prices on the bais of adjusted satons). The bulk of civil wors
comprie rehabilitation and refudbishing of   t ciLties. Civil works contracts valued
above US$3.0 million would be awarded tough ICB. Coacs between US$50,000 and
US$3.0 million totalling about US$30.7 millo would be awarded thrwgh LCB in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. To the extent possible, contacts for
workS wud be combined in pakages of US$50,000 or more. For civil works contacts
below US$50,000 local shopping requiing at least three quotations would apply up to an
aggrgat amount of US$1.3 million.
7.18  Equipment for hospitls, healh centers, child development centers, information
systems, and vehicles are expetd to reach a maximum of US$1.0 million approximately for
each individual subproject, over a three year period. During appraisal, a standard list of
medical equipment and vehicles to be financed under the project was reviewed and apprved.
All the subprojects would use the following pcedues for p ent of goods: ICB
procedre would apply for contacts higher than US$300,000; LCB procedures acceptable to
the Bank would apply for contcts between US$50,000 and US$300,000 up to an aggrgate
amount of US$9.8 million; and local shopping procedures rceiving no less than three
quowt       would apply for purhases below US$50,000 up to an aggregate amount of
US$1.2 million.



"44'
7.19  Consants carying out studies and technical      would be hired following
Bank guieln. Contmc for smal consulng
US$100,000 or less, wold be formaHzed on the basis of standard  ms of refaee and
employment contons accepable to the BaiW
7.20  During apisal the ist of gei dngs and the special con  of the nutonal
packges and composiion of the forfied milk, to be financed under the proect, was
reviewed and approved. The following categories would be procured under local ptocedutes
because they wil be totaly financed by the fedal governme  and/or the
provinces/muncalities: (a) dreg; and (b) milk and food upplemen.
7.21  Prior rview by the Bank would be requred for: all pUement do       for
ICB concts; the first LCB contct of each suproject on each year; any civil work
contrct over US$300,000; and any contrc for goods higher than US$200,000. Pior
rview would also a]pply to procur   of sertices o be prvided tbrough single source
contcts; c ng as             valued at above US$100,000; and for the employment of
indvidals. Prior rview by the Bank for conwslting contacts vued at US$100,000 or les
would cover the tems of reference and the contc if a model is developed. All otber
conrac would be reviewed on an ex-post basis in the fild during Bank supevision
missions. Beause of the natue of the prject, it would be dificul to esmate the precise
number of conracts that would fall above t  prior review threholds. Baswd on the data
available for the Flono Varela subproject, roughly 50 percentof the total number of
conrcts would undergo prior rview by the Badk.



-45-
TABLE 7.1: PROCURBMNT METHODS BY CATEGORYa 
(US*'OOO)
| CATEGORY                                       ice            ccaoTR                          NaF          TOAL
Florenolo Varele bsuproJoot
CIvlt works                                                 1,066               533t                     1,599
Goods: Drnps                                                                                   9f9           959
-                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(O)  _(0)
Fe                                                                                                1,188
Uqulpuent & Vehfctls                                    554               238i792
_______________________________________ .___________             (446)              (19 1)                    (637)
Training                                                                         450                       450
_________________________________ ._________                                       (450)                     (4 50)
1,768        1,7_ 8
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _(0 )  (0 )
r  Tochnfet lAssfstance                                                          423                       423
____            ~~~~(423)      -43
Subtotal Floronc¢o Varela Subproj.ct                           1,421             1,644        3,916        7,180
(1,512)           (1,597)          (0)      (3,109)
StudieS, T.A., Natinal Nutrtion                                                 11,8W                     11,863
Survey, & __mp _t Evoluoticn                                                   (11,863)                  (11.863)
SocIal Commfneation CapIgn                     4,000                                                       4,000
(4.000)                                                     (4,000)
_            tSV 15,202               15,202
(15,202)                 (15,202)
SUITOTAL                                       4,000           1,621            28,709        3,916       38,246
(4.000)        (1,512)          (28663                     (34  7)
Future Provincfal ad  Nmafcpat
Civtl Worsu                                 12,000         29,607              1,00ow                   42,607
_____________________________   X(12.000)                    (29.607)           (1.000)                   (42.607)
Goods. Drugs                                                                                14,948       14,948
I__________________________________  ___________   I_________ _  (0 )  (0 )
food                                                                                 8,337        8,337
fpuip.mnt 6 Vehicles                  4,000           9,3ii             1,000%/                  14,331
(4,000)        (9.331)           (1,000)                   (14.331)
Trafning                                                                        3,642                    3,642
(3,642)                  (3 642)
Ialaw te                                                                                   32,664       32,644
_ _ _       _                            _                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(0)  0
TechnfeIl Asstance                                                              1,245                    1,24S
(1.245)                  (1.245)
Subtotal Future Provirnftl and                16,000          38,938              6,887      55,929      117,754
munfefpal SueproJ  cts1 t6,000)                              (8938)              (6,8m           (0)    (61.825)
TechtI   AssIsnce for                                                             4,000                    4,000
InstItutfatl DloPtmnt                                                             4,000)  _        _       (4,000)
TOrAL                                         20,000         40,559              39,596      59,845      160,000
___________________________________   (20,000)          (40,4S0)           (39,550)         (0)    (100.00)
#   Totats fnltude tae   nd eontinWne es. Ambwnt  in paretsis Show Otloatton oft lon proeds.
of rect contracting.
Locat shappfng.
Includes tae.
includs staff salries, office  quipmwnt, mtertsls, csultancfes,  nd operatIonal   pmnses.



-46-
C.D             and Accounts
7.22  The proceeds of the prposed loan are aeected to be disbursed in accordance with
the schedule shown In Annex B, over a period of six years. The allocation of loan amounts
and the dsbu     perwe   ar summaxred in Table 7.2.
7.23  La wihdmwal applcations would be fully documented for contct valued at
US$100,000 or more for consulants finns, and at US$200,000 or more for goods and
US$300,000 or mote for civil wors. Clams for smaller   endes would be supponed
by sements of           , for which the suwotg domeaon would be retaned by
the PCU for perodic Inspecton by Bank stff and ex al auditors. Closing date will be
December 31, 1999.
Table 7.2: ALLDCATION AND DISBURSEMENT OF I3RD LOAN
Amount of the Loan     Peion of
Alocaed    essed         to be Fnanced
In US Dollar gqiv._
Subprojects
- Civil Wods                      35,000,000              100%
- Goods (ept dmgs and food)       11,800,000              100%
- Conaant  Services and Tining    4,600,000               100%
Consuktant Swrvica
- social Cu         Campai,    12,000,000                 100%
NutritionalSurvey, Impact Bvaluation,
Audis, and Stdi
- PCU                             12,600,000              100%
- InsttutonaDlvde pmen            4,000,000               100%
Unallocated                        20,000,000
TOTAL                               100,000,000



-47-
7.24  Specal Accout. To filitat timely project Implemenion, the Federal
Govermet would establish, main, and operate, under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, a special account in US dollars at the Banco de La Nadon. To cover stat-up
costs for each povincdal spject as well as to fiance the prepration of additional
povincidal subprojec, the Bank would make an initial deposit of up to US$8.0 millon to the
sil account upon request. Project expenditures would be monitored by the PCU. The
PCU would request            of the Speil Account on the basis of the standad
disbusemet procedues. Withdrawals frm the special account would be supported by
sdufiently detd do     natin or SOB in accordnce with Bank disbursement
procexu_s. Iln addition, subproject accounts with counterpart funds would be established in
each of the par      provices and muices once a subproject has been approved.
Me PEUsJMEUs would request from the PCU quarterly advances of federal and local
counrt fiuds to be deosied in provincial/municipal accounts to carry out proment
of goods and services when these are to be done at the provincial level based on past
performance and agreed work progams.
D. Accounting and Audting
7.25  Implementing agencies would maintain sepate project accounts that would be
exernally audited anlly    the Auditorfa General de 1a Nad6n (Goveranment Audit
Bureau; Publc Sector Finandal Admintation Law No. 24156, promulgated in October
1992) or a smilar indqndent agency designated by the Government acceptable to the Bank.
The audits would include the spea account and the statements of expenditures, and would
cover compliance with the Bank's pu t procedures. During negotations, the
Government furnishd the Bank the final draft detaled audiing procedur  for both the
PCU and the provincal and muniipal accounts (pars. 9.1c). Asurances were obtained
during negotiations that the project loan account, SOEs, and Specll Account would be
audited in a manner satsfactory to the Bank, and an audit report would be presented to
the Bank no later thn six months after the end of each calendar year (pa. 9.20.
E. Status of Project Preparation
7.26  The health, nu m n,and child devsepme srvice packages have been agreed, and
uni costs esimates have been made. Model nationaUprovincial and provincial/municipal
agreements have been finaized. Provincidal parpaion cteria have been also agreed.
Opeaonal manulds have been approved by the Bank contiing the organiaton
management, procement, acouxting, auditing, tbaing, monitorng, and evaluaion
procedus. The Florencio Varela subproject proposal was evaluated and approved by the
Bank at appraisal, and the Tucmnan and Rosario (Santa Fe) subprojects were recently
competed and presented to the PCU for review. The PCU was establshed by Pesidenal
Decree, and is fully saffed and operadonal (see para. 7.4). Job profiles and terms of
refrene for all its members were agreed (see Project's General File). A Project



-48-
Coordinao  bas been appoied (see paa. 7.4), as well as  ae      uni  s.
Govemmem prqject coneiput financg amountg to US$10 million has been allocated as
a pecific ne item in MSAS's 1993 matemra and child budget (Budget Account No.
.Turisdiecl8 MSAS, Progrm  18). The first subsidialy agree_me, with the Province
of Buenos Aires, has been signed.
F. Monitoring and Supervislon
7.27  The PCU would be responsible for overall project monioing and peiodic evaluadon.
Monioding and evaluation would include two sets of indicatos: (a) progess indicaors that
would rflect the smooth and timely mplemention of project activiies; and (b) outcome
indicars rated to project objectives. Durng negotitons, the Governmet furnished
the Bank with a basi lit of these Indicators (see Annex F) which would be used as a
mnimum by paI g  proviaes as speced In the subsidiary agreements (paa.
9.1d). Additol work would be done by the PCU to develop reference benchmark daft for
each of the indicators.
7.28  Ealy in October of every year the PCU would prpar and send to the Bank for its
review the last 12 months progress report and a proposed action plan for the foBowing year.
After Bank pproval, the acton plan would become opetonal. The plan would be updated
every six months based on progress reports that would be discussed with the Bank during
spervision missins. Progres repoRts would analyze actu  and planned perfomance im
eaching proces and outme tuargets; and propose changes in objectives and implementaion,
as required. Governmnt/WBak agrement on the prvio  progress leport's concludons and
reomm lendations would be equired for apprval of the subequent acton plan and futue
disbursements.
7.29  Te project would reire subsantial Bank operion. About 30-35 staff weeks
would be required per year in the first two years of implnaton,dii  as project
development allows (see Annex G). Ihe supevision level is amply jusified. First, the
project would be the first Bank investment operaton in the scial secto  in Agenina, which
raises the level of uncertainty. Second, much of the work would emerge during
and cannot be planned ahead: 6 provincs and a minimum of 16
musklpaEtis would particpate, each with its own adminiative and lepl framework,
service pfie, and  efic argets. TIrd, a number of experiments in impoving eficiency
and efiveness of provicil and municipal health care systems would be carried out and
rqu indiidl follow-up. Fially, the child developmen coponen Maddlng tfhe heath
care and the educainn areas, andinorporatng imaginaive new psycho-cial development
systems, wouxd re  carenfl monitoring.



G. Mid-Term Review
7.30  The proposd project repesents an innovative approach to the delivery of MCHN and
early childhood development services. Implementation would prvide important lessons,
which are ewxcted to lead to changes in project design and implemen   ms.
To facilita these prcesses the PCU and the Bank would joindy carry out bianual reviews,
as well as a mid-term review at the end of the third year from effectiveness or when one half
of loan funds are disbursed, whichever happens earlier. During  tiassurances
were obtained from the Govemment that the annual and mid-ter reviews would be
carried out (pa. 9.gj).
H. Environmental Impact
7.31  The project would not have any sigficant advese impact on the envn, and
has been clasiied as Type C. Standard sfety procedur  would be followed in the
rehabilition of the health  s c, and in the installaion and operation of equpment
supplied under the project. Prcedures for safe  anling of hazardous wastes and mateals
would be included in th  aining program for health personnel. In additou, health and
nutritiom education campaigns would inform beneficiaries in project areas about
envionmental ris  and measues to reduce the spread of communcable diseases.
L Impact on Women
7.32 Poor women would receive pre-natal, child delivery, and post-natal cate, as well as
health and nutrition educadon and information. Pre-natal cae would detect poten   birth
compications, while delivery services in local hospitals would be imrwved to handle nomal
births and birs with compons. Post-natal care would include information on biffh
spacig, which has a great potential for enhancig the health status of mothers. The
nuitlonal status of prgnant amd lachtting mothers would be improved thogh nuition
surveiance and food supltin. Child care cters would free women to work
outside their homes.
8. EXE:CTED BENEflTS AND RIMS
A. BeneIt
8.1   The princpal benefit of the proposed project would be reducing death and ilness
among women in the reproductive age span, pregnant and lactang women, and childr
The project woud also promote full physical, mental, and social deveoment of children
under 6 years of age. Project int     would improve infant and child survival and
matenal health, reduce the pevalence and severity of the most common dies, and
promote the care of young children, emphasizing their physical, emodonal intellecu, and
social develment, which is likely to improve learning acievement in primay educaon.



.50-
The project would also initiate a process of managrial and operational improvements in
provicial and munpal socidal programs for the dehvery of MCHN and early childhood
development services. Provinces and munices would receive practical taining in
plannig and implementation.
B. Risk
8.2  In general, provincial and municipal healt administaon in Argentina is weak, and
this weakness limits the potential for improving and expandig services. However, the
project has a simple design, and is adapted to prevailing coons. Polidcal commitment is
strong both at the national and the local level, and liMely to be sustained, not only because
present administrations would be in power undl the end of 1995, but also because MCHN is
a national issue transcendg political pardes. The project is targeted on 6 provinces and a
handfil of munici es that meet stringent pa on ceria. Beneficiary groups are
well defined and live near targeted services. Only two types of interventions are
con plated (MCHN and early childhood development). Implementaion would proceed
along d    li  lines, diminishing the impact of possible botenecks on the project as a
whole; and would be based on existng administative stuctr  and norms. Subsantial
technical assistance would be provided at the fedeal and provincial levels. UNDP would
suppoxt ainistraion and UNICEF would assist with taining, monitoring and community
Participation.
9. AGREEMETS REACHIED
9.1   During negotiations the Govenment furished the Banic (a) a copy of Minisrl
Resolution No. 170 of 4 June 1993 naming the PCU Director (pam. 7.6); (b) a leter stating
that the MSAS has officially adopted the Project Oprating Manuals (pam. 7.7 and pan.
7.14); (c) the final draft audit procedures for federal, provincial, and municipal accounts
(pam. 7.25); and (d) a basic list of indicators to monitor provincial and municipal subprqects
(pam. 7.27).
9.2   Assurances were obtained during negotiatloasthat:
(a) the Government would not later than October 1 of each year during the execution of
the Project, submit to the Bank for approval the investment plan for project acdvides,
inchuding technical assistance allocations, during the next succeeding year (paa. 6.7);
(b) the PCU would apply the agreed provmcia particpion critia during project
implementation (para. 7.4);
(c) the Government would maintain the PCU with saff  satisfictoy to the Bank for the
dumation of the project (pam. 7.7);



-51-
(d) the PCU would furnish the Bank: i) biannd repoit of the physical and fiancial
status of the suLprojects, and (h) on October 1 of each yea an annual pwgress report
and prposed investmen plan for the follig caendar year (pai  7.8). A,gemn
woud also be reach  that by the Ptject Mid-Tem Review, the Govemt would
fiuish the Bank an assesment report on the status of the sevice ixdcator for the
subprojects implemented (pan. 7.8);
(e) te MSAS would sign SubsidiaW  Agrements with    I      Provinces coveing
obligati applicable to all subprojcts in which such Provinces are involved with
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (pan. 7.10);
(f) that violais of MSAS/Rovinces and o                       eements would be
suffient case for suspension of dibur  t in the Pa       provinces, and
that p        provinces which do not perform adequately would be replaed eitier
by the remaining provinces under the project or by other pwvinces which meet the
particptin  criteia as agreed by the MSAS and the Bank (pam. 7.10);
(g) provica subproject proposals would be presnted for Bank review, once they have
been cleared by the PCU accoig to project gudeln  (pam 7.1Sb);
(h) the Govemment has made suitable          acoeptable to the Bank for handling
proemen (pam  7.16);
(i  tie project loan accout, SOEs, and Specil Account would be audted in a manner
sa cy  to the Bank, and an audit report would be prented to the Bank no latr
thn six months after the end of each calndar year (pam  7.25); and
(j)  the anna and mid-tem rvews would be   ried out (pam 7.30).
9.3   Conditios of Disburseent:
(a) the frs dit o each   i g  pr               e/muni iy in the project would
be subject to the signing of an agreement betweea the MSAS and the Prvice, and,
if required, between the Province and the M, with term  and conditons
satsfacoy tD the Bank (pam. 7.10).



-52 -
AmuuA
PROJEC ACION PLAN STUDZES
Study                          lmetable           Stusllmark
A.1   Natoal Nutrtion Surwy
lTams Of Rue    :              Nov. 1993          Outline and Objecde
Agmed
Contact:                      SFeb. 1994
Start                          March 1994
Completion:                    March 1997
A.2  Impact Evaluaion Studies
Tam  Of Reerece:               Nov. 1993          Outline and Obtectives
Aged
Feb. 1994
sart:                          Mach 1994
Compleon:                      March 1997 and 1999
A.3   Evakbton of NaDional Food
nSupV -*[ Peogam
Tams of Rerence:               Dec. 1993          Oudine and Objectves
Agmed
Contract:                     hMarh 1994
Start:                         June 1994
Completion:                    June 1995



Annex B
- s3 -
ARGENTDNA- MCEN PROJECT
-ghnkted E_a    ed Costs
(US '00)
- _                                           Local     Posip          Tota    S Poaip   s d
.                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~Exoag Ba..
cost
plormnolo VSgua                              5,117       2U9          5,336          4     4
Futu  0Sub*m                               111,704      6,050       117,754          5    78
Subtoa                                      116,S8       6,6         123,091          5    82
N jiovl Nutdtioo 9mvew                        5,630          0         5,00           0      4
Proje Ic svauto                               1,930          0         1,30           0      1
Sbdiea and Azdu                               1,487          0         1,487          0      1
_0__o_ ______d___ _P         _ __             4,000          0         4,000          0      3
Teh Asdhtne wr 1et Develop.                   4,000          0         4,000          0      3
I~~~~ -CU                                                                         -
Poml                                         8,82I          0         8,825          0      6
Teolcal A    _iataae                          6SO           0          650           0      0
Tavel and Pet &n                              514           0          514           0      0
Compuew Equipmn and Sotui                       0          73           73         100      0
S~ - ---
O0ce Mae dat.sod Sevc                         359           0          359           0      0
Sublotal                                     10,347         73        10,420          1      7
TOTAL BASE COST                             144,215       6342       150,557          4   100
c d C _ Soodusmi"                              838          13          850                  1
Price Co _dngumu                              84S83          9         8,592                 6
TOTAL PROJECT COST                          1S3,635      6,36S       160,000
al PMU staff would perom  varlous tus: () mOf ovemf                    l roect
impleenio; Z() prOviSion of tchnicl asthae in t  p_pbation and
implementatio  of prvhinc    nd municia subprojes; (ii) eview and
evalaon of provia and muica   subwject proposas; and
(IV) nt of naoal                    iand  ampaigns.



FLOgUHOIOARELAlUXM%IO.T           MMRt: IUSM        YM*R nod4          WEARM: 16I        WAR t 169         W.ARS t OS       WAR* 396              TOAL
COOINSW              LOG  WM4   TMT  LOG  RMe   TOT  LOO  FRAN   TOT  LOG  FROI  TO   LOGM F WI   O   LOrB  MME  TOT  LOG   MM   TOT
pwmmminUaw.a                      to1    0    141  soS    a    an   US4       0    so  66       5   16      a    a       0    0    a       0   OR?    a   95
adMa-lT                            47    a    47110         0    10 114       a    M1   as    0    as    a    a          a    0    a       a   US      a   U
b*uambiSu                         16      a    U    414    0    40      0    II      0    0    0       0    a    a      a    0    0       0   76       a   70
Uq4uimw                           us   14   go        0    0       a    0    0       a    a    B       B    0    0       a    a    a      0   as   14   me
Onig                              It4   ai    la0  15    OR   60   m7   us   Ot   is0   as   la$    a    o               o    o    a       a     u   "a    t
Vdd,-                               as   so    74    0       a  0     0    0      0     0        0      a     0       0  0    0    0             30   31    14        m
sdd-Tm                           0    a       a    4    0       4    III    0    to    7    a       7    0    a       0    0    a       a    go    0    go
Po mainmwdwwuis-0Ui                 0    a0     BIt    0    0I   uS    a   1as  lt    a    ast    a    0                 0    a    0      0    V6      0     IT
WASIMAIANS                a      *     a   go        on mite         o    a 11         a      a    a    0       a    0    0         B IG    0   1its 
TdiIMb                            I      0     it   60    0      U    t7    0       7I    0    0      0    a    a       0    0    0       0    to     0    to
VaJ~~~~~~~~~s ~~~11  tO               I      0l    B     01   01    0            03    0      3    '0    0           0    0      0    II    o    10
IUTowtiLCFR.diw  UWI               gg    o      61 13        a    go6   A            4 Al   to        toIl   a           a     0    0      0  1*4    tO   Ids
FosUsd1                            It   0a   21   47    a          7 6  0                 ISa  a      U     0 0 a0            a    0      0    It6    0      l 9
CuaF         0EVAUWI                      B      0h10"      0    tOO   161    a   16   166    0    tUb    B    a         I    a    0       0   716   0o    1,6
Fowdfdt                            so    a      0   41    a    01   as    a    10   a9    0    so    0    a              a    a    0      10  t7a    0    3
USOT    RIeaI                             A    131   "aB    a    IGO  44      0   444  ids    a    too    B    0,    B7 .                 0 1.         0   71.1
mm                                                    a Ro                          Oa   ea  o                    a r                                  a   a
O~~s4vEqs~~~~imult ~~0   a3    11    a    0               0    a    0       0    0    0       0    0    0      0    0    a       0      0   Ua    Is
VNIS                       6~~~~ I     1    a    I       I    I    I       S    4    1       4    0    0       0    0    0       a    to    4    Os
UBTOT&FI4v.FRW.IS.IowbODom          8   a8    Is    a    I         7    7    I       0    4    1       4    a    a       0    0    0       0     aO  in    as
513R960                            19t    S    UNt  "a    0    1013            0    UfS    a    a      a    0    B       a    a    0       5   401    S   450
UqAasu4                           "a    a    41   as    0         S0    0    0      05    0    0       0    0o    a    a      01    0     a    4a     a    41
ToglAMdPumn                               0    42   B0    0             0    0      0    B             0    0    B      0    B    0       0    62    0    16
GUOTOM.LUMASSITNOMM          ~           m a02              0      0   31           45         a       So  Oa           II   la    S    01 4           0   406
TOTA.COS                           An6   US 1O2M  .111                        6    AS    4      '     6                        1    0     I    *4  06   1.10



55                           ~~~~~~Ann= B
FINANCING PLAN
(USS '000)
|_._..__ PFinancing
Total Prject        IMD      Govevm_         Pvi
I  _  __._ __,_   Costg/                                .   _                 , plites  I
PCU                I15202                        15I202 ._..._..    __.
Nadtonal  ition Survy               7,562         7,562
project Iupact Evaluato             2,81S         2,81S
Stdies, Audits & Tec  AssL          1,487         1,487
Social Communication               4,000          4,000
Campaig
Tech. Assist fbr Ins. Deveop        4,000         4,000                       . _
Floreadco Varel Subpro_ _ ____   _
staf Suarsno k/                 1,768             0           1,097          671
Dmpg                              959             0            613           346
Food                            1,188             0            711           477
i    *rastructure               1,599          1,599             0             0
Equp t                            697            542            90            65
Vehicle                            95            95              0             0
Trainisg                          450           450              0             0
Tedhial Asisdance                423           423              0             0
Futue Provinuialfuoipl4
Sbproject                                                     .   .
Staff Salauies k               32,644             0         23,554          9,090
Drugs                          14,948             0          8,676          6,272
Food                            8,337             0          5,258          3,079
In2frastructre                 42,607         42,607 _
Eqipmnt                        13,683         13,683             0             0
Vebicles                          648           648
Traling                         3,642          3,642
Tech_a Asistac                  1,245  I_       _   _
Tota Projed Cost                   160,0Q0         lO,C          40,000        20,00
IV   TOMa may no 84d4a SOe touUS
k/  lIcludes  e and moetry inctives for staff  ing and buses for cild dvlpmet ceters'
anP psq  - .



- 56 -                             Anm B
ALLOCATION AND DISBUSENMNT OF IBD LOAN
Amnt of the Loan             Ot         i
AloaedM ed                to be Fucd
Subprojs%
- Civil Works                      35,000,000               10%
- Goods (epqt drugs snd fod       11,800,000               100%
- Cons t Services and Trag          4,600,000               100%
m Scid  ComuCampain                12,000,000               100%
Nuional SurWS, Impact Evaluation,
Audits, and Studies
- PCU                              12,600,000               100%
-                 ptionalDevot      4,000,000               100%
Un.ocated                            20,000,000
TOTAL                                100,000,000



9          ' t11
IA   tt                           ... iitst Z
§   {}Xl1 }1X ] ] 1]Xx S ]  (}1t1I



* -58¢                               CAn@C
zmm2UZP  GM, OF       IT3?? 3LNAIEOh azo
EZETIR Or
s alnQ
SECRt ~~~~OOORALl£S2Z 8
FOR SID             AJDTWK                                  ATI
I~~~~MG
IzCaTRZAT&
NATZM=A
CPRLD ACT
aMD
PROJEC



-59 e
An C
C            bKs-LSM 
COORDINATORDUCTO
PROGUAIO(aNG         OPURATIOULrpt&TO                             J
WiNAOnR              MANAGaR              8YT8T32         ADMZNISTRATIV
SUCTUZALSPNCIALISTS,
TECUNICAL AND ADNINISTRATIVU
SUPPORtT STAFF
PROVINCF1
LOM!mULTJNTJ



-60 -                                 Annex D
SUBPROJECT CYCLE AND PARTICIPATION CRITERIA
1.   The wide variation of policy, insiuonal development, manaement systems and
capabilities, and financial resources, of provcial and municipal health care services strongly
suggest the use of fund mechanism for proect implemeion. A fimd mechanism would
facilitate a demand-driven development process where progress would be linked to the
commitment of providers and local aminions. It also simplifies project desig (fewer
core elements) and facilitates provincial participation by limiting the number of basic
rqiements
2.    Additionally, the fund mechanism is cost effecdve. Moreover, it dmately would
pemit implementing a basic core of natonal policies and sevices, while leaving the required
flexibii to province and municipaliies to apply the naional standards and improve or
expand services on their own with their own policy decisions and capabilities. By promodng
local ownership through a system of rewards (additional avable fundin and technical
assistance) based on perforance, the proect would enhance the commient of prviders
and services users, effiiency, and eventual impact.
Paicipating Agencies and Procedures
3.    The govermenl agencies involved in the proposed project include the Ministry of
Helth and Social Action (MSAS) through two Secretaias: Health and Projects/Technicl
Cooperation. The Project Coordination Unit (PCU), lcated m the Secetnats, would be
responsible for project coordinton-including oversight of resource flows among executing
agencies and beneficiaries- as well as providing the adminiatie ke  between and
among federal agencies and provincial governments partcipating in the project.
4.    The two coordinadng commitees under the project, the Fedeal Stering Committee
(FSC), and the Provincial Steering Committees (PSCs), are concerned with the compatibility
of national policies with local activities under the project.
5.    Subprojects would be formdated by Provincial Implementation Units (PEU) and
Municpal Implemenation Umts (MEU) usig: (a) the elgity critena agreed with the
World Bank; (b) the methodology designed for subproject preparon under the project; and
(c) the guidelines for subproject presentation and evaluation.
6.    Subprojects proposed for financing under the project would have to fuli the
following rqirements:
Formtion: to be done between provders or groups of providers and local
coordinating agncies, presentng ideas and requirements based on above. These proposals
ultmately would be submitted to the PEU which would consolidate the proposals.
Subproject preparation activities would be financed using funds provided by the provincial
healdth entites, local commus, and non-governmental onions.



- 61 -                                 Annex D
Prioritdzation: the PEU would rak and orgnize the subroject for submission
to the PCU based on project guidelines.
Evaluadon: the PCU would analyze each proposal either approving or
suggesding reformulaion and/or rejecing it for not being in conformity with pmcedur  and
criteria estblshed under the proposed project. The Bank would receive all subproect
propols peliminarly approved by the PCU. The Bank would subsequently communiat
in writiDng to the PCU whether it approves, sugges changes, or rejects the proposal.
Agreement of Conformity and Execution. An agreement would be signed by
the provicial Governor and the Federal Minister of Health and Social Action delineating the
obligations and rights of the provinces and the MSAS in undertakng subprojects, assigning
responsities to the respectve parties, and specfying criteria for suaibility of the
subprojecL
Budgetary Framework
7.   Approval of Subproject Budget. The budgetry approval process consists of the
folowing: (a) all subproject proposals would include a detailed cost breakdown per activity
and per year; (b) together with subproject approval, the PCU would set a maximum amount
to be financed for each subproject; (c) immediately after subroject approval, the PiU would
establish the budgetng process and prepare a report detailing how the activities expected to
occur during the frst year of the subproject would be implemented.
8.    The subproject would be approved initially based on the subproject proposal,
inculuing and amount for contingencies. In approving a subproject, the PEU would request
of the PCU an official tansfer of resources (see Manual for Program Planning and
Budgeting In Project Fles). The procurement and conwactng systems, which should be
used in all admive units with bidding and administrative capability, is described in the
Manual for Purchasing and Conhtacting (in Project Nloes).
9.    Prequitr for Bidding. Bids may be sought following the guidelines described in
the Manual for Procurment and Contracts if the following conditons are met: (a) the
subproject has been approved by the PCU; (b) the bidding documents necessary for calling
for bids, satsctory to the PCU and the PEU include: general specfications; paricular
specificions, technical speifications, engineering designs and/or architectal plans (if
approprie), procedures for budget earmarking cleared by the Ministy of Economy and
Provinal Fance Miistry; support and execution arrangements compled.
10. Terms and Conditions. The officers authorized to contract for drafting the Terms
and Conditions should provide for all arngements, preq0usites and/or guarantees to ensure
project effecdveness and efficient execution (see Manual for Purchasing and Contracting).



-62-                                        D
Resource Allocation
11. Fund Estmation. Prior to the bidding, the PEU should inform the PCU of the
estimated funds that would be needed for the execution of its subpwject (Manu  for
Program Planing and Budgting). The PCU, usig the information provided by PIU,
would prepare a funding program that aggregates all necessary estimates for all fundg by
the PIU and send it to the Administrative Authority of the MSAS for the purpose of enteig
into negotons with the aWropriate govemment body to deliver the neessry resources.
Once the contc has been signed, PEU would send to PCU the detailed funding program
for processing.
12.  The PEU, after taking into account any changes from the orgia proposal, would
send to the PCU a quartedy estmate of funds disbursed during the period. The
programming of funds should occur no more than 15 days after receipt by the PCU, and
should contin details about the following: legal agreement between the Govement and the
Bank for each subproject (assigned by PCU when the project is presented for approval);
percentage of fancial advances by date; monthly expenditures; and updated balance.
13. Transfer of Resources. The PCU would anrange for the transfer of resources for
each subproject presented. It would als have the authoity to modify or suspend resource
transfers if the execution of one or more subprojects does not conform to project
rquire:ments.
14.   Statemens of E endi. After fulfilling the terms of the contract as agreed with
the Bank, the PEU would: (a) remit to the PCU within five days of the end of each month
information required for the 'Subpwject Statement of Expen    (see -Manual for
Program Pannig and Budgeting"). Eas information would be analyzed by the PCU
relative to the subproject fincial plan that the PELU and the insitutions involved in the
subproject have pesented at the beginning of subproject implementation (see Manual cited
above). The PCU would study this information and request fiuther information if necessary,
to be provided by the PELT and the pertinent intions.
15. Information and Auditing System. An information and awditing system would be
put in place for subproject implemention and would be available for accesing by Bank
staff, the PCU, the Federal and Provincial Accounting Offices, as well as indepenent
auditors designated by the PCU and/or PEU (see Manual for Auditig and Project
Recordkeeping Documentation).
16.  Official Correspondence. For the purposes of quicldy  m ing informa
about subpwjeCt implementation, official communiques would be as follows: (a) all
correspondence from PEU would be sent direcdy to the PCU Co=dinator in the form of a
leter signed by the PEU Coordinator, (b) simiarly, the PCU Coordinator, or a desige
would use a letter format when reesting the requied project information fom the PEU; (c)
all communications of the PCU Coordinator with the Secretary of Heah, the Secretary for
Projects and Technical Cooperation, and with the FSC would be by official memoranum.



- 63 -                                Annexc 0
Distribution of Resources between Jurisdictions
17.  The Federal Govenment would determine the maxdmum amount of resources
available for each of the 6 selected province based on the prcentap  of the tauget populatin
living in the province relive to the total of the 6 selected provinces. During the second
year of the project, PCU would separate provinces by subproject pproved and determ
that collectively these subprojects do not exceed a maxmum fndig level based on
provincial trget populaion criteria. PCU would then inform the FSC and each jurisdiction
relative to promoting any additional subprojects in compliance with establshed guideUnes.
18.  Provincial requests would be received by the PCU up to 6 months before the
estimaed closing date.
19.   The MSAS, in agreement with the Bank, can redefine the preeMblished municipal
financing ceflings based on the difference between the target populat  coveted under
apred subprojects and the needy populatib   who raay not have been read by these
subprojects. This can be done by rg  resources not alrdy allocated, after
ensuring that there is an adequate ca     to execute any additonal projects approved. The
FSC would routinely inform the provinces of any such allocations.
The Subproject Cyle
20.  When the PCU becomes operational, the two Secraries would ivite the prvinc  to
ident  subprojects for fiancing under the prposed project. Rep ves from the PCU
would visit all provinces that have eVressed interest and submited a report xpling the
implementtion and financing capacity that exs to cany out their suprjects. This report
would be prepared with respct to the project paiciaton crta, pecifng whether they
are able to undertake subproject formulation or require PCU's technical assistance for this
purpose. The provinces that have the capacity to ps a subproject would still be able to
receive spport from the PCU in its formulatio  After the proposals are received, the PCU
would analyze them in terms of the established eligibility crteria. If not all criteria are met,
the PCU would work with the prowvncial  prese tives to resolve any problems.
21.  After the subproject has met all tecal reqirment for aproal, the PCU would
initate the necessary adm ve actions for ftzdi. Pwvins would not be eligible to
submit proposals if by the end of the third project year they still lack the capacity to prepare
a subproject as specified in the eligibilty criteria, based on the evalhidon of the PCU.
Evaluation of Provincal Capacity to Inplement a Subproject
22.  The capacity of the provinces to implement subprojects would be based on exst
capacity in the following areas: (a) types of progams that exist simlDar to thos pposed
under the project; (b) capacity of local organizatns to plan and upvise eisting programs
in project areas; (c) quality, number, and experience of staff in local insttudons in the a
of planning and supervision; (d) experience within the last five years in execting programs
addressing the project requirements. For the latter, special atention will be given to:



-64-                                  AnniD
(a) avality of budgety resources that thmse indtons have had in the as five years;
(b) eisting procedu   fr admisttio of esources relative to actualm _anagemnt of
human, material, and financial resources; (c) reaiohip with the Mistiy/Seretazy of
Fiance and auditng and accounting bodies; and (d)  dated infomation In the provincial
proposals.
Crtra for Subproject Approval and cinadng
23.  For obtaining subprect financing, the pvinces ould meet the following ciateria
(a) subproject proposals should be related to the oveall ptojec in tems of objectives,
actvites, resources available, and adm ve o    on; and (b) the caacity and
agreemes of the prvincial and m  i  govem svolved to enmre  sa b.
Subproject Critrak
24.  Project Size. Subproects should be at lst municipl in scale: hence, at a minimum,
a network of health center that =faitate meetig the needs of the targe poulato in the
municipality.  Furtherr, coverg should extend to no ls tn 10,000 people. If there
are s    mui      e involved, then contguous munkicipais can combine to meet the
minimum coveag target. In both cases, the target popation mt be low-income goups
tat ue pubc heath and rlated fiities.
25.  Targeting. The operational defintion of the target populon is
municialite where the poor repesent at least 30 percent of the populat
26.  Org.                 subprojet sould involve onizatons that curTntly exi,
including pvincal, municpal, and non-govmental en. The PU shoud remain in
place for the duti  of the subproject, and is responsible for all laison with the PCU at the
national leveL This involve inersectorl and intrjursdictoal coodntin of the project
reaive to caiyig out its objectves and estblshing and confoming to project norms.
27.  I     a     I.h pvinces should develop ubprojec as ntegrted basic packages
iclding activities in the area of health and nutrton, and hopefuly in eary clbhood
devLopmeaL
28.  Moitoring. A moitoring sysem should be se up for wUpact actvities,
hnluding a system of accounts and auditg that at a  inimum inchludes the elements of the
project basic packas in a way to facilte the prcsing and flow of  n.



. _PRONCIAL OR         CONTROLLER
ACTIVITIES      SUPPLIERS    MUCPX          P.C .U. TIBUNAL VACIONAL
EXFCUTItn             Y PROVINCIAL DS
.               Xz~~UNT             CUZENTAiS
APPROVE SUBPROJECT.
SEZND STAARD BIm
DOCS.
PREPARE INDIVIDtAL
BIDS
INVITE SUPPLIERS
SUPPLIERS REC. BID
DOCS.
PR13SMGT OFFgR 
AAYZE3 AND AWARD
VERIFY AMWADS
SIGN CONTRACTS       a       .
ISSUE RESOLUTION                        -
SEND FOR REVIEW
APPROVE RESOLUTION
BEGIN EXCUTION      6                         -
REQUEST PAYMT
FOR ORDER
REvIEW PAYMENT
REQUEST           .           
PAY ORDER
PROGRESS REPORT                     0_ 



-66 -
AnnoC P
BASIC LUST OF PEREORMANCE NDICATORS
1.    A basic list of performance  dicora agreed at ngoan and
woU be used as a mnimumby         p      ua. p s   as qeit.d in to
agmemmb   Other indicato  to mont pwvlncia and municp
oj wd be chosen fiom the comp pMesive Hlt of pnoect
indighfcators detale In this annx dependin on the nturs of the
neentionstobefinanced.  eindiatinthebasdicHstwereseected on
the basis of te foowing citdua
1.      lODship  pbhyial resoucs and actvides inanced by
tbe Bank
2;    Abiity to smma die t    ults of another sere of ;niato
that are      sable for the monti  and ealuto of
actvides at each  vel ofi.
3.    Ability to provide an overiew of the degme of Implmeaion
and resul of the nadond program.
2.    Ihe basic montrn indicatr are:
MON1IORING OF SERVICE PROVIERS
1.       NO, hl       t  in do pn.mum                   Quately
Mal nber of health centers plhed
2.       NO,         _n  fo ld  in 98qmm                Quaterdy
TAal number of  d    ce        for cilr  planed
3.    NO_        _         In_mm__                      Quartedy
TD  nmbero   nexes pki*_d
4.       No.  ld dm ent centersn                         Annual
Tal number of child deelopme  cedt  paned
1. NF Ow    ose &M hsdla  mo,*= inbid  aid       whipm   co ul 0 with the
aommy nquhmnea% both pIy.icadioo nd pubp of sevice, wol be
emiMudgd    -            amb



-61-
PROCESS MON1ORtG
EQuawny
S.      NQ. pmgt womlen reitrd inte mm                 QUatly
No. of pgnant women in the aget 1poan
6.         NQ C naa               o                    Quarty
No. of prgnat wm    regisered in pm
7.      No. c        rg. in  am       a  gam           S -a
No. chidrean in tat popu n. by ag   p
8.    No. recovered malnourised cbdn, by age go14t
and bY degree of malnutrition                Semi-anm
NO. m           children In arget pplaton, by
g  gSoup and dege of mautrito
9.    No.  curg manouished chlden, by age goup
nd bg dee o    malfo                         Sem-
No. ml          cldren In  rp            by
ag  oup and dr  ofm
10.        No. Cd constations. bi ane m       _        Quatey
No of chldren regtrad in prpm, by ag group
3.    Ech one of these indicators would be detmined for each level of
implemenaion of the proyect munipal, provincal, national
2. APO gr: uer I yeur 1-2 ye, 3-5 Y
3. Pt oidi undr oe ye.



HULTh cOMPO9I         Swm             % II                        wbw es" W
~        I                   .dI It                       I _
P__   _d_ at_ t's"  obalwaftem  lb. 4t M ad_          d_                             Sbavi        v I$Ws i      tew   Tidm.d0 b
-  -                                                       -              pmgrm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o"by  pmpbugwu*oo
ujued iAt_N d kllib   3. et ba.p                 ".. 9 biapb b    bda  4d_  d          Aeua  l_ ldb                Tid_..dbie     Tom. .99    b
euwem       heubpomabv     p.  ppaa
A  Ip 49 sbilsl  Sb. .9 ibeb bob    Up. .9 ibmeb bob    bedN          ARWA PmauUt  3. .I.9i bib   Sb. dIib    Sb. 49 1ui be a
beft            ON"  pm US0     amol.                                             &vmtpmm         amdb p          pqpmbpemw
I  -                                                              W-               b               o   _
do _pm          Ted   d d.                                             aIS          -Ub          _ _slO-
abokb bob -ag                                    #6afdWfftp 9       ofa  db.dm ht *A  .9ldM  bO
dw pFd4  _ w_d   4d a"ed pm    I" 1aeaSp*w u
Md i s n9   d U     Nof4 awsl bob    Sb. d9 maui bob    .sd amem   Am"* aip    No.49aimd bob    ML. d9 Or* bb    OL no. .9    bob
.s _wd_    t*d  _   id_ba        Ope                                  vib _             lb_      ___ sd
=|_zZ*IL,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sodl _1                               by   ft to_ o    o
OaUI 49st pe   o.4at pigobd bob   NO.4 dWitI bob    SMd omm        A-ip        W40adgm.bed.   N.de padwb bob   No. dsaw*bi
bdo  indGo_ pm lobM                                                                  by Jgbpmdi.
of  ida ds pb*A-S                                                                 emeU*            -S
-"    9.wa.vmo    VWutdsdm "mas                  b.dkmeban   fIL       6 dMuw    USb d d
au                                               fSem,*                                           a
d_i It_llt            d_           1ib_                                   _               _       b-p
.                                                        M                                                                          .
S ~~~~~drem~~~~~~Go&.~ ~ ~ ~



N*ANCOW43$W                                                             ISh3EUS0IW
tad@ of CM                                                  I Nnosm               P  Aamp.                   *      usupmu b,hii
~~ -. ad ~~~pd         Nb ela -so*      W& of gamaliss    Ikiassmss ineatme  om*n* aa* hkua b            t    himbv    fkm  hiss by
bi udusdtsed  .~im      kiss. aintsmelw hi    is                                         GU"el          ff"*Wf          -it
way 14dOrn b                                                          3143a       -  .1xUNbO   ___ o
l b.  --           asLd -                       sum
heiiyai     Nbf at dkoV& boon    Nb. do abei. kim    Ibsg Moambr   smdguad   O6Pbym. iby sum   "3aL ~by     abop.hisby
absassUam   Oua5el l am w.  wsin             -ul          -                               ls
_wmabdmm                        dtm                              tN WARM._      ___ 3143f.5   __xstbLd
bdo 16mebias~ 640q.                                         sums             wavmpbyw$-      mpbyws
__m_ __m -       A N1a_ -                                                         _. -                            _
_ S             0    ban     ewm _s by m                                                      tl_da    O
dew"" fars 25W0    Nb UMAtes hissdihshiwa  Uy #k0.  byou
1Il*   _b                        I_ ad bb    I4*pwV-*  4100~
agiupumhumalS.q-                                                             --y             ^-      -
_ w _       li~~womd__t-                                                                     dftb*AWb _ _ _M ftd_  Otta_ _ "   _ *
*AOfte NNV                   66 1wa^_ b"0    ".                              b d wxn%-       lb,#hl    lK whXt
.                _11W~~~~~~~~~~~~|  o abi_hdmo                                                     _bOu4mb        _t *Ff/WI"
aim"ad Wd hUSa  ftsse.d bi      aSs ad          lowAmm. mul - dd kiMry.  WA   amewhbo
w_ _ idm _ bwuv  u-- hi_                                         wsm*           bk   *"         wads_
_ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ bd __                           ON" by    :-dob_t.    tkoloodw*_
ass 
.. *   .       _    _         ___~sahi ssu    _mba             _ _a                           waSm            _S       S      _
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W2- P.t9js -- -
Nb .5 usabbw                                    -                  _             _y
stem~........                                                         ._  I.     .  



,~ ~ ~ CTt                                                                                    bim, ,uqu ,,_,  a_ 
WAT"                                                          I                  WOOIIssVfBum
tmd of t. bO. see                       e bur IF,      useewu                            was                            peoo  b w
P d at..                                               -_                                              *
A       oAlkwo b*A Om      of pmmIeekm a,wi.e,
~~~~a~ _la bh                   web .Zl                                       _m              _u                _
ewm e ab4jp                                                                          -               -       m
-                                                               em-_- w *_ *      _
br            OO -_ -d           baba            _ __n                _ta.i.eia -euuia _rnaa4  _                          n
o-                                                               a l                        _
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e _a,.
i_w _dm       _e atumu   U Nd _/_ au imduO _             _Ur                    jup.. _ a_       bmp. _a _    ?sm a   _~
""-m                  odLewamowl USmIes*a AIU                                       im*mpwVb..rU*U*4Upoo    A- -O t M
.          -    ~            _      _        -               -                  ~~-pwrn  -                   -*
OWA& *an   o owd*u9man b   N..wA Upqnwin                                          wbwSyot"S                 __sumw    o
ibm                                              -     s bads_  a ,ttsl               _s
T     dd  A   btby - e
SOginms     Ne~M at pwtinmI so  Ulopmowassfe   bibnoo Weemi       bap         N.P.mru           . dp4 id          dpwu u
emaed           bprin ,          mib bai                                          Om_  _i hib _ww m
__10  ie a _.a                                             -Run w__o _______
too" umbdrn                                       dEinmm'I by   mo.dwammbhr      .durnbib
_ w          _                                               _4~~ _ww b_w lo
wS0p.a,         11146speow     4S0euum#  
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o                                       -6140 _   f" wh# _   S   >
ofsue    byua    baA. o4f dom"  Me.bibNei w                         Iu eMmJd     .- moadbo    Itaf rAmelf    nto"
CM esdaWAr      sods be"s           M~  dwk4"                                     deSqe  55*M. M  SmOaqe ofl5 I    baqeo d U* b
M bosc I_ -       se.bd                 --                                          -               -i_-  b _   s
SiAm bCOCe bUrn                                  lob *Wd         foewwS         TesS lmabndd-
.5*,f*CS@ abpt    ma cace      bc i    br
.~                 Mv 1-



9'  0    p-            -
ill  !Igi  1lf    ! tI
i Ii  Xi  'I I  I    I  *
IL i   Ii  Ii  i IL-
ii I id U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i  l
I     ~~~~~~~~~iI   It  I
I  ~~~~i I'
I   ~1'  *.1   I 
lIlt  lai  apl! It  4 ii'' 
1    III   * 't~~~ILI



IM*Th COWOUEf                                    US~~~~~~~~FICUSMATOAS
laud Cu.   j       ~GA1US                                                  Vwqep                          qNi -bvd
.. ~~~~~~~~I  D                                                       ..-., _I  f  I ,_ -A~
A_w_  _ X      i_ _             D i_   ~~~              ~     ~~0*mm*_  Mu i        _    sd' presmu
pbW DPupsAq   wbujwsvw.                                                   - I -%Nus. 5, sbams~ub
__  ibpqain   Na. el p~ mm.l.   lbU                                         m* _a So     6 _ _  _ lN
w.mmhs PIWNi  kg....  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~IMNa. de11ear1s            a USpwA   Npadtpw m
kUWAm d soft    okubwolonad                  uav*       Weldfpupm teawi Na. . piLlmoApus  aem*g-aitm
_d_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*O                                   --__td_   _ XtM
mt40 b__ ,s eItl g.,                                                    UIS*
..al ,ugd sUbA                                             Al64 _S      h_
waskma                           Na.ddbmba. ~~~~~~~"&VO"ddbw kNa   -b.dhmhum
ba dis    Na em.e             Wad_t         0*_ _iOib                     NbdIb         NbdUaS    Na d          _
Ni    _        dbm5,qBwS    tl_eO             _-_W                                       __         
GAON   dftkm b           k                                        Na W  a0 kN    NA.ddNamNa  N. .d      k
d So"  at *NW d owl~~~~~~~~~~                       .5euUofMbins*v   u5,gmaa
" m  g    D  ,,s. _   w  
M L_ b d " _ S  d al m     bw   so           aC i   U S                      si b
_ _d so" of g _ -db.ba -___ _ib                                         w     6wo
mp dgbuim    e.Isod DM     mu*'e AM'     .inmd.                                            I Nvas,    MinAn,
_Wtle*_w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~XA                               MAs -  _       _-
We abe Sg momrns  ui
Na*_ d dd*bam5,q.                           NdWdb         sb        a __sibDo
^__d_"  But_#        ^u - bbs.                                    5,sm9          Nadbeb       Nadlu,b
-                                              -  ' S
q.



sm"inWk~i-Im        AO"-        M -em                                         em.sq
-I.I..~ Pg    p emw
somueaftem   &Iup-hqm              qe                                               e          Om opi
_q    _W4@ -_4-  AsWu u_p
""i Iqem    *w"pinAqe            emhq em       ep ompe                       q"pm   p milmooq -l-             AmPq
wlo '    ^_as mw              qmmEop 'oo
_~~~~MNIIPI 4-              o -4-                                                -    wq-4-_p
_^_ _~~~~gt -a",-_,   _ d
F X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mw mwm l0Sqw 
mu"aw       A**-q-p           aiM44                                           u      mi4op   skem
eewmeSIqeu       a b"_4       pqas5qem-                                         of -   q" 1ipo e-
q4da  pigme   siig    oe simp isp              Spwnim.qA                       apqlmmoot      ""AgP%u       w"wd
vosm44s    _ tW- "^,__ %                                                    -*- Mt                              _
-.SWN"P    AIqeine-   PW@u  pP"                                                    gm
_^_ q"_~W141000_                                         _4 @- 
empeeSiqem    IW4*nAqe         peogIAem                                             em      sken adem
PWMOM            WNf o"_W _pwt      noP            _lom           -t40A plw"                     _PWi              __
sompavolte   'amq&q_m
qqmjrsppm Aqmpm.aqem    aeq.*Sqpp.                                                 em
me 'b a.'ax                                                                                      Owe*".m  ewmw .
evAssu      Apk4_ _              _f 4m __tR-q-
dqem    *~~~~~~&~~em.           wm miqem                        eoppm          ein  em    "*PNPo              ipmp
p.  pigimee  .pufa    .           g                                                       IVO=                                 eme .  , .  o
. p s pq p   sqs pa p          p                 '



Aq amupad      a.ug.d  A*  a-
.. u       ~     ' .                                                                                    ISD3
Aw4wA-                                              90*040~~~~ A" Al
-*"AqAopA. Amp o           -0 AmP                                A ad -W.M*if'  ad ,                           eso   WU
ofteo4.paq   £qoompwwm          Po of
_^" 44fJ woop"    SOd_ WRWO                                                                                           t_
*. ~   m _4    ^____.
___      __*          q~~~____                                                                                .,mm
____-          - a _q 4__           .                                       - 
ON. A-0   umS 4q u-m           MmAP. Am D3ouowmapm
-  uw_p           p            _    _A4 I a    p                           - WUPnpUa e         Wm
in oe e.p.a      a* ...                                                                  - nqa  i  qibp-S.
_^_lp _ _                  _^_                                                     ___  qup~pm--   -   
__e_Z           *_Aqp     _*      _                            _ gmu                       _
Iqpmq         Aqm 40poo-    Aq p.up I eq
PWo_        _ o_*             t Sax
* _41iapa    rq__p            pequp
W _-         -    _ W_-        -_                                                            Po"
poo&"InpI Iqu                    vs.bIquw                                       sep.m
O  uO S     paWO"om     4 p.s a"pm                                asMGAI-WO P-... apSW  aq indl   aplwwm
~b4qm*Uu    aq~           £mj pmWm                                   omwp= pm        qpm 
aqp~upmit   aqS*mf ia    aqpem .    440~wmp          inU Ain   3m   - --.m   Ai pk mpa o*wammp
__w_~~~4"M MA,   *-pft                      0w __qp __ow               _ft_ VA__  btwdt
on"            __=            _* I                                               I_         __pw  I
_^^  _J^          _1"^_           _           _     _       w __             _^_swhft



0.  L aw                     Wbo~m csumuo rm
.wausVg~~~~~~~~~~~  1'                                 b.1bIsua~~~~afmot      PWW.  1 bIkftb
~~~~~~~~~-:
_lm_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tp*f   U"r                .           "4dpde
.m~m ~  ~   u~ .ab  ~                              ~                          -      _bmg, 
_"   _t           f               W_l~m~gus'                                  W    *bb __e mm*_W.
_-  -
___               USI    Nb        _ UWbpwa                    d_ u__bp  U ja.                        1_ SI.^ja    gtu    TZ U Ob
_W*__    w   1l,_2'1tb*  _  bpass 
_wdt           Wd=Aw  b_ _* _dmm                 41__w     v wAf           fdpow  _   6^d  _            & ia _nW
Wtl        _t~ewmb*Aw    _OAb _bPA
-*b
hNIM~~
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ppb                                                          .
IL      __b______'



I
uAAqw4w4 -1 - 
P  __l_P4    owmap p    P00MIP p         Ron04apu                 Pp                    Ur WgoW   n  WAweO
604d         A AU *d .A*
-*"~&Nww%q  iow q w: Gott$w ;uuauq                                       'bgpqaq
Ma-         so- ap  _                                       _P '__t"
sqJ£        ,q . *                GM                                             Owto. __  ._ 1" w  W_  p .       :
g~~~~~ww SX-       plP           ZX                                     __P_m
Sq " so    -                                                                           __ms    *q*"$ftbg
It4_          4 _-        t_-                                          __4PWNG1     d-_          -1
-__   -_      p.    pm*'.
#                          mu #o pus Lmauq                                            ug-
pA    _     pa_epup-      pa sinA-            _sppa 4Spp  *ntm_gmU
4_ a.piit         4q_8p^    ^ ^ _
PO OlW 0 t   po_wWtpl       __^^mol       V_we       fMW*1WNo        P _"-_I PI"*t  POSONO         _WM4-a         4P _
atm anuw       60'-,4p     *Ap na~
Sqin      SqoPitMa  muq
04MmP -      &  AP""       moo" aPmomi                                        S      pp_ _  _pq_moa
pisaep.i    Pv O P40       PUI PO INWO  .PinDPU    VW=n us0004  WPOPION                           aS -t*m       WIMPA
a""                       $**APW                                              i      -     ±I 
I_                               .UUq_A  iSUfdiWGU



t" St dns               smdm                                                       R.,*           gaim.                     W
W- m            NI6R -.                                                                         I
cww %boo *I  hime I         d=.tW 600    a*.       uc sn"                                   dmoe           lioasosemo
z_c_~~~~~~~~~ul a h  I f                a                                               - _t_oWdI&
sb~~ummI  WdI  aI                                                               bye.s*e.I b d  Owebria
-- ~     d *       rtt.-a                                          --                   U.. dhu  .mu    U.d*,.U        U.uIU 
__ _             _~d   tNX                                                     _-10
one*iO          leto                                             h.ibfami   06mo bAsby            86-  y
V~~ sleds  is~~~usUV      mU.. d.ve d a      Ud                                           b mU  . U sads U.msUvmS U. aau d
=bb  4mn"atof        fl"-  s bmeinIS*i   01sca                           ou*  M*       "161-    odbSb  al t    wb        o ya
dmV _oks                                                            -    W          ml --            _810
am_ F_menv                                       bdinm           U. 4 - _  _    bm mV _
I 0s h_          tosb_ umt                                       6MWd bU.            *"aby       a by
-                                                U__. U0 I_ _bblu  MdUOleb#
W*Ar~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i



-78-
Annex 
SurlkVZION PLAN
liming             StaffWeeks                   Staffng
CY1993             10 (Project Launchl
(Second Half)      Appraisal of Subpoject)
-Task Manag  (4 week)
-EN Speciai  (2 wees)
-Opewations Speciali (2 wee)
-Other (2 weels)
CY1994             33 (Supeision/
App.ail of Subprects)
-Task Manager (15 weelm)
-EN Specalsts (6 week)
-Opwaions Specialig (4 week)
-other.
MIS Specalist (4 week)
Early Chiood Deveoment
Specaist (2 week)
Adiistration(2 weeks)
CY1995             30 (Supervi
Appaisal of Subpts)
-Task Maar (13 weeks)
-EN Speiaists (6 weeks)
-Opeaaions Spedalist (4 weeks)
-Other
MrS Specalst (3 week)
Eary Childood Devlopmet
specalt (2 week)
AdminIstrat (2 week)



eo         m          Ct 
XI        (I         U)          g
_z6§Xt        K%Wg   tgg
Ig1XAA IXAAf IX                    lilt



- 80-
Annex H
DOCUIEENTS IN PROJECT'S WORKING FILE AND GENERAL FILE
A. Technical Annexes. The below listed documents were prepared by the World Bank
preparation team on the basis of reports presented by the PCU during pre-appmisal and
appraisal missions. These documents are part of a Technical Anmexes Volume In the
Projects' Working File.
Annex A. Vital Statistics
Annex B. Overview of Provincial and Municipal Service Isues
Annex Cl. Basic Health Services Packge
Annex C2. Matemal and Child Nutrition
Annex D. Early Childhood Development Component
Annex El. Training Plan
Annex E2. Information Systems
Annex E3. Social Communicaton
Annex E4. Reo ion of Schools Feeding Progams
Annex Fl. Terms of Reference for National Nutrition Survey
Annex 12. Terms o& Reference for Impact Evaluadon Studies
Annex F3  Terms - f Reference for Evaluation of National Food Supplemention Program
B. General Documents. The below listed documents were prepared by the Project
Prepamtion Unit of the Argentine Ministry of Health and Social Action with the support of
UNICEF. These documents constitute the overall project proposal.
B1. Documents Related to Project Component (in the Project's Geneal Pile).
Documento Final del Proyecto.
Anexo  1. Estadisticas Vitales
Anexo 2. Organizaci6n de los Sistemas de Salud
Anexo  3. Actividades de Nuticidn
Anexo 4. Servicios de Atenci6n Primaria
Anexo 5. El Programa Materno Infantil y el Financiamento Disponble
Anexo  6. La Organizci6n de los Servicios de Atenci6n Primaria y
Gerenciamiento
Anexo 7. El Paquete Bdsico de Salud
Anexo  8. Evaluacidn de la Infresae ctura Existente
Anexo  9. Hospital Local de Referencia
Anexo 10. Reformulacion de los Programas de Comedores Escolares
Anexo 11. Desarrollo Integral de los Preescolares
Anexo 12. Procedimiento de Compra de Alimentos
Anexo 13. Capacitaci6n
Anexo 14. Comunicaci6n Social
Anexo 15. Sustentabilidad del Proyecto
Anexo 16. Organizaci6n y Gesti6n del progmma



- 81 -
Ane
Ane=o 17. Sistema de Monitoreo y Rvaluaci6n
Anexo 18. Investigaciones Operacionales
Anexo 19. Definici6n y CAIculo del Tamao de la Poblacin Otbedvo
Apence 1. Caxacteristicas de la Pobreza
Apendice 2. Salud Escolar
Apendice 3. Antecedentes Sobre Evaluacd  del   d Nuticional
Apendice 4. La Compa y Distxibuci6n de Alimento
Apendice 5. Especificaciones Sobre Calidad de lcs AlUieots
Apendice 6. Especiflcaciones Sobre Requeimieto de Plego pan la
Compra de Alimentos
Apendice 7. Descripci6n del Trabajo de Campo
Apendice 8. Instrumentos de Recolecci6 do Idb=ai6n
Apendice 9. Antecedentes       a        y Ped
de Cargos doe las Unidades Ejecutom
Apendice 10. Listdos de Menues y Opciones de Dosaymo
Apendice 11. Composicid6n Nutricional de las Listas de Comidas
Apendice 12. la Mortafldad Infantil y la Pobreza
.Apendice 13. Metodologfa par la Esdmacidn de Coss
B. PROJECT INpL?EMNTATION MANUALS (in the Project's. Geo=l PMe)
1. Organizaci6n pam la Ejecuci6n del Proyecto
2. Manual de Normas Contables del Pzoyecto
3. Auditoria del Proyecto
4. Compras y Contraciones del Proyecto
5. Manual dePpresupuesto y Anexo
6. Mana do Opemciones
7. Subsistema de Efectores
8. Evaluaci6n de las Finanzas Pblicas de Ias Iuridiccioies P as



IRD 24782
)870+       BOLIVIA                   60                                       50
TUCumAN CHACOBAI
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~
\~~ ~~ OJ                        A 4TAA       x5   
so'                                                                                              3
/    Ssl       j_ _            MAERN9.CHLO  HALT
40'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
~~~~~~~~~Poet Povnes   ' 
SaencedPovnetaitl
Naioa   Cpia
LUIS                                                    PIroiceBonare
\~~~~~~~~~MLS   10  2   30  400  500 
t    0+0                  1                              dURUGUAY        0
u    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ILMTR                          0       0        00     0
O0                                                                    TIs . op  s bw   rpas 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
S0           |0                .    _ UEGOS AIRESso
/     M~~~ENl>O                            LO lP   %       
p                            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P
u                                           8 J   .    |  BUENOS  1
te   t   \_- |        L~~~LA          AIRES  
N  NEU                                            N A  R G  E N  T I N  A
)               ROO                 J         ATERNAL,CHILD HEALTH
_4ov 0 / NEGRO + ~~~~~~~~~~~~~NUTRITION  PROJECT                                   40.
< ~~~~~~~~~~Pro ject Provinces
t7              /                  qk~~~~~~~~ Selected Province Capitals
2   ;  ~~CHUBUT                              (A   N ational Copitul
6         g                    _~~~~~~m-   Province Boundaries
9  rt  6  <                           ~~~~~International Boundaries
d            2                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES 0    100  2     300  400   Boo
dS~     ~S  N TA                                         I                 ------ I
2sr~~ ~ w   CUZ                       KlLOMETeR5S 0     200    400    600    Soo
\          /            ~~~~~~FALKLANDISL05ANDS
i;7                        ~~~~~~~(MALVINSA)
(  Z   \                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~exd     for 1he corn_e
¢;1 \    5~~~t   -  r.nesvrt coNict(mo SOVEMlG4r, onrg "I  of tedr$  ond is for 1
V /Sg~~~~r" MA.& *.d*Zwte<>r                             boundariesNw8l¢(a  s¢tow
\oG' top  h  rHE *St^NOS                   t * ~~on fis ndo Eoti, an th
,oort of   Wodsd 8q rou nwA
C   ~~~~  Tl~E R RA                        enosie or occephneo
D EL                          such bovndres.
so'                     70'         FUEGO    60°                        S0
APRIL 1 f92



