Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20905
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(36430; 3643A; 3643S)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100.0 MILLION
TO THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR A MATERNAL AND CHILD HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
September 29, 2000
Country Management Unit for Argentina, Chile and Uruguay
Human Development Sector Management Unit
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Argentine Peso (AR$)
AR$1.00 = US$ 1.00
US$ 1.00 = AR$1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January I through December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CDI                        Centro de Desarrollo Infantil (Child Development Center)
GDP                        Gross Domestic Product
GNP                        Gross National Product
ICR                        Implementation Completion Report
IDB                        Inter-American Development Bank
MCH/N                      Maternal and Child Health/and Nutrition
MoH                        Ministry of Health
MIS                        Management Information Systems
NGO                        Non-Governmental Organization
Obras Sociales             Social Health Insurance Funds (linked to workers' place of employment)
PCU                        Project Coordination Unit
PROMIN                     Programa Salud Materno-Infantil y Nutrici6n (Matemal and Child
Health and Nutrition Program
UCP                         Unidad de Coordinaci6n del Proyecto (Project Coordination Unit)
UEP                         Unidad Ejecutora Provincial (Provincial Executing Unit)
UEM                         Unidad Ejecutora Municipal (Municipal Executing Unit)
UNDP                       United Nations Development Program
UNICEF                     United Nations Children's Fund
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Director:  Myrna Alexander
Sector Director  Xavier Coll
Task Team Leader    Ruth Levine



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Implementation Completion Report
Argentina Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           I
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              10
6. Sustainability                                                                  11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    13
8. Lessons Leamed                                                                  16
9. Partner Comments                                                                 18
10. Additional Information                                                         26
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               35
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  36
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              37
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                38
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                              41
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P006025                                      Project Name: MTNAL CHILD HLTH & N
Team Leader: Evangeline Javier                           TL Unit: LCSHD
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) o ICR           Report Date: September 29, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: MTNAL CHILD HLTH & N                          L/C/TF Number: 36430; 3643A; 3643S
Country/Department: ARGENTINA                                           Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector. HT - Targeted Health
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD: 01/17/92                                 Effective: 09/30/93          10/27/93
Appraisal:  03/08/93                                 MTR. 06/05/97             04/15/98
Approval: 08/03/93                                Closing: 12/31/2000          03/31/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: Government of Argentina/Ministry of Health
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      David De Ferranti                        Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Myma L. Alexander                         Ping Cheung Loh
Sector Manager:      Xavier E. Coll                           Julian F. Schweitzer
Team Leader at ICR:  Evangeline Javier                        Jose Andreu
ICR Primary Author:  Ruth E. Levine
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL-Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time:
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The US$100 million PROMIN I investment loan, signed in August 1993, was designed to
support the Government of Argentina in strengthening maternal and child health and nutrition, as
well as early child development services for poor populations; improving the organizations
involved in the delivery of these programs; and strengthening decentralization of decision-making



and management in the participating provinces and municipalities. Under the project, health
promotion, disease prevention and child development activities were aimed at reducing infant and
maternal mortality and illness, and improving cognitive outcomes among young children in poor
urban communities. The project sought to directly benefit approximately 500,000 low-income
women and children living in urban areas, representing about 18 percent of the reproductive-age
women and children under 6 in households below the poverty line.
In the early 1990s, as the first freestanding health and nutrition investment lending operation
in Argentina and one of the earliest operations of any kind in the human development sector in the
country, PROMIN I responded to both Borrower and Bank demands for attention to the social
sectors as a complement to macroeconomic adjustment. Improving health conditions and child
development in poor, urban families was considered a key strategy in the effort to reduce
disparities in social welfare and intergenerational transmission of poverty in Argentina. The
design was prepared primarily by a technical tearn from UNICEF, based on their
contemporaneous framework for maternal and child health, nutrition and child development. As
part of an effort to support decentralized decision making, the original design took the form of a
set of criteria and eligible expenses, under which provinces were to propose subprojects.
The design of PROMIN I followed a long-standing pattern of investing in public sector
inputs-infrastructure, supplies, training, information systems and others-to achieve improved
health and education outcomes. While following the traditional "supply-side" approach, the
PROMIN I design incorporated notable innovations: First, combining health and education
activities in one operation was a new concept. Second, PROMIN I was geographically targeted
to reach women and children in poor neighborhoods, rather than the general population. Third,
within Argentina's complex federal structure, it sought to tailor investments to provincial and
municipal contexts, leaving substantial room for local adaptations of the PROMIN model.
Fourth, it incorporated resources for rigorous monitoring and evaluation, with the aim of
generating data for better programmatic decision making.
The PROMIN I project included a multitude of specific activities, as described below.
However, the original concept of the project can only be understood by viewing those activities as
part of a comprehensive package. For PROMIN I to be fully successful, individuals at national,
provincial, municipal and point-of-service levels had to act in a synchronized manner, and a
significant cultural shift had to occur on the part of both service providers and families. To
achieve the anticipated health improvements, the PROMIN model of care, or modelo de atenci6n,
required not simply that basic maternal and child health and nutrition (MCHN) services be
expanded and improved, but that old ways of doing business be put aside, and that a large and
coordinated set of social communication, outreach, education and monitoring activities be put into
place. Pregnant women and mothers of young children from poor families had to view health
promotion activities available at health centers-for example, prenatal care and well-child care-
as valuable and responsive to their needs. To achieve better child development outcomes, the
PROMIN concept necessitated that both government institutions and parents accept the idea that
the well-being of very young children is enhanced when they are cared for in clean, stimulating,
healthful publicly-financed institutions.
-2 -



3.2 Revised Objective:
Not Applicable
3.3 Original Components:
PROMIN I financed activities in three components, as described below (ref Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR), pp 23 ff). It was expected that activities would occur. in 16
municipalities in six provinces, using an average of US$16 million per province. The original
provinces-Buenos Aires, C6rdoba, Entre Rios, Mendoza, Santa Fe and Tucuman-were not
characterized by high levels of poverty, but rather by large urban populations and therefore the
potential to reach many poor neighborhoods. At the time of appraisal, the Florencio Varela
subproject in the Province of Buenos Aires had been designed in detail as a model. The other
subprojects were to be designed during implementation, and were to meet certain criteria
established in the SAR, including: a minimum of 30 percent of the population below the poverty
line ("unsatisfied basic needs"); fiscal and administrative capacity; political commitment; and
willingness to sign an agreement with the Ministry of Health regarding project execution and
incremental transfer of financial responsibilities to local sources.
Because the subprojects were not designed at the start of the program, neither specific
funding amounts nor quantitative targets were assigned to the separate components. Rather,
approximately US$123 million were to be devoted to the subprojects (or 77 percent of the total
US$160 million (US$100 million loan plus US$60 million counterpart) operation); approximately
US$17 million (or  1 percent) of the project was to be dedicated to institutional strengthening, in
the form of studies, social communication and technical assistance; and the remaining resources
were to be devoted to administration and contingencies.
Component 1: Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition. The operation financed expansion,
refurbishing, equipping and/or re-equipping of existing health facilities; hiring additional health
and management staff, generic drugs and supplies; and food supplements. While seeking to make
the health center the main locus of service delivery for basic MCH/N services, this component
also supported the expansion and improvement of maternity wards in overcrowded urban public
hospitals, and the establishment of a functioning referral system for high-risk pregnancies and
complicated deliveries. These inputs were intended to support delivery of a basic package of
services consisting of (a) women's reproductive and child health care; (b) food supplementation
for undemourished pregnant and lactating women and children under 6 years of age; and (c)
health and nutrition education and promotion.
Component 2: Early Childhood Development Component. PROMIN I intended to transform
existing feeding programs for children (comedores infantiles) and kindergartens into child
development centers (Centros de Desarrollo Infantil, or CDI) in which children ages 2-5 in urban
slum areas would benefit from exposure to educational materials, toys, and the attention of trained
early childhood educators and volunteers (Community Education Promoters, or Promotoras), as
- 3 -



well as from food supplementation. It was anticipated that there would be coordination between
Components 1 and 2, so that all children participating in CDIs would also benefit from growth
monitoring, and from high quality well- and sick-child care in PROMIN-supported health centers
in their neighborhoods.
Component 3: Institutional Strengthening. This component covered a wide range of activities at
municipal, provincial and national levels, including training, information systems, social
communication, technical assistance for reorganizing school feeding programs, and studies. All of
these were intended to support either direct service delivery or coordination at each of the three
relevant administrative and political levels.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not formally revised during the execution of the operation.
However, changes were introduced in the geographic scope, scale of the subprojects and content
of the interventions. Specifically, in 1995, 7 additional provinces were given financial support,
and a new type of activity called "expanded technical assistance projects" were offered to
provinces that did not meet the original eligibility criteria. The expansion in geographic coverage
resulted in a decrease in the size of subprojects, relative to what had originally be anticipated
(from an average of US$16 million per subproject to $6.6 million approved and $4 million
executed). During that period, in response to increased demand and based on a generally positive
sense of the implementation of PROMIN I, a new $100 million loan, PROMIN II, was developed
to expand the PROMIN model. PROMIN II was approved in 1995. PROMIN II was designed
before many PROMIN I activities had been started, but its approval was contingent on
disbursement of 50 percent of PROMIN I. Some PROMIN II funds were devoted to the same
areas as those covered by PROMIN I, and some were used to expand the program to new
locations. In most provinces, subprojects have been simultaneously financed by PROMIN I and
PROMIN II. As discussed in Section E, the existence of PROMIN II may have affected the sense
of urgency afforded the question of financial sustainability; it also gives the Bank and the
Borrower an immediate opportunity to leam from experience.
Three other significant changes were made in the project. First, in 1993, the Ministry of
Education extended its formal education policy to cover children age 5 years; therefore, the Early
Childhood Development component expanded its focus on younger children. Second, during
execution the Borrower and the Bank agreed to reprogram funds that had originally been
allocated for a set of national studies. Third, in 1996 the original training methodology of
workshops, meetings and courses was changed to supervisi6n capacitante, in which local
consultants, or facilitators, provided on-the-job instruction, within the work setting.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory. In addressing an important problem (maternal and child wellbeing) and a key
population (poor mothers and children), PROMIN scores high.  In the technical work
underpinning the design and the comprehensiveness of its interventions, PROMIN represented the
best of the then-current thinking about optimal delivery of care to mothers and children through
government facilities.
-4 -



PROMIN I's design limitations lie primarily in two areas: First, the nutrition interventions
were based on the belief that acute undernutrition was a serious problem in Argentina-a
diagnosis that may not have been accurate at the time of design, and did not reflect conditions
during implementation of the operation. Second, the child development component of the
operation did not have a secure institutional home at the start, and few provisions were made to
ensure that early childhood education, as conceptualized under PROMIN I, would be accepted by
provincial Ministries of Education or other entities that could sustain it.
One feature of PROMIN I's design that affected its performance is that it did not include
interventions or policy changes intended to change the fundamental motivations and "rules of the
game" underlying the behavior of public officials, individuals providing health and child
development services, or members of poor households. In particular, no changes were introduced
in the remuneration for services, labor markets, or in facility-level autonomy that could reinforce
changes in provider behavior. To some observers, this represented a wise tactic, or at least a
necessary one given the recent entry of the Bank into the health sector, the complexity of
federal-provincial interactions in Argentina, and the considerable turnover at the political levels
within the Ministry of Health. By requiring few difficult transformations-and thereby facing
little or no opposition-PROMIN I was permitted to execute quickly, and served as a smooth
introduction of the Bank into the Argentine health sector and an opportunity to improve services
for poor mothers and children. Subsequently, a range of other operations have supported health
insurance and public hospital reforns.
Other observers believe that the lack of large-scale changes in the organization and
financing of government health services jeopardizes the long-term continuation of the
improvements in service delivery that were sought (and largely achieved) under PROMIN I. It is
argued that health workers have no more motivation after PROMIN I than they did before the
program to develop effective outreach programs, use information for decision making, or provide
high quality care, although they may have the training, equipment and infrastructure to do so.
Fundamental changes in provider behavior may require profound reforms of the sector.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Satisfactory. The PROMIN I operation performed well, yielding important and visible
improvements in infrastructure and in the operation of health and child development services in
some of the most disadvantaged urban areas of the country. Making funds available to provinces
for infrastructure and other improvements in the delivery of services induced greater attention to
MCH/N and child development, to the benefit of poor populations. Measurable improvements can
be seen in the delivery of core maternal and infant health services, particularly in terms of
respectful and regular care; at the same time, more opportunities became available for children in
poor neighborhoods to be cared for in clean environments that provided at least a minimum level
of nutritious food and psychosocial stimulation during the day. These are described in more detail
in the sections that follow.
-5 -



Despite these successes, questions can be raised about the extent to which the
improvements will be maintained. As described in more detail in Section 6, in some jurisdictions
there is limited potential for institutional and financial sustainability, particularly for the child
development centers, which do not fit neatly into either health or education sectors. In addition,
PROMIN I (as implemented, though not as designed) missed important opportunities for program
improvement through monitoring and evaluation.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A.    Component 1: Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition. The main objectives for this
component were in the realm of physical improvements and institutional development. Strictly
speaking, the institutional development objectives of this component (as well as of the Early
Childhood Development component) should be covered under the Institutional Strengthening
component, which included all training, social communication and outreach funding. However,
for ease of understanding, conclusions about these aspects of institutional strengthening are
included in discussion of the substantive components.
With respect to physical improvements, the operation is judged to be highly satisfactory.
Some 195 health centers were rehabilitated, 75 health centers were built, and 8 maternity wards in
hospitals were rehabilitated. Field visits during execution, as documented in supervision reports,
indicate that the quality of the construction met or exceeded minimum standards. The average
unit costs for civil works fell slightly below the Argentine average for Bank operations.
With respect to institutional development-changes in health service management and
health provider practice patterns-the operation is judged to be satisfactory. Approximately
1,922 health care providers were trained under the project, many using the supervisi6n
capacitante methodology, which is widely viewed as effective. Supervision reports, the
Borrower's Informe General de Cierre, and participants in the stakeholders' workshop indicated
that visible improvements in MCH care provided at PROMIN-supported health centers included:
introduction of an appointment system for patients, reduced waiting time for prenatal visits in
many health centers; increased systematization of the content of pre- and postnatal care, and
well-child care; development and maintenance of clinical histories for all patients; physical
separation of sick and well patients at health centers; greater attention to standardized protocols
for MCH care; and some progress on the difficult issues of greater delegation from physicians to
nurses and improved referral and counter-referral between health centers and hospitals. In
addition, there is evidence that the project had a positive effect outside of its target areas. In six
jurisdictions (Jujuy, Moreno, Jose C. Paz, Parana and C6rdoba) training activities of PROMIN
influenced non-PROMIN facilities and staff.
While recognizing the achievements of PROMIN I in transforming the delivery of basic
health services, it is important to acknowledge that the project fell short in areas that were
essential to the comprehensive PROMIN modelo de atenci6n. First, the project did not foster the
intended level of community outreach-i.e., health care workers actively seeking out pregnant
women and infants to assess their needs and provide care. Second, the project did not succeed at
stimulating the use of information for decision making about the delivery of services at the facility
- 6 -



level. In addition to these shortcomings, the project did not implement the family planning
counseling and related services foreseen in the design of PROMIN I.
Positive process indicators have been seen in four mature subprojects (Rosario, Florencio
Varela, Mendoza and Parana) that received only PROMIN I funds: in all, improvements can be
seen in obstetric coverage, pediatric coverage and early prenatal attention (see Annex 1 for
definitions). For example, in Mendoza, obstetric coverage increased from 15 to 58 percent
between the start and the close of PROMIN I. Pediatric coverage increased from 23 to 55
percent. And early prenatal attention (captaci6n temprana) increased from 24 to 68 percent.
Similar gains are seen in the other subprojects (ref Informe General de Cierre, page 227).
Definitive statements about the health impact of PROMIN I cannot be made due to: (a) the
lack of baseline data on the population affected by the program; (b) the difficulty of identifying
appropriate control groups; (c) the weak information base with which to retrospectively construct
"before PROMIN" health status indicators; and (d) the overlap of PROMIN I and PROMIN II in
all but four subprojects. Despite methodologic challenges, with the Bank's encouragement (and
using PROMIN II funds) an evaluation of PROMIN I's results was conducted in early 2000 using
reconstructed before-PROMIN indicators as well as some PROMIN-non-PROMIN comparisons.
That study concluded that in the area of infant mortality, the project interventions did not affect
the proportion of infant deaths due to preventable causes. With respect to childhood illnesses,
PROMIN I did not affect the prevalence of diarrheal disease or acute respiratory infection.
Similarly, the evaluation found that PROMIN I did not affect the (already low) prevalence of low
birthweight. Finally, PROMIN I did not affect the nutritional status of children (ref Informe
General de Cierre, Annex I, 2000). The most likely explanation for these findings is that the
health status indicators that PROMIN I was designed to affect, such as infant mortality, are
sensitive to many influences outside of the health sector, including household behaviors and
environmental conditions.
The country as a whole achieved significant improvements in maternal and child health
during the relevant period, and it is likely that PROMIN I contributed in some manner to the
general trend. Between 1990 and 1997, for example, infant mortality declined from 25.6 per
1,000 live births to 18.8 per 1,000, and the proportion of infant deaths attributable to preventable
causes fell. Neonatal mortality declined from 15.6 per 1,000 in 1990 to 11.4 per 1,000 in 1997;
post-neonatal mortality fell from 9.4 to 7.0 per 1,000 during the same period. Maternal mortality
decreased from 52 per 100,000 in to 38 per 100,000 in 1997. Indicators of health service
coverage, such as immunization rates, showed steady improvement (ref Metas en Favor de la
Madre y el Nino para el Ano 2000, Ministry of Health, 1999).
B.    Component 2: Early Childhood Development. PROMIN I sought to make both physical
and organizational improvements in the area of early childhood development, where basic
infrastructure was much weaker than in the health sector.  Again, in terms of physical
improvements, PROMIN I performed in a highly satisfactory manner, providing funding and
technical oversight for the construction of 153 Child Development Centers, many in precarious
locales.
-7 -



In terms of institutional development in child development, PROMIN I was marginally
satisfactory. Approximately 1,739 child development workers (including Promotoras) received
training under the project, and the training is reported to be of reasonably high quality. However,
institutional development in the area of child development was weak in two ways: First, the child
development centers and workers did not have a clear institutional home.  Few links were
established with the national or provincial Ministries of Education, and there is evidence that
Ministries of Education expressed unwillingness to accept or adopt the model of semi-formal early
childhood education promoted under PROMIN I. Trained child development workers and
Promotoras were not seen by Ministries of Education as having legitimate teaching credentials.
At the same time, early childhood development was not seen as a mainstream activity within the
health sector.
Second, the original ambition of the PROMIN model was to have close coordination
between child development and child health: children in the CDIs were all to obtain optimal well-
and sick-child care at PROMIN-assisted health centers. In fact, coordination varied greatly from
one jurisdiction to another, and is reported to be inadequate in most. Among the four subprojects
studied in depth for the evaluation of results, there were almost no instances of regular meetings
or other contacts between the PROMIN health and child development centers.
Given current data, the impact of PROMIN I interventions on child development is
impossible to measure. Overall, coverage of the preschool population varied greatly across
subprojects. Underutilization of the centers, attributed to low effective demand on the part of
parents, has been a problem in half of the CDIs. On the other hand, there are success stories; in
Gran Mendoza, where child development fit squarely into the province's social policy, the CDIs
cover 75 percent of the target population, and demand is high. With respect to cognitive and
psychosocial outcomes, about 80 percent of the children participating in CDIs have overall
development levels that are ranked as "good" or "very good," and 60 percent are reported to have
adequate intellectual and language development (Informe General de Cierre, p 175). However,
without comparisons to children not participating in the CDI, no conclusions can be drawn about
effectiveness. (A study comparing CDI vs. non-CDI children on school performance is currently
underway, and results are expected in late 2000.)
C.    Component 3:   Institutional Strengthening.  As noted earlier, although institutional
strengthening was described as a separate component in the SAR, in fact the majority of the
activities under that component were integral to the components discussed above, and are
therefore assessed under those components. A small but important share of the activities under
institutional strengthening sought to enhance program implementation capacity at municipal,
provincial and national levels. We cover only this latter set of activities in this section.
PROMIN I is rated marginally satisfactory in the area of institutional strengthening. On
the positive side, the requirements for subproject design contributed to improvement in
information-based planning and monitoring of health and child development investments.
Extensive efforts were made by both the Borrower and the Bank to develop and improve upon
the system for monitoring project performance and health information systems related to maternal
- 8 -



and child services. Tools such as supply and demand analyses, including beneficiary surveys, were
introduced to the jurisdiction authorities by the project. Some of the training strengthened
planning and coordination functions within provincial and municipal health authorities. And there
were some "pasantias de cooperaci6n horizontal," in which staff from the Provincial Executing
Units, the Municipal Executing Units and the Ministry of Health in a given province exchanged
experiences with corresponding staff in other provinces.
Bank staff familiar with the execution of the operation note that despite the fact that the
project was implemented through dedicated Provincial and Municipal Execution Units, "nearly
always, the Bank team found the MOH officials highly committed to the PROMIN project, very
aware of the details of what was going on, and usually wanting to do more" (ref communication
with Jean-Jacques de St. Antoine, 6 September 2000).
On the other hand, the Government's Informe General de Cierre and comments by some
jurisdiction authorities at the stakeholders' workshop indicate that the Provincial and Municipal
Executing Units, which operated under the direct supervision of the central Project Coordinating
Unit (PCU), tended to work in parallel to Ministries and Secretaries of Health at the
corresponding levels, and the project did not strengthen the management capacity in the line
agency substantially. At the federal level, the Project Coordinating Unit reported directly to the
Minister of Health, rather than to the technical counterparts in the Department of Maternal and
Child Health-a structure that had the dual effects of efficient implementation and weak
coordination within the Ministry.
In addition, it is widely acknowledged that infornation systems under the operation fell
short of expectations, despite the fact that monitoring and evaluation was a hallmark of the
original design. The process of adapting the list of 47 performance indicators inventoried in the
SAR (ref Annex F) to a list of 24 indicators that were used to monitor progress (ref October
1-26, 1994 supervision mission aide-memoire) was time consuming, and when complete did not
result in a monitoring system that was used by implementers at all levels for decisionmaking. As
documented in virtually all the supervision mission reports and the Informe General de Cierre, the
information system was fragmented, less useful for planning and program management than
hoped, and did not induce the type of significant cultural shift necessary to use informnation in a
systematic manner for day to day management decisions.
The several studies to be funded by PROMIN I under the Institutional Strengthening
component, including the Impact Evaluation, the National Health and Nutrition Survey,
Evaluation of Supplementary Feeding Programs, and the Study of the Reformulation of
Comedores Escolares, were canceled, greatly reduced in scope, or shifted to PROMIN II. For a
variety of technical and financing reasons, the Impact Evaluation was delayed and eventually
shifted to PROMIN II; baseline data for PROMIN I were not collected. The National Health and
Nutrition Survey was canceled, first, because the original bids far exceeded the budget, and
second, because national counterpart funds were in short supply and priority was afforded to
subprojects. The study of the Refornulation of Comedores Escolares was carried out in the form
of smaller studies in 9 provinces; some of the resulting recommendations were implemented. The
Evaluation of Supplementary Feeding Programs was not conducted, although smaller studies
-9-



related to this topic were financed under subprojects.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Modest. As described in detail in Section 4.2, PROMIN succeeded in improving some
aspects of the organization and functioning of basic health care services, and improved planning of
MCH/N services in the provinces and municipalities under the program. Because of PROMIN's
small size relative to the sector, and the absence of policy- and structure-related interventions, it
did not create large-scale changes in institutional efficiency or capacity.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Not Applicable
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Three factors subject to government control were found to be detrimental to PROMIN I's
implementation and outcome. First, during the financial crisis affecting Argentina in 1997 and
1998, counterpart resources were scarce and several activities were negatively affected. Second,
less emphasis was put on monitoring and evaluation, including national studies, than was
originally anticipated. Finally, as noted earlier, although the original health care package for
women included reproductive health in general, and provision of family planning in particular,
family planning services were never implemented or supported under the project. While this may
have reflected the prevailing values of the government, from a health perspective-in the context
of relatively high maternal mortality and high prevalence of unsafe abortions-it reduced the
potential positive impact.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The number of people employed to manage and administer the PROMIN I operation was larger
than anticipated originally.  Although precise figures are difficult to obtain because many
long-term consultants were hired under arrangements managed by the United Nations
Development Program and the International Organization of Migration, the staff at the central
PCU grew from about 50 in 1993 to 80 in 1999. By 1999, another 104 people were employed in
the provincial executing units (ref Informe General de Cierre, page 169). The share of project
funding used for the Project Coordination Unit, estimated at 9.5 percent in the SAR, ended up at
-10-



15.4 percent.
5.4 Costs andfinancing.
Two aspects of costs and financing are noteworthy: Reallocation of project resources
toward civil works, and difficulties in mobilizing counterpart funds both during project execution
(as noted earlier) and as the provinces and municipalities were required to take responsibility for a
larger share of recurrent costs.
As shown in Annex 2, expenditures on national studies and on human resources (service
providers) within subprojects were lower than originally anticipated, and spending on
infrastructure and coordination were correspondingly higher. The proportion of the project funds
that were expected to be allocated to national studies was 7.4 percent (or US$12 million); this
ended up at zero. The share of project monies expected to be devoted to infrastructure was 27.6
percent. By the end of the project, this had risen to 42.5 percent. As in many other projects, it is
likely that civil works were emphasized because of the prevailing opinion by the general public
and political leaders that visible improvements in infrastructure is equivalent to upgrading service
quality.
Many of the subprojects experienced problems with mobilization of counterpart funds,
particularly for the child development activities. For example, in Tucuman, the province's
inability (or unwillingness) to pay wages or monetary incentives for workers in
PROMIN-supported facilities led to an early termination of the subproject. In Florencio Varela,
while health workers' salaries were covered by the public sector, monetary incentives for
Promotoras in the CDIs ceased at the close of the project. In Parana, again the health workers
were covered under the public sector payroll, but due to concerns about the labor market status of
the Promotoras, the jurisdiction never paid monetary incentives and the CDIs suffered from high
rates of worker absenteeism as a result (ref Estudio de Costos, pagel 3-14).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
It is unlikely that the majority of the benefits of the PROMIN I operation other than those
related to infrastructure development will be sustained unless new Federal funding mechanisms
are developed, or priorities change at the provincial level. Even the physical improvements may
not be maintained over time due to insufficient allocation of financial resources and commitment
by the owners (provinces and municipalities in the case of health centers and hospital wards,
community groups and municipalities in the case of the child development centers).
This judgment is made on the basis of the experiences in the four subprojects that have
closed; the other subprojects continue to receive PROMIN II funding and therefore do not
immediately face the problem of financing recurrent costs out of provincial budgets. Careful
attention to the issue of sustainability under PROMIN II could result in a better outcome than
now predicted. The reasons for this rating include:
- 1 1 -



a) In Argentina, where the responsibility for financing and operating public health services is held
by the provinces, the federal government has, to date, played a relatively small role in the sector.
Federally-managed programs such as PROMIN can be used as tools to encourage improvements
and reorientation of priorities at the provincial level. But this is likely to be a successful strategy
only where the programs are truly integral to and consistent with the provinces' own broader
plans for health sector development. An isolated program, especially when the implementation is
controlled (directly or indirectly) through a central unit, is unlikely to have a life after the subsidies
cease. In the case of PROMIN I, the level of commitment and political will, particularly with
respect to sustaining Early Childhood Development activities, appears to be quite low in many of
the participating provinces and municipalities. This situation, combined with increasing pressure
on public budgets, makes it unlikely that the resource-intensive PROMIN model will be sustained.
On the other hand, it is worth noting that for health investments in several municipalities, there
has been a high level of commnitment. In Rosario, for example, official report that health centers
that received PROMIN I funding will continue to be supported, and that the model will be
expanded throughout the jurisdiction.
b) The stringent budget conditions now prevailing in Argentina place all investments at risk, and
minimize the chances of government support for the additional personnel, training, social
communication and other recurrent costs associated with the PROMIN model. The project
design anticipated a gradual transition in the financial responsibility for recurrent costs, but very
few of the costs have been taken up completely in the participating provinces or municipalities.
As described above, this is particularly problematic in the Early Childhood Development
component of the project. Virtually none of the jurisdictions are able (or willing) to finance the
required new personnel, or continue to provide monetary incentives to the Promotoras.
c) The child development centers are poorly integrated into either education or health sectors,
and operate outside of a fixed institutional framework.  While this may give them  some
advantages in terms of flexibility, the fate of child development workers and building maintenance
is precarious in the absence of an institutional home.
d) The use of non-governmental organizations in implementation has been limited, and the
commercial private sector played no role in the project. Social audits were conducted by the Red
Cross and Caritas in some subprojects, and Caritas operated a number of CDIs. In addition,
NGOs were used to some extent as part of social communication campaigns. However, the
project did not involve NGOs as a means of building a broad-based constituency for the project,
or to mobilize diverse funding sources. It did not seek to stimulate development of better
MCH/N activities in the private sector.
e) The government's Informe General de Cierre and participants in the stakeholders' workshop
indicated that in many, though not all, of the jurisdictions, the execution of the project through
administrative structures that ran parallel to the existing public sector entities weakened the
prospects for long-term sustainability.
t) The absence of an impact evaluation based on reliable pre-PROMIN information-even for
- 12 -



small sample of "demonstration" areas-means that it is not possible to analyze the
cost-effectiveness of the PROMIN model. This knowledge gap severely limits the ability of
proponents of the approach from justifying continued outlays on the basis of a sound economic
analysis.
Aside from uncertainty about financial sustainability, which applied primarily to the Early
Childhood Development component, questions remain about the likelihood that the changes in
provider practices will be sustained without corresponding sector-wide modifications in the
organization and financing of health services. As has been experienced in other countries, better
infrastructure and equipment and more training may be insufficient to improve the productivity
and consumer-responsiveness of government health workers.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The extent to which the project activities will be shifted to regular operations is unclear, in
part because of the availability of PROMIN II funding. Ability to eventually take over financial
and institutional responsibility for PROMIN activities was an eligibility criterion for subprojects,
and each of the agreements between the central Ministry of Health and the jurisdictions included
clauses related to the gradual shift in financing to the jurisdictions' budgets. However, there is
little or no enforcement of this commitment, and in the large majority of project areas funding
continues under PROMIN II.
Despite an agreement between the Borrower and the Bank in 1999 that sustainability plans
would be prepared for each of the subprojects that were closing, no formal sustainability plan
exists, and currently there are no plans to develop one. In two of the five jurisdictions that
received only PROMIN I support (and where the subprojects have already closed), the transition
to public budget financing remains possible but unlikely; in two others, due to strong political
will, there is a good chance that the public sector will take on the added responsibilities for the
health sector activities but not for child development. In the final jurisdiction (Tucuman), the
subproject closed prematurely due to the jurisdiction's failure to provide counterpart for either
health or early childhood development activities.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.] ILending:
The Bank performed in a satisfactory manner during project preparation, identifying an important
set of interventions during an opportune moment for the Borrower. The Bank depended primarily
on technical work developed by a UNICEF team, which was of high quality and met existing
Bank standards.
Two shortcomings during the appraisal period were: (1) The minimal involvement of
government counterparts. Justified on the grounds that technical capacity in that unit was weak at
the time, this tactic was largely responsible for decisions that led to establishing executing
structures that were not fully integrated into the public sector management line authorities. (2)
Inadequate attention to ensuring that the recurrent cost burden could and would be absorbed by
- 13 -



the jurisdictions at the close of the project.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision of the project was satisfactory. Compared to many Bank operations, there was
remarkable continuity on both Bank and Borrower sides: For the four years of most intensive
activity, 1994-98, the composition of the executing team on the Borrower side was almost
unchanged; on the Bank side, the task manager and field-based procurement specialist remained
the same, as did the two consultants who were assigned to supervise the construction quality and
the implementation of the modelo de atenci6n.
In stark contrast to many Bank operations, ratings in the supervision reports started
relatively low and improved markedly during the life of the project. Initially, as considerable
effort was expended setting up information and other systems, disbursements and other progress
indicators lagged; supervision reports from that period express frustration with the slow pace. By
mid-1994, the executing team had changed to one that put a greater emphasis on execution. At
the same time, a fresh Bank team solved some of the execution obstacles. For example, the Bank
procurement specialist worked with the government team to improve the bidding documents for
"local shopping" (the primary procurement methodology for civil works), thereby expediting
procurement and lowering construction costs. The project cycle for preparation, evaluation and
approval of subprojects was also streamlined.
Between 1995 and 1997, as the pace of commitments and disbursements quickened,
supervision reports and accompanying aide-memoires and the mid-term review expressed
satisfaction with progress, and included a series of recommendations that addressed specific issues
in the organization and delivery of MCH/N services; in addition, under the Early Childhood
Development component, the supervision team provided recommendations about child feeding
issues and coordination with health centers. In the area of information systems, stronger
recommendations were made regarding the pace and technical adequacy of monitoring
mechanisms. Outside consultants were brought in to assist with development of indicators and
creation of a functional information system. By 1998, when a new task manager (with the same
consultants) supervised the operation, PROMIN I attained the rating of "highly satisfactory" for
both development objectives and implementation.
Although certainly meeting or exceeding minimum standards, supervision of the PROMIN I
operation could have been improved in several ways:
First, more critical attention could have been given to the uneven progress in transformation
of the modelo de atenci6n within health centers.
Second, a greater and more effective effort could have been made to address the lack of a
feasible and enforceable plan for transferring financial responsibility at the close of the
project. In the end, agreement to prepare such a plan did not result in its creation, or in the
important outcome of an actual shift in financial responsibility.
Third, stronger supervision of the Early Childhood Development component was
- 14 -



warranted. While receiving about half of the project funding, this component received
markedly less technical oversight than the MCH/N component. The original supervision
plan included 8 weeks of time from a child development specialist, but no one with special
qualifications in the area of early childhood education participated in supervision missions.
Throughout the course of the project, the main technical emphasis was on MCH/N (as
indicated by the number of recommendations and agreements presented in aide-memoires,
the monitoring indicators, and the frequent description of the project as a "maternal and
child health project" in Bank documentation).
Finally, the Bank acceded to a series of modifications (and elimination) of the national
studies included in the original design. In hindsight, lack of baseline data for an impact
evaluation has severely limited the ability of both the Bank and the Borrower to assess the
wisdom of investment choices.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
To prepare the overall framework for the operation, the Borrower depended largely on the
work of the UNICEF technical team-several of whose members went on to constitute the
original executing team of the project. The later preparatory work during design of subprojects
was done largely by provincial and municipal health authorities.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
In general, the government permitted unconstrained implementation of the PROMIN
operation, and in that way was supportive.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
For much of the project's life, the implementing agency (i.e., the PCU within the Ministry of
Health) understood its mission to be execution of the main aspects of the project, with particular
emphasis on infrastructure and training. It performed that role well. The system for issuing
bidding documents, evaluating bids, overseeing contracts, and maintaining accounts was very
effective, although it came at a higher administrative cost than originally anticipated. In the view
of the Bank's procurement specialist, the PROMIN I operation in general met high standards for
transparency, and prevented excessive cost overruns. As stated earlier, monitoring of the
technical aspects of the program was not as strong. In addition, technical specialists rarely
worked with individuals in the PCU charged with monitoring disbursements; thus, spending
patterns were disconnected from technical priorities.
7. 7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory
- 15 -



8. Lessons Learned
Financial sustainability is the lynchpin. In hindsight, it is clear that the provisions for
financial sustainability of PROMIN I investments were weak, and that the substantial benefits of
the operation are jeopardized by an inadequate and unrealistic assessment of the province- and
municipal-level willingness to take responsibility for continuing and expanding the PROMIN
interventions.
In this context, it is important to note that financial sustainability implies much more than
mechanistically finding budget space for additional recurrent costs. Budget allocations reflect
political priorities.
Thus, emphasis on financial sustainability of PROMIN would have demanded that attention
be paid, at the outset, to developing intellectual ownership of the program by the leaders in the
health sector, and strengthening that through evaluations that could provide hard evidence of the
project's achievements. Emphasis on financial sustainability would have informed decisions about
the institutional arrangements for execution: If the provincial ministries were eventually to take
over operation and expansion of the program, their involvement in day to day execution was
essential. Such an emphasis would have forced a resolution to the issue of the institutional
isolation of the child development activities long before the end of the project.
Tackling the question of financial sustainability, and the associated elements of Borrower
"ownership," is a major challenge for Bank operations, and makes project appraisal and
supervision more difficult and time-consuming. The incentives to do so are few, particularly when
continued Bank support is available (as in this case, under PROMIN II). The lesson for future
operations in Argentina is that Bank management should pay close attention to the strength of the
assumptions underlying statements about prospects for sustainability.
Visible investments are important. but not enough. Although Argentina is among the
region's richest nations, the health sector-and particularly the public health sector that seeks to
serve the low-income families without explicit health insurance-remains in a poor state of
physical and technical development. This is reflected in health indicators that are inferior to other
countries at lower income levels.  The infusion of external resources targeted at tangible
improvements in basic health services has been universally viewed as a positive outcome of
PROMIN I. However, investments in civil works, equipment and training have not been sufficient
to induce the profound changes in the culture of health care provision originally envisioned. The
"rules of the game" remain the same; thus, provider and consumer behavior are largely
unchanged.
It is impossible to know whether, with a different design, PROMIN I could have promoted
sectoral reforms that would have altered the behavior of providers and patients over the long
term. Political and institutional obstacles to change might have simply resulted in the project's
paralysis and ultimate failure. However, it is likely that PROMIN I could have made a greater
long-term contribution if it had been viewed by its designers and implementers as an initial step
- 16-



toward a health system in which the organization and financing were aligned toward achieving
results and responding to demand. It could have been part of a reform-oriented vision, rather than
isolated from it. Specifically, that perspective would have made evident the need for good
monitoring systems that could respond to local-level information needs. It could have induced
provinces to use project resources to pilot test new provider payment systems. In the future, and
over the long term, important improvements in the provision of health services and early
childhood education for the poor will require attention to questions of policy, structure, financing
and stimulating demand, rather than to construction and training for specific programs.
"Demand-driven" projects can surprise us. Originally, project designers assumed demand
for rehabilitating, equipping and staffing health centers would far outrun demand for child
development investments. As it turned out, many provinces and municipalities in fact requested
large sums for construction of CDIs and training of staff. This shift was somewhat difficult to
detect, however, because the technical specialists in the PCU (as well as Bank staff and
consultants) did not track the disaggregated disbursement patterns that were under the purview of
PCU's financial team. As a result, the emphasis of supervision continued to be on the health and
nutrition components.
Monitoring and evaluation need special attention. In PROMIN 1, as in other Bank
operations, good intentions about careful monitoring and evaluation gave way to the pressures to
produce visible improvements-and to use the financing in a timely manner. This reduced
PROMIN's usefulness as a demonstration project for better delivery of core maternal and child
health services, or as a pilot effort to develop and improve upon early childhood development
interventions. In Argentina, which has a weak tradition of evaluation, the priority given to
monitoring and evaluation in the project's design could only have been maintained if both the
Bank and the Borrower considered that the "knowledge" output of the project was as important
as the physical outputs, and/or if the project had been structured so that financing of subprojects,
which was in high demand, was contingent on producing baseline and monitoring data.
Parallel executing structures can impede institutional sustainabilitv. Depending on the
specifics of a given setting, it may be wise for the Bank and Borrower to design arrangements
for project implementation that do not include the development of large, semi-autonomous
executing units.  This issue is currently being addressed within PROMIN II, where the
coordination unit is being incorporated into the Ministry's Direcci6n de Salud Materno-Infantil;
similar changes are being encouraged at the provincial and municipal levels.
A successful demonstration area would have been an invaluable asset. An early investment
in creating a pilot demonstration center to highlight the full range of PROMIN interventions
would have greatly assisted in maintaining the understanding of the importance and economic
returns of the integrated modelo de atenci6n.
The impact of PROMIN II can be greater than the impact of PROMIN I. Although all of
the PROMIN II resources have been committed, several specific lessons from the assessment of
PROMIN I can be used to enhance the impact of the follow-on operation. These include:
Develop baseline indicators for new subprojects.
- 17 -



Obtain a clear expression of political will to assume recurrent cost responsibilities, and
build in enforcement mechanisms.
-     Improve on the information system to make it more usable (and used) by direct service
providers.
*     Re-enforce outreach activities to overcome demand-side barriers.
Strengthen the referral/counterreferral system, which remains weak.
*     Ensure that the nutrition interventions are directed more to the problem of chronic
undernutrition than acute undernutrition.
*     Seek synergies with other national primary care programs (e.g., midicos de cabacera).
*     Document highly successful instances in which the modelo de atencion was fundamentally
transformed.
*     Reorient the activities under the Early Childhood Development component if warranted
after a more thorough assessment of the prospects for institutional and financial sustainability in
each of the subprojects.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
These are the comnments received from the Project Coordination Unit in the Ministry of
Health in Argentina on September 15, 2000.
Acerca de la calificaci6n del Promin I en general
1. Una observaci6n general que hace al metodo de presentaci6n: llama la atenci6n la
discordancia que se nota entre algunas calificaciones que se colocan en los subtitulos
(por ejemplo pto. D en que se califica de satisfactorios los resultados del Promin) y el
texto que da contenido a dicha calificaci6n (que es severamente critico). Por nuestra
parte, el examen de cada uno de los componentes sustantivos del proyecto y de las areas
de apoyo (administrativas), que se realiza en estas notas y comentarios nos permite
concluir que el conjunto de la gesti6n e implementaci6n merece el calificativo de
medianamente satisfactorio.
El peso relativo de la poblaci6n objetivo
2. Debe revisarse la estimaci6n del significado porcentual de las madres y nifios pobres
atendidos por el programa respecto al conjunto de la poblaci6n carenciada. En el ICR se
afirma que esta proporci6n, es del 5%, esta es una afirmaci6n, a nuestro juicio err6nea
que debiera corregirse. Segiin el Censo Nacional de Poblaci6n de 1991 (uiltimo dato
oficial, y por otro lado base de los calculos del Promin) la "poblaci6n en hogares con
NBI" ascendia a 6.427.257 (es decir el 19,9% de un total de 32.245.467 personas).
Analizando la piramide por sexo y edad correspondiente a dicho censo, se observa que
las mujeres en edad fertil (15-49 anios) y los nifios menores de 6 anios constituyen -
aproximadamente- el 40% de la poblaci6n total; proporci6n que se eleva al 43% en el
caso de la poblaci6n en hogares con NBI.
3. Por lo tanto, en cifras absolutas en hogares con NBI en todo el pais, la cantidad de
- 18 -



mujeres en edad fertil y de ninos menores de 6 afios ascendia por entonces a unas
2.763.721 personas.
De este modo, las aproximadamente "500.000 mujeres y nifios de areas urbanas con
bajos ingresos" que el programa buscaba beneficiar, representan en realidad el 18,09%
del total de mujeres en edad fertil y nifios menores de 6 afios que habitan en hogares con
NBI.
El modelo de atenci6n y la estructura de inversiones
4. En el punto C. Objetivo General se comenta acerca del modelo Promin: ..."siguio una
vieja estructura de inversiones...". Esto resulta parcialmente cierto ya que al momento
de la formulaci6n e implementaci6n del proyecto, esta era practicamente la unica
hip6tesis propuesta a nivel de las politicas puiblicas nacionales destinada a la
transformacion de la deficiente estructura de servicios destinada a la atenci6n de madres
y nifios residentes en areas carenciadas de los centros urbanos del pais. Conviene
recordar que en ese momento, funcionaban (y ain continuian actuando) como forma muy
primitiva de complementar las necesidades alimentarias de los nifios en edad pre -
escolar, los denominados comedores infantiles o comunitarios, surgidos como respuesta
espontanea de la poblaci6n ante la crisis hiperinflacionaria del 89' y apoyados luego con
fondos piiblicos. Frente a esta forma tosca y no planificada de enfrentar las necesidades
de este grupo socialmente tan vulnerable la propuesta de los CDI, resultaba no s6lo
novedosa, sino un verdadero desafio para superar el asistencialismo provisorio
remplazandolo por una perspectiva de promoci6n destinada a equilibrar las desventajas
de los nifios con NBI al momento de integrarse al sistema educativo formal. En el area de
salud, paralelamente, la propuesta de fortalecer el sistema de atenci6n primaria y su
sistema de referencia, revitalizando el equipamiento y la obra civil y primordialmente el
metodo de atenci6n de la poblaci6n matemo infantil cubierta por el mismo (en las areas
carenciadas) se fijaba como objetivo proporcionar a estos segmentos sociales el acceso a
servicios que hasta el momento s6lo nominalmente estaban disponibles para este fin;
ambas situaciones siguen vigentes aun hoy.
La importancia de la pobreza en los centros urbanos elegidos
5. En el punto C de referencia se afirma, en el parrafo sobre los componentes originales
del mismo, que las provincias de Buenos Aires, Sante Fe, C6rdoba, Entre Rios,
Mendoza, Tucumrn si bien se caracterizan por sus grandes centros urbanos no lo son por
los altos niveles de pobreza. Vale la pena recordar al respecto, que para 1991 la
poblaci6n urbana del pafs constituia el 87% de la poblaci6n total y que mas del 80% de la
misma se concentraba en los grandes centros de estas 6 jurisdicciones, proceso que en
diez anios se ha acentuado. Cabe agregar que siendo la pobreza actual en Argentina una
manifestaci6n sobre todo urbana, esos centros concentran una proporci6n enorme de la
poblaci6n carenciada de todo el pais medida por las necesidades basicas insatisfechas o
por los bajos ingresos, segun el citado censo estas seis provincias concentraban en sus
centros urbanos el 59.2% del total de poblaci6n con necesidades basicas insatisfechas de
- 19 -



la Argentina. Por otro lado - como es esperable en funci6n de las magnitudes antes
mencionadas - los niveles de pobreza (siempre medidos por el indice de NBI) de estas
provincias (el 17.7% del total de la poblaci6n), no estan muy por debajo del promedio
urbano de todo el pais (19.9 %). Sin embargo es cierto que algunas jurisdicciones como
Santiago del Estero, San Juan, Chaco, Corrientes, etc., tienen una escasa proporci6n de
la poblaci6n total - urbana y rural - y altas proporciones de poblaci6n NBI (alrededor
del 30%).
Las falencias de los sistemas de seguimiento y evaluaci6n en desmedro del cambio del
modelo de atenci6n
6. En el parrafo sobre componentes examinados se afirma que los componentes del
programa no "fueron formalmente examinados durante la ejecuci6n de la operacion.. .No
obstante, [se dice] se introdujeron cambios en el alcance geografico, en la escala de los
subproyectos, y en el contenido de las intervenciones...". Efectivamente como el propio
texto lo sefiala mas adelante los diversos estudios evaluativos que hubieran permitido
controlar tanto el cumplimiento de metas, como la direccionalidad del proceso de
transformaci6n propuesto y que eran parte del proyecto original, fueron abandonados y
los fondos destinados a los mismos reprogramados y asignados a obras de infraestructura
y equipamiento. Unido esto a un deficit notorio del sistema de monitoreo, condujo a
problemas que dificultaron notoriamente la toma de decisiones y el gerenciamiento
criterioso de los proyectos en ejecuci6n, como en la selecci6n de nuevas areas y
subproyectos. Este abandono de los criterios de control gerencial, sumado a una
ausencia de una abogacia por parte de la UCP en la modificaci6n del modelo de atenci6n,
incluso utilizando los mecanismos previstos por el proyecto, afectaron directa e
indirectamente en la perdida de objetivos especificos en lo que se refiere a los cambios
propuestos en el modelo de atenci6n: resulta inaccesible para cualquier equipo central de
conducci6n de un programa controlar aspectos complejos como son los de la atenci6n
programada de la salud, el cumplimiento efectivo de los mecanismos de relaci6n entre los
centros de atenci6n primaria y sus centros de derivaci6n (referencia y contrarreferencia),
los cambios de orden operativo en la atenci6n de la demanda, etc, sin la existencia de
elementos informativos basicos para sustentarlos.
La calificaci6n de los componentes del Promin I
7. Un juicio contradictorio en el punto C, es el que se refiere a la calificaci6n del
contenido del Promin, tema que analizamos en el primer parrafo de estas notas, ya que
por un lado se dice que es satisfactoria al inicio, a pesar de que se visualizan en el mismo
ciertas debilidades, que se sintetizan en el ICR en cuatro areas: falta de incentivos para
los funcionarios publicos en servicios de salud y desarrollo infantil; el enfasis en la mejora
de la oferta sin considerar los obstaculos de la demanda; el diagn6stico sobre
desnutrici6n aguda "como problema serio en Argentina"; finalmente el propio
componente de desarrollo infantil [se dice], no cont6 con un "lugar seguro al inicio... no
lograndose que la educaci6n temprana, tal como fuera conceptualizada por el Promin
fuera aceptada por el Ministerio de Educaci6n..."
- 20 -



Inviabilidad de incentivos particulares para los recursos humanos de los efectores del
Promin I
8. Respecto a estos puntos el Ministerio de Salud, a traves de la Unidad Coordinadora de
Programas Matemo Infantiles y Nutricionales sostiene que los incentivos particulares
basados en la productividad para los funcionarios implicados en la instrumentaci6n de los
subproyectos fueron motivo de extenso analisis en la formulaci6n inicial del Promin y se
desecharon entonces, ya que dichos incentivos resultarian contradictorios con las
politicas salariales de las jurisdicciones en donde se intervendria ( en las que priman las
retribuciones homogeneas segun cargo y funci6n) y por tanto no resultarian sostenibles
en el tiempo, una vez terminado el pago de recursos humanos con fondos del programa,
situaci6n que aun hoy se mantiene vigente en la politica de recursos humanos del sector
publico, y que en la totalidad de las provincias esta juridicamente consagrada tornando
inviable esta propuesta. Por otro lado el tema de los incentivos implicaban, a juicio del
grupo de formulaci6n, una diferenciaci6n obstructiva entre los agentes que trabajarian
en un mismo ambito segun fuera su fuente de fmanciamiento (Promin y no Promin).
La transformaci6n de la oferta y de la estructura de la demanda
9. Respecto a las consideraciones sobre el mejoramiento de la oferta, creemos que si bien
en la programaci6n se enfatizaron los cambios en esta (como base del nuevo modelo de
atenci6n), en la propuesta original la transformaci6n de los obstaculos originados por la
estructura de la demanda estaban previstos y se consideraron pasibles de cambio a traves
de un proceso de comunicaci6n social intenso y de educaci6n para la salud asi como de
la aplicaci6n de una captaci6n activa de la demanda no satisfecha con trabajo extra-mural
del equipo de salud y aplicando una metodologia de programaci6n local. Por cierto este
es una propuesta que contrasta con la visi6n "politica" (muy propia de muchos politicos
provinciales y municipales) que reducen la transformaci6n de la oferta a la construcci6n
de nuevos efectores o a su equipamiento (como forma de demostrar su preocupaci6n por
el sector y los logros obtenidos) y que curiosamente coincide con una creencia del
puiblico beneficiario (al menos temporaria) de que la inversi6n fisica es la puerta de
entrada a una mejor atenci6n, rapidamente descubren, sin embargo, que sin un recurso
humano adecuadamente entrenado y motivado e insumos adecuados, el cambio en la
estructura fisica de los recursos resulta un espejismo para alcanzar logros que se reflejen
en indicadores de procesos y resultados.
El enfoque nutricional: el problema del diagn6stico
10. En cuanto al tema de la desnutrici6n, efectivamente las consideraciones originales en
que se bas6 el diagn6stico de desnutrici6n aguda, compartida por el grupo de
preparaci6n del proyecto y los tecnicos del BIRF, utiliz6 la informaci6n - por cierto
insuficiente - que entonces se disponia a este efecto. La conciencia plena de la limitaci6n
de la informaci6n disponible entonces, llev6 a que uno de los estudios aprobados y que
despert6 mayores expectativas, en el conjunto de los propuestos por el Promin, fue
- 21 -



justamente el de la Encuesta Nacional de Nutrici6n, desechada en el transcurso de la
gesti6n de implementacion posterior. El enfoque epidemiol6gico original se basaba en
un paradigma de defidict cal6rico-proteico. Desde el punto de vista de politicas publicas
el problema que se presentaba en relaci6n con la complementaci6n alimentaria era como
enfrentar la diluci6n intrafamiliar, de allf las caracteristicas con las que se diseino la caja
(CAF). El estudio de resultados de la implementaci6n del CAF en 1999, demostr6 sus
falencias, lo que, unido a estudios recientes sobre deficits nutricionales en la poblaci6n
matemo-infantil (fundamentalemente micronutrientes) llev6 a redefinir la politica de
complementaci6n alimentaria transformando la propuesta de complementaci6n
alimentaria en la de entrega de leche fortificada con sales de hierro y zinc a partir del ano
2000.
El desarrollo infantil: una de las caracteristicas fundamentales del PROMIN
1. El otro punto a comentar es el de las observaciones al enfoque del area de desarrollo
infantil, uno de los aportes, a nuestra consideraci6n, genuinamente mas novedosos del
Promin, en tanto que a partir de la formulaci6n del proyecto, la idea de la integralidad de
la problematica de los pre - escolares se convirti6 en tema obligado de la agenda de las
politicas publicas sociales de la Argentina. Conviene recordar la tajante e inequitativa
divisi6n que se presentaba en este tema, al inicio del programa (y que en lo esencial se
mantiene aun hoy) entre la abundante oferta de jardines de infantes destinados a los ninios
en edad pre - escolar de los segmentos sociales medios y altos y la precaria oferta que
para los nifios de los sectores carenciados estaba constituida por los comedores
comunitarios o infantiles, reducida a una elemental y reducida prestaci6n alimentaria .
Desde el inicio de la preparaci6n del proyecto, se asumi6 que frente a esta grave
situaci6n, el CDI como transformaci6n de estos comedores, debia constituirse en el
nuicleo efector de una novedosa y superadora modalidad de estimulaci6n de los nifios pre
- escolares de zonas carenciadas, siendo el resultado de una triple integraci6n: con la
comunidad para asegurar la inserci6n y participaci6n de las madres de los ninios
beneficiarios, con los efectores de atenci6n primaria de la salud situados en la zona para
consolidar la atenci6n de estos nifios de 2 a 5 afios de edad con una perspectiva
totalizadora, y una integraci6n - no menos importante - de las diversas jurisdicciones
institucionales (Ministerios o Secretarias de Educaci6n, Salud, Bienestar Social, de la
Mujer, Minoridad, etc.) que tuviesen acciones y / o atribuciones en las provincias y
municipios en los que se implementarian los subproyectos Promin, para asegurar un
soporte institucional y garantizar la sustentabilidad. Esta estrategia debia asegurar el
marco general en el que la tarea especifica del CDI, (promover el desarrollo psicosocial
de los pre - escolares, en base al juego, la capacidad expresiva, el lenguaje afectivo -
social, intelectual y motriz), pudiera desarrollarse exitosamente a trav6s  de las
Promotoras Educativas  Comunitarias ( mujeres de la propia comunidad especial y
permanentemente capacitadas).
12. Debe recordarse, por otro lado que al momento de la formulaci6n y aun en el inicio
de los primeros sub - proyectos Promin, no estaban presentes en el horizonte educativo,
los efectos de la Ley Federal de Educaci6n y sus disposiciones incorporando a la
- 22 -



ensefianza obligatoria a los nifios de 5 anios, indudablemente este y otros factores
end6genos al propio Promin y las articulaciones politico - institucionales locales,
condicionaron negativamente en cada uno de los subproyectos la consecuci6n de los
objetivos propuestos para esta area.
13. En 1997, el componente de desarrollo infantil desarroll6 un instrumento evaluativo
que aplicado a 14 .949 concurrentes a los CDI, demostr6 resultados muy positivos en el
desarrollo de los nifios bajo programa midiendo con criterios cuantitativos cuatro areas
del desarrollo infantil: afectivo - social; lenguaje verbal; motriz; e intelectual.
14. Por otro lado en el propio Promin I, debieran desgiosarse los logros y deficiencias
del componente de desarrollo infantil ya que como perspectiva novedosa en el campo de
las politicas sociales en la Argentina, merece un anAlisis pormenorizado.
15. El Subproyecto realizado en el Gran Mendoza: la formulaci6n del Promin en la
dimensi6n de desarrollo infantil, se integr6 a las politicas sociales de la provincia,
permitiendo ampliar la cobertura y mejorar la calidad de los servicios. Esto ultimo se
verifica en los resultados obtenidos a partir de la aplicaci6n del instrumento de
seguimiento del desarrollo psicosocial del nifno, en el cual casi el 80 % se ubica en las
categorias Muy Bueno y Bueno. Actualmente se esta atendiendo al 75% de la poblaci6n
infantil prevista, mientras que el 15% faltante depende de la incorporaci6n de nuevo
RRHH. Es de sefialar que se ha profundizado sustancialmente la articulaci6n entre
Acci6n Social y Educaci6n.
16. Otro caso lo constituye el Subproyecto Rosario: durante el desarrollo del proyecto,
la Municipalidad de Rosario tom6 como programa de gobierno, la atenci6n de los nifnos
menores de 6 ainos adoptando los objetivos del Promin, los que con algunas
modificaciones a la propuesta original, continian siendo vigentes. Se ha fortalecido la
articulaci6n con los centros de Salud - en el 80% de los CDI -, lograndose una
ampliaci6n de la cobertura bajo control inicial. En los Jardines de Infantes provinciales, el
modelo incorpor6 positivamente a las Promotoras Educativas Comunitarias que
adoptaron funciones de articulaci6n con la comunidad.
17. En el caso de Florencio Varela: a partir de la implementaci6n del Programa, se
acentuo el compromiso de las mujeres que estaban a cargo de los nifios en los CDI que
originalmente eran comedores, lo que se tradujo en la constituci6n de la "Liga de
Mujeres Varelenses" (organizaci6n no gubemrnamental local). Como producto de la
capacitaci6n, mejor6 sustantivamente la calidad de la atenci6n integral de los ninos, lo
que se evidenci6 en los resultados de la ficha de Seguimiento que fueron de los mejores
obtenidos (94% de los ninios se ubic6 en las categorias Muy Bueno y Bueno). A pesar de
estos resultados, la falta de apoyo politico-institucional por parte del Municipio, result6
en un bajo nivel de sustentabilidad.
La calificaci6n de los componentes del programa
- 23 -



18. En el examen del "Logro del objetivo y rendimientos" (Pto. D.), se analizan los
diversos resultados a los que se considera en el texto del ICR, "en cierto modo
contradictorios". Los aspectos referidos a infraestructura, se consideran como "mejoras
importantes", en tanto que la operaci6n de los servicios de salud se evaluan como
mejoras pero "en menor grado" con poca seguridad en cuanto a su sustentabilidad
institucional o financiera y se afirman "pocas evidencias del impacto sobre los resultados
del desarrollo matemo infantil".
19. En este sentido se califica como satisfactoria la operaci6n de obra civil en centros de
salud y matemidades, medianamente satisfactoria la operaci6n de los servicios
correspondientes brindados a la poblaci6n y respecto al area de desarrollo infantil se
ofrece igual calificaci6n en terminos de ejecuci6n fisica (obra civil y equipamiento), "
marginalmente satisfactorio" el desempefio del area institucional del desarrollo infantil, e
insatisfactoria en general todo lo referente al fortalecimiento institucional entendido
como la mejoria de la capacidad de los gobiemos locales (de provincias y municipios). A
nuestro entender y en funci6n de lo expuesto, es satisfactoria la gesti6n de obra
civil y equipamiento de ambos componentes (salud y desarrollo infantil),
medianamente satisfactoria la operatoria de salud y desarrollo infantil y
marginalmente satisfactoria la referida a fortalecimiento institucional.
Los factores que incidieron en la implementaci6n del Promin I
20. En cuanto a los factores que "afectaron la implementaci6n y el resultado" en el
proyecto de ICR se encuentra un amplio abanico de causas, desde las extemas
(atribuibles a la situaci6n socio-econ6mica y su evoluci6n) y otros resultado de las
responsabilidades compartidas por los diversos actores implicados en el proyecto.
21. En nuestra opini6n esta visi6n critica contenida en los puntos C y D, debiera
completarse con los siguientes elementos:
a lo largo de la ejecuci6n del proyecto, las caracteristicas de la planificaci6n estrategica
destinada a procurar soluciones a la situaci6n de la poblaci6n matemo - infantil
carenciada, que sign6 la formulacion original del Promin, se fue diluyendo por una hiper
- politizaci6n de las acciones desarrolladas, que respondi6 en no pocos casos, a las
necesidades politicas inmediatas de los gobiemos provinciales y municipales y a la
incapacidad de la conducci6n de la UCP de diferenciar estas necesidades clientelisticas
de los prop6sitos legitimos e inicialmente acordados del programa.
22. Articulado con esta condici6n, contribuy6 sinergicamente a entorpecer la operatoria,
el abandono o sustituci6n de los criterios de seguimiento y evaluaci6n del desempenio de
cada subproyecto y del conjunto del Promin (incluida la propia gesti6n central)
habiendose previsto un sistema eficiente de informaci6n para la toma de decisiones, el
que se remplaz6 por diversas metodologias de control que no constituyeron una base
apta para instaurar un sistema de gerenciamiento capaz de encausar eficaz y
eficientemente las acciones en el logro de los resultados propuestos y de revisar en el
desarrollo de los procesos los objetivos puntuales de cada area sustantiva.
-24 -



23. Esta situaci6n negativa perjudic6 incluso el control presupuestario, tanto en la
aplicaci6n de los fondos en los subproyectos, como en el compromiso con nuevas
inversiones adquiriendo compromisos que avanzaron - como en el caso del Promin II -
por encima de los limites del pr6stamo originalmente otorgado por el BIRF.
A modo de sintesis
24. Un aspecto fundamental a considerarse en la operatoria del programa y su
disociaci6n con los objetivos originales fue el trastocamiento que se produjo desde el
inicio de su puesta en marcha. En efecto, las inversiones en obra civil y equipamiento se
consideraron en la formulaci6n como una forma de apoyo al cambio de modelo de
atenci6n en salud y al desarrollo de la propuesta de CDI, los que claramente estuvieron
enunciados como el objetivo principal a alcanzar.
25. Desde el comienzo de las actividades en el Promin I se privilegi6, en cambio, la
inversi6n fisica en tanto que en los hechos el resto de los procesos pasaron a tener una
consideraci6n secundaria, mas alla de la voluntad de muchos de los actores involucrados.
A esto debe sumarse las presiones ejercidas para lograr el cumplimiento de la curva de
desembolsos prevista y cuyo cumplimiento s6lo era posible con un ritmo de ejecuci6n de
la obra fisica que no respetaba los necesarios procesos de transformaci6n politico /
tecnico e institucional. Esto explica el desempefno disimil de los distintos componentes, y
relativiza el "exito" logrado en el rubro infraestructura.
26. Indudablemente buena parte de los errores y aciertos que condicionaron la ejecucion
y resultados del programa, no pueden desvincularse de la marcha de la situaci6n socio -
econ6mica de la Argentina, la que desde su formulaci6n hasta su conclusi6n tuvo un
sentido regresivo al aumentar los niveles relativos de pobreza y exclusi6n, afectando al
conjunto de la politica social. En las diversas jurisdicciones provinciales y municipales,
las necesidades de enfrentar el agravamiento de la crisis social, entendida a comienzos de
los 90' como temporaria, repercuti6 transformando en practicamente insustentables la
mayoria de los compromisos asumidos por las mismas en los convenios suscritos como
marco del inicio de cada subproyecto.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
- 25 -



10. Additional Information
The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Team consisted of
- Ruth Levine (Task Team Leader)
- Evangeline Javier
- Juan Pablo Uribe (Health Specialist)
- Marian Kaminskis (Team Assistant)
Comments were received from:
- Myrna Alexander (Country Director, LCC7C)
- Ariel Fiszbein (Country Sector Leader, LCC7C)
- Daniel Cotlear (Sr. Health, Nutrition and Population Economist, LCSHD)
- Jerker Liljestrand (Lead Health Specialist, HDNHE)
- Jean-Jacques de St. Antoine (Former Task Team Leader - Lead Operations Officer, ECSHD)
- Marie-Odile Waty (Former Task Team Leader)
- Vahe Kazandjian (Monitoring and Evaluation Consultant)
- The Borrower (Project Coordination Unit)
These conmments are available upon request, or from the project file.
-26 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Indicator (established in June 1995)  Target      Latest     Comments
(established  Information
in June
____________________________  _      1995)
Obstetric coverage (%)                 80          26-73     Varies widely across subprojects; no
Obstetric coverage                           ~~~~~~~~~~project average available. Information
from Informe General de Cieffe.
Pediatric coverage ( 2                 80          55-73     Varies widely across subprojects; no
project average available. Information
from Infonne General de Cierre. Note
that at some point between 1995 and
1998, the target was reduced to 60%
coverage.
Pediatric coverage of children 0-2     81                     No age breakdowns available for
years (%)                                                     pediatric coverage
Pediatric coverage of children 2-5 (%)  80
Post-partum followup (%)               80                     No information available
Early prenatal care ('captaci6n   No target        38-68      Not established as a formal indicator,
temprana de embarazadas')              set                    but frequently referred to as a sensitive
measure of quality of/access to care
"Comedores" that fulfill requirements  83           153       Information does not distinguish
for Child Development Center                                  between 'comedores" and "jardines."
"Jardines" that fulfill requirements for  105
Child Development Center
Relationship Child Development        100          Low       Anecdotal information
Center-Health Center (%/ linked)
Available infrastructure (number)     464          434
Medications delivered (number)     853,385                    No information available.
Available human resources (number of  704                     No information available.
persons)
Food delivered (tons)                4,510
Training workshops (number)           403                     No information available on number of
training workshops. However,
reportedly 9,000 people and 300"
training supervisors" (supervisores
capacitantes) were trained by October
1999 under combined PROMIN I and II.
Communication campaigns (number)       75                     No information available.
Loan funds disbursed (million)        100           100
National studies contracted and         4           0
terminated
1. Obstetric Coverage is defined as:
A) No of pregnant women receiving prenatal care
B) N of pregnancies expected in population
A=The number of women with an open obstetrical clinical history who have received prenatal care within the
gestational period.
B=An estimate based on 75 percent of the number of children 0-1 years, plus 2% of that number (adjustment
for the infant mortality rate). The resulting number should be the number of pregnancies at any given moment.
- 27 -



2.      Cobertura Pediatrica is defined as:
A)      N of children receiving care
B)      N of children expected in population
A=Number of children under 6 years with an open pediatric clinical history whose most recent visit (for any
pathology) occurred within the past one year
B=Number of children under 6 (estimated from census data and vital registration)
- 28 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Expected and Actual Project Costs by Component*
Expected                      Actual
Tolal I(LSS million)l  %   |   Total (uSS         %
!_     _  _  _  _  _  _                  _  _ _  I              m illion)*,
PCU                                 15.202           9.5       20.609             15.4
National Studies                    11.864           7.4       0.0               0.0
Subprojects
- Infrastructure                   - 44.207         - 27.6    - 56.780          - 42.5
- Equipment                        - 15.123         - 9.5     - 11.805          - 8.8
- Medication                       - 15.907         - 9.9     - 1.818           - 1.4
- Nutrition                        - 9.525          - 6.0     - 4.298           - 3.2
- Human Resources                  - 34.412         - 21.5    - 18.338          - 13.7
- Training & Social                - 8.092          - 5.1     - 8.367           - 6.3
Communication
- Taxes and Other                  - 0.0            - 0.0     - 1.648           - 1.2
TOTAL                               160.0            100.0     133.649            100.0
*This data is accurate as of December 1999. This is the most up-to-date data available from the Project
Coordination Unit.
Project Financing (all in US$million, as of December 1999)
Categon            Total Amount   Bank Financing  GoA Financing      Prov./Mun.
l_________________________  l____________I           F inaneing
Infrastructure                 55.614          50.153           5.461            0.00
- Health Centers           18.952         17.179           1.772          0.00
- Hospitals                3.716          3.312            .404           0.00
- Child Development Centers  32.945       29.661           3.284          0.00
Equipment                      12.978          11.735           1.242            0.00
- Health Centers           4.205          3.880            .324           0.00
- Hospitals                2.119          1.859            .260           0.00
- Child Development Centers  3.002        2.645           .357            0.00
- Informnation Systems     1.692          1.533            .159           0.00
- Vehicles                 1.958          1.817            .141           0.00
Training & Social               6.368           6.342           .026             0.00
Communication
- Training                 3.626          3.617           .008            0.00
- Social Communication     2.250          2.232            .018           0.00
- Study on school feeding  .491           .491             0.00           0.00
Human Resources                18.065           0.00           14.782            3.283
- Health Centers           11.215         0.00             8.529          2.686
- Hospitals               2.547           0.00             2.289          .257
- Child Development Centers  1.451        0.00             1.274          .176
- Incentives for promoting  2.852         0.00             2.688          .163
community eduction
Medication in hospitals &       1.821           0.00            1.810            .010
health centers
- 29 -



Investments                    .996            0.00            .990             .006
- Hospitals and Health Centers .313      0.00             .311           .002
- Book materials for child  .501         0.00             .500          .001
development centers
- Project information system  .181       0.00             .178          .003
(materials and services)
Nutrition (fortified milk &    4.283           0.00            3.841           .441
family food supplement)
Other                          6.121           3.382           2.738            0.00
- Commissions & bank      .159           0.00             .159          0.00
expenses                  .288           .223             .064          0.00
- Travel                  4.543          2.042            2.501         0.00
- Provincial PCU personnel &
contracted project information  .268     .268             0.00           0.00
system                    .862           .849             .012           0.00
- Audits
- Other
Total executed                106.2X9          71.613         30.894           3.742
- 30 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable for this project.
- 31 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialtv              Perfonnance Rating
icg. 2 Economists. I FM1S. etc.)    f Implementation    Dcvelopmcnt
%tonth Year    Count       Specialty                        Progress          Objectke
Identification/Preparation
November 4-20, 1991            1   Task Team Leader (WB)
I    Health Technical Specialist
(WB)
December 5-18, 1991            1   Task Team Leader (WB)
I    Disbursement Analyst (WB)
I    Public Health Specialist (c)
I    Financial Mngmt. Specialist (c)
October 27 - November 6,       1   Task Team Leader (WB)
1992                          1    Hlth. & Nutrition Specialist
I    (WB)
I    Health Technical Specialist
I    (WB)
I    Implementation Specialist (c)
I    Management Information (c)
Child Development Specialist
(c)
Financial Mngmt. Specialist (c)
Appraisal/Negotiation
March 7-12, 1993               1    Task Team Leader (WB)
I    HNP Specialist (WB)
I    Nutrition Expert (WB)
I    Public Health Specialist (c)
I    MIS Specialist (c)
I    Procurement/Costing (c)
Supervision
Sept. 10-21, 1993              1   Task Team Leader (WB)                S                  S
(Project Launch)
February 21-25, 1994           1   Operations Officer/TTL (WB)          S                  S
2   Procurement specialist (WB)
I   Disbursement analyst (WB)
I   Health Specialist (WB)
MCH Health Specialist (c)
July 5-21, 1994                1   Operations Officer/TTL(WB)           S                  S
I   Information Tech. Special. (WB)
I   Nutrition Specialist (WB)
I   Information Tech. Spec. (WB)
I   Child Hlth. & Nutr. Specialist
I   (c)
Public Hlth. Specialist (c)
October 17-25, 1994            1   Operations Officer/TTL (WB)          S                  S
I   Procurement Officer (WB)
- 32 -



June 5-16, 1995                1   Operations Officer/TTL (WB)          S                 S
I   Procurement Officer (WB)
I   Hith. and Nutrition Specialist (c)
November 18-24, 1995           1   Operations Officer/TTL (WB)          S                  S
I   Hlth. and Nutrition Specialist (c)
1   MIS/Implementation Specialist
(c)
May 29 - June 7, 1996          1   Operations Officer/TTL (WB)          S                 S
I   Hlth. and Nutrition Specialist (c)
I   MIS/Implementation Specialist
(c)
October 7-17, 1996             1   Operations Officer/TTL (WB)          S                  S
I   Hlth. and Nutrition Specialist (c)
I   MIS/Implementation Specialist
(c)
May 14-23, 1997                1   Operations Officer/TTL (WB)          S                  S
I   Hlth. and Nutrition Specialist (c)
I   MIS/Implementation Specialist
(c)
October 20-24, 1997            1   Operations Officer/TTL (WB)          S                 S
I   Hlth. and Nutrition Specialist (c)
1   MIS/Implementation Specialist
(c)
April 15-24, 1998              I   Operations Officer/TTL (WB)          S                  S
Mid-Term Review                I   Hlth. and Nutrition Specialist (c)
I   MIS/Implementation Specialist
I   (c)
I   Health Specialist (c)
Pub. Hlth/Biostat. Specialist (c)
October 19-29, 1998            1   Operations Officer/TTL (WB)         HS                 HS
I   Sr. Hlth. Econ./Future TTL
I   (WB)
I   Hlth. and Nutrition Specialist (c)
I   MIS/Implementation Specialist
(c)
Monit. & Evaluation Specialist
(c)
April 17-28, 1999              1   Sr. Health Economist/TTL (WB)       HS                 HS
I   Hith. and Nutrition Specialist (c)
I   MIS/Implementation Specialist
I (c)
Monit. & Evaluation Specialist
(c)
September 20-24, 1999          1   Sr. Health Economist/TTL (WB)       HS                 HS
I   Economist (WB)
1   Hlth. and Nutrition Specialist (c)
- 33 -



ICR
April 24-28, 2000             1    Sr. HD Econom./TTL (WB)             S                 S
I    Sr. Health Economist (WB)
I    Operat. Officer/Procurement
Specialist (WB)
I    Med./Pub. Hlth. Specialist
I    (c)
Finance Specialist (c)
July 24-28, 2000              1    Sr. HNP Economist (WB)              S                 S
I    Health Specialist (WB)
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project C% cle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ (.000)
Identification/Preparation              141.6                      357.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                    25.6                       73.6
Supervision                             100.9                        355
ICR                                      13.1                       49.6
Total                                   281.2                      835.9
- 34 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SlJ=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligibie, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                         O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
FII Sector Policies                      O H   OSUOM       ON   ONA
0 Physical                               OH OSUOM ON ONA
O Financial                               O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
O Institutional Development              0 H   0 SU 0 M    0 N  0 NA
El Environmental                         O H   OSUOM       O N  * NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction               O H  OSU*M       O N   O NA
Oi Gender                          OH OSUOM ON ONA
D Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM       O N   O NA
0 Private sector development             0 H   O SU O M    0 N  * NA
E Public sector management               0 H   O SU 0 M    0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)                O H   OSUOM       O N  O NA
- 35 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
Z Lending                                           OHS OS       OU    OHU
Z Supervision                                       O HS O S     OU    OHU
Z Overall                                           OHS OS OU OHU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
Z Preparation                                       O HS OS      O U   O HU
2 Government implementation performance             0 HS 0 S     0 U   0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                 0 HS * s     0 U   C HU
Z Overall                                           OHS *S Ou O HU
- 36 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Argentina: Managing Social Risks; Report of the World Bank prepared by the Human Development
Department, Social Protection Group, LAC Regional Office; January 10, 2000.
Estudio de Costos PROMIN 1: Analisis de Gasto, sugerencias para la construcci6n de un sistema de
indicadores de efectividad; PROMIN; July 2000.
Informe de Cierre del Prestamo BIRF 3643-AR; PROMIN1 (Closing Report for Loan IBRD 3643-AR,
PROMIN 1); PROMIN; June 2000.
La Experiencia del PROMINy la Atenci6n de la Mujer; Silvia Comba, Mirta Botzman and Paula Flores;
July 1999.
Metas en Favor de la Madre y el Nino para el Ano 2000: Avances en el Cumplimiento; Ministry of
Health and Social Action; 1999.
Midterm Review Report: Argentina Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition Project (PROMIN), AR-PE
6025, World Bank Midtermn Review Team mission; July 1998.
Politicas Sectoriales y Mujer, desde la salud. Revisi6n del PROMIN (Caso Provincia de C6rdoba);
World Bank Team for the campaign "La Mirada de las Mujeres en el BM"; July 2000.
Principales Resultados de la Segunda Encuesta Domiciliaria de Opinion de la Poblacion
Beneficiaria sobre los Efectores del PROMIN; PROMIN; August 2000.
Project Appraisal Document for a Proposed Loan in the Amount of US$100 million to the Argentine
Republic for a Second Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition Project; World Bank.; April 24, 1997.
PROMIN - Argentina, a different perspective: the Child Development Component by Elisabetta Parente
and Melissa Rizzo-Battistella, September 1999.
Taller de Evaluaci6n y Cierre del PROMIN I. Resumen de los Paneles (Evaluation and Closing
Workshop for PROMINI- Summary of the Panels); PROMIN; July 25-26, 2000.
Staff Appraisal Report: Argentina Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition Project; World Bank.; July
14 1993.
- 37 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
PROMWN's second beneficiary household survey was carried out during March and April 2000. The
survey was administered to a sample of 6,432 households in the targeted areas of 132 health centers under
18 PROMIN subprojects. This survey, like the first, was not only concerned with users' perspectives
regarding health centers, but also with finding the reasons potential beneficiaries do not use the health
centers. In three of the sub-projects, the opinions and behaviors of the populations living in areas with
PROMIN centers were compared with those of the population living in the same jurisdiction, and with
access to health centers not incorporated in PROMTIN. Finally, this survey focused on child development
from 2 to 5 years of age, and the opinions of mothers regarding these services.
The results of the second beneficiary survey are as follows:
Overall demographic information
The majority of households are poor: more than 40 percent live in extreme poverty, close to 75 percent
have income below the poverty line, 64 percent lack health insurance coverage ( obra social, pre-paid
health insurance or coverage through family relations), and less than 20 percent of heads of households
have completed secondary school. The surveyed population (pregnant women and mothers or those
responsible for care of children under 6) is comprised of young women (30 years of age, on average) who,
for the most part, have not completed secondary education and do not work. This profile varies by
subproject, but in all subprojects lack of health insurance coverage affects at least 50 percent of households
and, except for one subproject, incidence of income-related poverty is greater than 60 percent.
Use of Services
Close to 60 percent of the surveyed group have used the health center referred to in the survey
(corresponding to place of residence) in the last year; this behavior varies according to poverty level and the
existence or non-existence of health insurance coverage. The rate of use of the health centers varies among
subprojects - from 45 percent in the Zona Oeste del Conurbano to 80 percent in Puerto Madryn. No
significant differences in rate of use were observed related to the length of time a center has been supported
by PROMIN. In general terms, the survey affirms that users of these services are poorer than non-users.
Non-users often use other public services, particularly hospitals, and also other health centers.
The main reasons for not using the referenced health center varies by location. For users of other public
services, lack of knowledge of the existence of the referenced center(s) is one of the main reasons (this is
very relevant in the Regi6n Oeste, Posadas and Tucuman), but many select other health centers due to
distance or problems with attention received in the referenced health center. On the other hand, those who
only use hospital services claim to prefer this service over that provided by health centers. Finally, users of
non-public services do not generally oppose using health centers, but rather they tend to use with the
services to which they belong ( obra social, prepaid service, private consultation, etc.).
Those who use the referenced health centers tend to use the services more for prevention and prenatal
care than actual health problems. There is evidence of different use of health centers according to the
situation of poverty: more than a quarter of the non-poor "use" other services (vaccination, receiving
medication, injections, etc.).
- 38 -



Waiting time/Duration of appointment
There is evidence of a weak expansion of the implementation of scheduled appointments. Overall,
implementation of scheduled appointments is reflected through decreased waiting time, but even so, on
average, the sample group waits I hour and forty-five minutes to be attended. There is great variability
within this average: 30 percent wait less than half an hour and another 30 percent wait more than two
hours; only two subprojects have an average wait of one hour or less and in six subprojects the average
wait is two hours. Waiting time is greater in the group of centers which have been functioning longer under
the program. The average wait is shorter for those visiting for health control than for those who have an
actual health problem; and the wait tends to decrease in subprojects where the majority of the population
had a prior appointment.
The majority of users express satisfaction with the duration of the appointment. The results indicate
that prior waiting time is associated with this opinion: those who show more dissatisfaction with the
duration of the appointment had waited longer than those who were satisfied. Only four subprojects (two
of which were the first to be incorporated in PROMIN) show more than 25 percent desiring more time
during the appointment.
Suggestions
Two issues appear to be critical: (1) existence of materials and teams for health care - more than half of
users consider these to be insufficient, particularly noting lack of medication - notably in two of the
subprojects with longer association with PROMIN; and (2) absence - except in two subprojects - of home
visits by health care personnel. Regarding other aspects - especially those related to infrastructure
conditions - opinions showed overall satisfaction.
When suggestions were solicited from the users regarding improvements in attention received in health
centers, the most frequent were related to the organization of services - particularly greater hours of
attention, punctuality and presence of personnel, and problems related to waiting time.
It was not possible to deternine that the period of time a health center functions under the program
positively influences the satisfaction of its users. It is possible that differences in the length of time a center
functions under PROMIN is reflected more in the sustainability problems resulting from decreased
government financing and the difficulties provinces had in providing the promised counterpart funding.
These problems affect availability of materials, personnel and infrastructure maintenance, and increase
over time under the program.
PROMIN vs. non-PROMIN Groups
The incidence of poverty is greater in the sample of PROMiN's beneficiary population than in the
non-PROMIN population in the three jurisdictions where such a comparison was carried out ( Gran
Rosario, Parana and Gran Mendoza). There are differences in the poor populations of the PROMNIN and
non-PROMIN groups: there is greater incidence of structural poverty in the PROMUN group and more
prevalence of "new poor" in the non-PROMIN group.
In comparing the behaviors and opinions of the PROMIN and non-PROMIN groups, some tendencies
can be identified in the three subprojects compared:
- The proportion of users of the referenced health centers is greater in the PROMIN group than the
- 39 -



non-PROMLN group, regardless of the poverty situation or health coverage. This indicates that the
health centers supported by the program seem to attract more people than non-PROMIN-supported
health centers
- A greater proportion of users of PROMIN health centers visit for health controVprevention than the
non-PROMIN group. This is true among the poor and the non-poor within this group.
- There is greater satisfaction with scheduled appointments in the PROMIN health centers than in the
non-PROMIN health centers. However, scheduled appointments did not necessarily result in shorter
waiting times for PROMIN health centers than for non-PROMIN health centers.
- Users of PROMIN health centers express less dissatisfaction with materials and equipment for health
care than the users of non-PROMIN health centers.
- Although very uncommon overall, home visits by PROMIN health center personnel seem to be more
common than in non-PROMIN centers.
Centros de Desarrollo Infantil, or Child Development Centers (CDIs):
Regarding child development centers (CDls) for children from 2 to 5 years of age, the survey shows that
the populations do not perceive a need for institutional education for child development for the youngest
children (2 to 3 years of age). This manifests itself in behavior: 60 percent of children between 2 and 5 do
not attend any institution; this varies by to age. Among 5-year-olds, 2 out of 10 do not attend, but among
2-year-olds, 9 out of 10 do not attend. Mothers say they do not send their 2- to 3-year-olds because they do
not consider this necessary and prefer that they stay at home, while they explain that they do not send their
4- to 5-year-olds due to problems of geographic or institutional accessibility.
Although less-poor households tend to send their children to CDIs more than poorer households, this
difference in behavior seems to be more related to accessibility: the poorest sectors claim that obstacles
include the fact that they are not in the same neighborhoods as the institutions, as well as lack of vacancies.
Opinions regarding children's needs in CDIs reflect the perception of low necessity for an educational
environment for the youngest children: for 2- to 3-year-olds a place to play, be cared for and receive
balanced nutrition is more important, while 4- to 5-year-olds need access to an institution responding to
needs for education.
Approximately one-quarter of the children included in this study attend PROMIN CDls. The age and
poverty group profiles show an adequate implementation of the program's strategy in the targeted
population in terms of meeting the needs which were unmet by the formal education system. Children
attending PROMIN centers are younger and poorer than those attending non-PROMIN centers.
Mothers or other care givers show little demand or suggestions for improving the quality of attention.
This reflects a high degree of satisfaction, which was true for both PROMIN and non-PROMIN centers.
However, this low incidence of demand and/or suggestions may be related to lack of parameters for
comparison and lack of knowledge of the educational/intellectual development needs of the youngest
children.
- 40 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
The Stakeholder Workshop for the Argentina Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition Project (PROMIN
1) took place in Buenos Aires, Argentina June 25-26, 2000. The Workshop was organized by the Ministry
of Health's Office for Coordination and Execution of Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition Programs
and was well-attended by representatives of the provinces, international and scientific organizations, health
and nutrition specialists, the National Ministry of Health and other national offices and ministries. The
Workshop was organized in four panels, as summarized below:
Panel 1: Experience of PROMIN in the Provinces and Municipalities
- Dr. Arnaldo Medina. Director of Sanitary Programs, Province of Buenos Aires
- Dra. M6nica Fein. Secretary of Health, Municipality of Rosario, Province of Santa Fe
- CPN. Tomas Fernandez. Sub-Secretary of Social Action, Province of Entre Rios
- Dr. Carlos Cardello. Director of the Maternal and Child Program, Province of Mendoza.
The first panel consisted of presentations of the PROMIN experience as seen in the Florencio Varela,
Rosario, Mendoza and Parana subprojects.   Overall, the presentations indicated that PROMIN
strengthened interventions in maternal and child health, reinforcing existing efforts with the new program.
Initially, these interventions concentrated on reducing maternal/child morbidity and mortality. This focus,
by extension, revitalized other aspects of primary health care. The panel pointed out that PROMIN was
successful in creating new child development services and assessing the demand for these services among
the low-income population. PROMIN also promoted strong articulation with other social programs which,
thanks to good coordination, facilitated the interventions.
On-the-job training was a key aspect of strengthening the model, generating changes in performance, and
promoting proactive attitudes about the program. It was noted that although there was initially some
resistance to PROMIN, particularly due to its association with a multilateral lending organization,
credibility and transparency were rapidly enhanced.
The provincial representatives emphasized that despite these achievements, the transformation of the
modelo de atenci6n was not extensive enough. It did not advance in development of non-health-focused
activities, except in certain cases where enthusiastic individuals, rather than a true change in authorities'
political and technical decision-making prevailed. This weakness was also manifested in the difficulties
provinces had in providing the promised counterpart funding, human resources and materials. Thus,
inadequate consideration of sustainability was evident from the beginning of subproject execution, when
there was concern over investments in civil works, instead of the organization and management of the loans
and performance of the local implementing teams. The panel also recognized PROMIN's difficulty in
facing a social demand much greater than initially anticipated as a result of a significant increase in the
level of poverty.
There was strong criticism of the information system, which was never fully utilized by those generating
the information. The new systems were not always integrated with the existing system. In some cases, this
led to significant under-reporting. In addition, the panel pointed out that PROMIN lacked baseline
information that would have allowed comparisons over time; this seriously hampered an impact evaluation.
In terms of child development activities, the panel agreed that there was great difficulty in incorporating the
education sector. This situation was aggravated by the sanctioning of the Federal Education Law, which
gave the Ministry of Education the mandate to extend formal education to kindergarten.
-41 -



Panel 2: Changing the model of care, or modelo de atenci6n, and management - the central questions
established through the PROMIN experience.
- Dr. Antonio De Azevedo. Pan American Health Organization (PAHO)
- Dra. Maria Luisa Ageitos. United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF)
- Dra. Nelida Fernandez de Busso. Argentine Pediatrics Society
- Lic. Marcela Masnatta. United Nations Development Program (UNDP)
Regarding the changes to the modelo de atenci6n, experts from the UNDP, PAHO, UNICEF and the
Pediatrics Society of Argentina contrasted the program's achievements with its design.
On one hand, the program achieved a strong appreciation of the first level of care, which was practically
non-existent in many jurisdictions before PROMIN was introduced. This concept of primary health care
was incorporated in the sector policy agenda, as was a focus on the integral nature of social programs for
poor populations. On the other hand, the panel confirmed that the Management Information System (MIS)
did not use very precise indicators; general indicators led to activities that maintained existing strategies.
The panel also questioned the appropriateness of implementing a new modelo de atencion in targeted
geographical areas, while not promoting this model in a universal context. Small, targeted interventions
were not seen as conducive to sustainability and major impact. Results would thus be fixed and limited to
very specific interventions.
PROMIN's principal function was to modify the supply of services through improving the conditions under
which services are provided, as well as through investments in improving management. However, the panel
emphasized the importance of re-orienting activities to respond to the demand. Knowledge of the demand is
related to local health management, community participation in identifying needs and use of management
information at the local level.
The panel also noted that the Ministry of Health, which finances the majority of medical residencies, could
become a means of directing human resources toward the first level of care. On the other hand, the panel
questioned the model of management centralized in the National Government through the PCU, which
encouraged the gap between the existing program(s) and PROMIN.
Finally, the panel recognized the existence of a "federal" state in which the provinces do not delegate to the
National Government the relevant aspects for health care. This implies difficulties in implementing this
type of program, given the differences noted among different jurisdictions and the inequities of the system.
Panel 3: Review of the PROMIN experience in terms of the new maternal and child policy
- Dra. Elsa Moreno, Director of Public Health - National University of Tucuman (former National
Secretary of Health; former Coordinator of the Maternal and Child Health Program for PAHO)
- Dr. Raul Mercer, Former head of the Maternal and Child Health Program, Province of Buenos Aires
- Lic. M6nica Rosenfeld, Consultant for the Secretariat of Political Science (former UNICEF
Project Officer)
- Dr. Mario Rovere, Coordinator of the Unit for Programs with External Financing, Ministry of
Social Development and the Environment
This panel of specialists emphasized the need to focus on demand, as opposed to supply. This would allow
a more flexible intervention that could better address the real needs of the population through community
-42 -



participation. In a certain sense, the presence of community education promoters in the child development
centers facilitated some intra-institutional activities in the community. However, these activities were
insufficient in terms of achieving a family-focused intervention; this would have required a strategy for
family intervention that would provide child development, utilizing the child development centers as a
complement.
The specialists felt that PROMIN should insist upon and ensure that the health centers work with the idea
of nominal responsibility for the population, benefiting from epidemiological and social knowledge of the
population. At the same time, the system should recognize the health centers' capacity for managing
reinvestments, imaging, consultations, etc. although not all satisfactorily.
The panel established that PROMIN was designed at a historical moment in which it was thought that the
vulnerability of the population and unemployment were temporary phenomena, caused by profound
transformations in the country's economy. Nevertheless, one now can see that those difficulties became
structural, which generated a high demand for all social programs, including PROMIN.
Furthermore, the panel noted the risk implied in social projects like PROMIN where external funds are
transferred from the National Government to the provinces, and then to the municipalities. In such a
transfer the financial relationships and capital investnents generally increase in importance above the
management capacity and institutional strengthening.
The panel recognized the importance of giving priority to reproductive health, promoting responsible
parenthood.  Today, when actions related to reproductive health are determined by jurisdictional
boundaries, denying a population this right indirectly promotes inequity.
Panel 4: Toward an intearated national maternal and child policy
- Lic. Pablo Vinocur. Coordinator of the Coordination Unit for Maternal and Child Health and
Nutrition Programs - National Ministry of Health
- Dr. Eduardo Bustelo. Secretary of Social Policies - Ministry of Social Development and Environment
- Lic. Ricardo Murtagh. Coordinator of the National Program for Priority Schools - National Ministry
of Education
Finally, this panel agreed that the dimension of the population's social needs obliges and commits the State
to re-establish social projects with greater inter-sectoral focus, especially among health, education and
social development.
- 43 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 29348
-,                 a    ~~~~~~~~~~~60
20      BOLIVIA            r       I
I2      < Slo       :    PARAGUAY
Y,, oScnl 4 siuiu  Cf-'-'t-,      *\ ._ B           R  A   Z   I  L
K     SSlso    /     \j(s       '
*Salto                -
54 L T                                     k
) r  ~ Tutjindn   IL H AC    '\.<
%5   ILL ' 2.';5S4p->r4TI4&Cl  Res.tten.aj .Posoda If
Sant oa del tiaa    0ar,en es
1@ -Il *I_,  s                       SM
1Jf.          t   :{  t" th               ,N
* SAN ~~~    Cordaba   NV
u     J Li AN  ;         Cordoba
O Sr An __     ,         Fe6
/     Kz S, ,  URUGUAY(
I Buenos AAres
PMEND Z A         'FN, )                            ,   ,
j        S a n tao  R a w .S   jII
-LNE0LE PEN' j   P    '
Neuquer              |-;
-40. ~ ~   (         N  t-      v  I.                                                                 .1 -idn
i_ _.------                            ARGENTINA
i,             S~~~~Roson
CH Li  T                                       Sj    PROVINCE CAPITALS
_  63  NATIONAL CAPIIAL
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
:  -  - -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
. S
A N T A
(     Cf 11 FFS'_-             tFL 'I AN D: L -I ND
I  -'i LA   I'  9 I
J;  SR Gallegos    ,                      G 100 200 3Q0 400 500 600 KILOMETERS
-                      *-'P **; I. r  I    0    100   200   300  4  0MAlU
= ' IThis map was produced by the Map Des.gn Una of The World Bcnk
,   hucshcs  1I R              The boundonez. coJari. donrn noaons and anyathe nlorn,ana, hoan
TI ERRA                    on Phis map do not Imply an rhe port oa The World Bank Group any
DEL FUEEGO                   Iudgminr on rht legl rtratus oony terraory. or any endorementl a,
acceptan,ce o such bou.,,dares
70                                    60'                                    50
APRIL19



