Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3643 AR
Loan Agreement
(Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 30, 1993
LOAN NUMBER 3643 AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 30, 1993, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted. 
Page  2
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions 
of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"MSAS" means Ministerio de Salud y Accion Social, the Borrower's Ministry 
of Health and Social Action;
(b)
"Municipal Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in 
paragraph (c) of Schedule 6 to this Agreement;
(c)
"Municipality" means any municipality, within a Province, where a 
Subproject shall be carried out;
(d)
"Operational Manuals" means the manuals, furnished by the Borrower, 
through SPCT, to the Bank by letter dated June 4, 1993, containing the rules and 
procedures to be followed in the preparation, execution, supervision and monitoring of 
Subprojects;
(e)
"Provincial Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(f)
"Province" means any of the Borrower's provinces of Buenos Aires, 
Cordoba, Entre Rios, Mendoza, Santa Fe or Tucuman, or any other of the Borrower's 
provinces that may be aproved by the Borrower and the Bank to replace any of the 
before-mentioned provinces, to the extent that it will carry out or is carrying out a 
Subproject;
(g)
"PCU" means the Project coordinating unit established pursuant to the 
Borrower's Presidential Decree No. 443, of March 16, 1993;
(h)
"SPCT" means MSAS' Secretariat of Technical Cooperation Projects 
(Secretaria de Proyectos de Cooperacion Tecnica);
(i)
"Subproject" means any of the projects, under Part A of the Project, 
which shall have been approved by the Borrower, through PCU, and the Bank; and
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred million Dollars 
($100,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Page  3
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 1 
and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (i) 
carry out Parts B and C of the Project; and (ii) cause, pursuant to the Provincial 
Agreements, the Provinces to carry out the Subprojects, all with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate  administrative, financial, health, 
nutrition and environmental practices and the provisions of the Operational Manuals, 
Page  4
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower, through MSAS, shall, for the purposes of the carrying out 
of the Subprojects, enter into agreements with the Provinces (the Provincial 
Agreements), under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include 
those set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall complete: (i) Part B.1 of the Project not later than 
March 31, 1997; (ii) Part B.2 of the Project not later than June 30, 1995; (iii) Part 
B.3 of the Project with respect to the first three Subprojects, not later than March 
31, 1997; and (iv) Part B.3 of the Project with respect to the remaining Subprojects, 
not later than June 30, 1999.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, at least during the execution of the Project:
(a)
maintain the PCU with the responsibility of assisting the Borrower and 
the Provinces in the carrying out of the Project in accordance, inter alia, with the 
provisions of Operational Manuals;
(b)
maintain the PCU with staff in number and with qualifications 
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c)
provide promptly as needed all the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required by the PCU to carry out its functions and responsibilities in a 
timely and efficient manner.
Section 3.04. When submitting a Subproject to the Bank for approval, the 
Borrower, through PCU, shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (a) an appraisal of the Subproject, and a 
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan; (b) a detailed description of how such Subproject meets the criteria and 
requirements set forth in the Operational Manuals; and (c) such other information as 
the Bank shall reasonably request in respect of such Subproject.
Section 3.05. The Borrower, through SPCT, shall, not later than October 1 of 
each year during the execution of the Project, submit to the Bank, for approval, the 
investment plan for the Project activities during the next succeeding year.
Section 3.06. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower, through SPCT, shall furnish to the Bank: (a) 
semestral reports on the physical and financial status of the Subprojects; (b) not 
later than October 1 of each year, a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall reasonably request, on the progress of the Project in the previous 
twelve-month period; and (c) not later than one month before the mid-term review 
referred to in Section 3.07 (b) of this Agreement, a report, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the progress of the Project and the 
attainment of its objectives, including, inter alia, the compliance with the 
performance indicators set forth in the Operational Manuals.
Section 3.07. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower, through the PCU, shall:
(a)
in the months of April and October of each year during the execution of 
the Project, undertake, jointly with the Bank, a review of the progress in the 
execution of the Project in the previous six-month period, such review to be based on 
the report referred to in Section 3.06 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)
in the 36th month after the Effective Date or promptly after one-half of 
the Loan amount has been disbursed, whichever occurs first, undertake, jointly with 
the Bank, a mid-term review of the progress of the Project and the attainment of its 
objectives during that period, such review to be based on the report referred to in 
Section 3.06 (c) of this Agreement; and
(c)
if, as a result of any of the reviews referred to in paragraphs (a) and 
(b) above, the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the progress in the 
execution of the Project or in the attainment of its objectives is not satisfactory, 
Page  5
the Borrower shall promptly take, or cause to be taken, all such remedial action, 
satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be necessary for the  efficient carrying out of the 
Project or for the attainment of its objectives.
Section 3.08. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Subprojects 
shall be carried out by the Provinces and, when applicable, by the Municipalities.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and separate accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of 
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof; and (ii) 
cause the Provinces and, when applicable, the Municipalities to maintain records and 
separate accounts adequate to eflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Subprojects of such Provinces 
and Municipalities.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any of the parties to any 
Provincial Agreement or any Municipal Agreement shall have failed to perform any of 
their respective obligations under any of such agreements.
Page  6
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that all action, satisfactory to the Bank, has been taken 
in order to permit the procurement of goods, works and consultants' services to be 
financed under the Loan in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in 
this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that all action referred to in 
Section 6.01 of this Agreement has been taken.
Section 6.03. The date November 30, 1993 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economia y Obras
   y Servicios Publicos
Hipolito Yrigoyen 250
Buenos Aires, Argentina
Telex:
(390) 21-952
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
Page  7
By /s/ Alberto Mazza
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ M. G. Sri-Ram Aiyer
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Subprojects under
    Part A of the
    Project:
    (a)  Goods (except        11,800,000        100%
         drugs and food)
    (b)  Works                35,000,000        100%
    (c)  Consultants'          4,600,000        100%
         services and
         training
(2) Goods and con-            12,000,000        100%
    sultants' services
    under Part B of
    the Project
(3) Consultants'              12,600,000        100%
    services under
    Part C.1 of the
    Project
(4) Consultants'               4,000,000        100%
    services under
    Part C.2 of the
    Project
(5) Unallocated               20,000,000
         TOTAL               100,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$10,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after February 1, 1993; and
(b)
expenditures under any Subproject, unless the relevant Provincial 
Agreement and, if applicable, the relevant Municipal Agreement have been entered into 
by the parties thereto.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  8
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are the improvement of the health and nutritional 
status of poor mothers and children and the promotion of comprehensive care and 
development of preschoolers in the Municipalities, and the institutional development 
of the Borrower's provinces in the area of maternal and child health and nutrition.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Carrying out of Subprojects consisting of the following activities:
1.
Investments in: (a) women's reproductive and child health care; (b) food 
supplementation for undernourished pregnant and lactating mothers, and children under 
six years of age; and (c) health and nutrition education and promotion, which will 
require the expansion, refurbishing, equipping or reequipping of existing health 
facilities, the hiring of additional staff, the purchase of drugs, 
medical supplies and food supplements, and the employment of consultants.
2.
Investments to support the mental and social development of children between the 
ages of two and five years, through the promotion of comprehensive care for such 
children, which will require the transformation of infant feeding programs and 
kindergartners into child development centers to provide, inter alia, meals, 
motivational activities, and preschool education.
3.
A training program, through courses, seminars and workshops, covering: (a) 
activities aimed at ensuring adequate preparation of Subprojects and the start-up of 
the implementation thereof; (b) management activities to reinforce the administrative 
capacity of the personnel involved in the carrying out of Subprojects; and (c) 
in-service training to provide knowledge and skills needed for
specific tasks under the Subprojects.
4.
Establishment of an integrated information system at the national, provincial, 
municipal and service delivery unit levels to cover the following areas related to the 
Subprojects: (a) administration and finance; (b) management; (c) service delivery 
monitoring; and (d) Subproject impact evaluation.
5.
A social communication program to disseminate information on the activities to 
be carried out under the Subprojects.
6.
Improvement of the overall efficiency and effectiveness of school feeding 
programs, through the provision of technical assistance in programming and management 
activities, targetting of Subproject beneficiaries, administration of kitchen and 
cafeteria services, and design and supervision of diets and menus.
7.
evaluation of school feeding programs and reforms to improve such programs' 
targeting and efficiency.
Part B:
1.
A nutrition survey at the national level.
 
2.
An evaluation of the food supplementation programs of selected Provinces.
 
3.
An evaluation of the impact of the Subprojects.
 
Part C:
1.
Coordination and supervision of the carrying out of the other Parts of the 
Project.
2.
Technical assistance to the Borrower's provinces (other than the Provinces) in 
the improvement of such provinces' management and operational capacity to carry out 
maternal and child health and nutrition programs and in the preparation of projects 
similar to the Subprojects.
* * *
Page  9
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
      Beginning May 1, 1999
      through November 1, 2008             5,000,000
