Page  1
August 8,  1995
His Excellency
Domingo F. Cavallo
Minister of Economy and
   Public Works and Services
Hipolito Yri-oyen 250
Buenos Aires, Argentina
Re:  Loan No. 3643-AR (Matemal and Child
Health and Nutrition Project): Amendment
Excellency:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement dated Aucust 30, 1993 between the Argentine 
Republic (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(the Bank) for the above-referenced Project, as amended.  Whenever used in this 
letter, the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings 
therein set forth.
In accordance with the request of PROMIN and following discussions between 
representatives of the Bank and the Ministry of Health, the Bank hereby a-rees further 
to amend the Loan Acreement as follows:
1.
Section 1.02 (i) is amended to read as follows:
"'Subproject' means any of the activities to be carried out under Part A 
and Part C.2 of the Project that has been approved in accordance with 
the provisions of Section 3.04 of this Agreement.
2.   Section 3.01 (a) is amended to  read  as  follows:
"The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this A-reement, and, to this end, shall: (i) 
carry out Parts B and C. 1 of the Project, and the Subprojects in Part C.2 
thereof under its responsibility; and (ii) cause, pursuant to the Provincial 
Aareements, the Provinces and Municipalities to carry out the Subprojects 
under Part A of the Project, and the Subprojects included in Part C.2 thereof 
under their responsibility, all with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, health, nutrition and 
environmental practices and the provisions of the Operational Manuals, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project."
3.
In Section 3.01 (b), after the word "Subprojects", the following 
expression is added:
"under Part A of the Project and those under Part C.2 thereof to 
be carried out by Provinces or Municipalities".
4.    Section 3.01 (c) is amended to read as follows:
"The Borrower shall complete: (i) Part B. 1 of the Project not later 
than 
September 30, 1998; (ii) Part B.2 of the Project not later than March 
31, 1996; (iii) Part B.3 of the Project not later than December 31, 1999; and 
(iv) Part B.4 of the Project not later than December 3i, 1996."
5.
Section 3.04 is amended to read as follows:
"The Borrower, throu-h the PCU, shall ensure that all Subprojects are 
prepared, executed, supervised and monitored in accordance with the relevant 
Operational Manuals and that they are approved in accordance with the 
following provisions:
(a)
Subprojects estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent 
each shall be approved by the PCU.  The PCU shall maintain the appraisal 
reports of such Subprojects and a description of the expenditures to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan for such Subprojects for the 
Page  2
Bank's ex-post review and shall furnish the Bank such other information 
about 
such Subprojects as the Bank may reasonably request in connection 
with such 
ex-post review.
(b)
Subprojects estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more 
each but less than $300,000 equivalent each shall be approved by the PCU 
and the Bank.  The PCU shall forward to the Bank the appraisal report 
for each such Subproject it recommends for approval, a description of 
the expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan for such 
Subproject, and a description of how the Subproject meets the criteria 
and requirements of the relevant Operational Manual.  The Subproject 
shall be deemed approved by the Bank if the Bank shall not have 
communicated its objection to the PCU in writing within two weeks of 
receipt by the Bank of the information referred to in the previous 
sentence, the date of receipt of the information by the Bank to be 
established by the Bank.
(c)
 Subprojects estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or more 
each shall be approved by the PCU and the Bank.  The PCU shall forward 
to the Bank the same information about such Subprojects it recommends 
for approval as set forth in paragraph (b) above and shall not finally 
approve such Subprojects until it has received the Bank's written 
no-objection in respect thereof."
6.
In Section 3.08, after the word "Subprojects", the following 
expression is added:
"to be carried out by Provinces or Municipalities".
7.
In paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 1, after the word 
"Subproject", the following expression is added:
"to be carried out by a Province or a Municipality".
8.
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement is amended as follows:
(a)
In Section 1, Part.  C.2 is amended to read as follows:
"Works and goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of 
$150,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$6,000,000 for works and $5,000,000 for goods, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
obtained from at least three contractors or suppliers, as the case may 
be, eliaible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank.
(b)
In Section 1, Part D. 1 (a) is amended to read as follows:
"With respect to: (i) each contract to be awarded pursuant to the 
provisions of Part A of this Section; (ii) each contract for works 
estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $500,000 to be awarded 
pursuant to the provisions of Part C. 1 of this Section; and (iii) the 
first contract for goods and for works to be awarded under each 
Subproject pursuant to the provisions of Part C.1 of this Section, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of the Guidelines shall 
apply.  Where payments for each such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the 
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in 
respect of such contract."
Please confirm your agreement with the amendments set forth above by signing the 
enclosed copy of this letter in the space provided and returning it to US.
Very truly yours,
Page  3
Alain Colliou
Acting Director
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
Domingo F. Cavallo
Authorized Representative
Date: October 24, 1995
