Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 1 7202-BIH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.7 MILLION
TO
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
FOR AN
EMERGENCY PILOT CREDIT PROJECT (REPUBLIKA SRPSKA)
April 1, 1998
Resident Mission Bosnia and Herzegovina
Private and Finanlcial Sectors Development Unit
Eul-ope and Central Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 19, 1998)
Currency Unit = Konvertible Marka (KM), equivalent 1:1 to Deutsche Mark
i KM    US$ 0.55
I US$   KM 1.82
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BH          Bosnia and Herzegovina
EBRD        European Bank for Reconstructioni and Development
EU          European Union
FRY         Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
FY          Fiscal Year
GAAP        Generally Accepted Accountinig Principles
IAS         International Accounting Standards
IDA         Internationial Development Association
IFC         Interinationial Finaince Corporation
IFI         International Financial Institutionis
IMF         I nterinationial Monetary FULnd*
NBRS        formier National Bank of Republika Srpska (Banja Luka)
NGO         Non-Gover-nmenital Organization
OHR         Office of the High Representative
PCU         Project Coordinationi Unit
RS          RepublikaSrpska
RSBA        RS Bankinig Supervisioin Agency (to be created)
SFOR        Stabilizatioii Force (NATO)
SOE         State-Owned Enterprise
SWIFT       Society for Worldwide Interbanik Financial TelecommunIlicatiolis
UNHCR       United Nations Highi Commissioner for Refugees
USAID       US Agenicy for Interinationial Development
Vice President      Johannes F. Linin, ECA
Country Director    Christiaani J. Poortman, ECCO4
Sector Director     lajos Bokros, ECSPF
Task Teamii l eader    Miclhael F. Koch. ECSPF/ECCBA



Bosnia-Herzegovina
Emergency Pilot Credit Project (Republika Srpska)
Project Appraisal Document
CONTENTS
A. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE .................................................................2
1. Project development objective and  key  performance  indicators .......................................2
B. STRATEGIC CONTEXT .................................................................2
I. Sector-related  CAS  goal supported  by the project ............................................................ 2
2. Main  sector issues and  Government strategy ................................................................. 2
3. Sector issues to  be addressed  by the project and  strategic choices ..............                                  .....................6
C. PROJECT  DESCRIPTION  SUMMARY  .................................................................8
1. Project componenits .................................................................8
2. Key policy and  institutional reforms supported  by the project ..................                                  .......................8
3. Benefits and  target population .................................................................8
4. Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ................................................................9
D.  PROJECT  RATIONALE ................................................................9
1. Project alternatives considered  and  reasons for rejection  .........................                           ........................9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies ..............    10
3. Lessons learned  and  reflected  in the proposed  project design .                                   ........................................ 10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and  ownership ...................................................... 10
5. Value added  of Bank  support in this project ................................................................   10
E. SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSES ................................................................                                                         11
1. Economic ....... .........................................................                                                            11
2. Financial ................................................................ 11
3. Technical ................................................................ I 1
4. Institutionial ................................................................                                                      12
5. Social ................................................................. 12
6. Environmenital assessment ................................................................                                           12
7. Participatory  approach                             2................................................................ l2
F. SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS ................................................................                                                         12
1. Sustainability ................................................................                                                      12
2. Critical risks ................................................................                                                      12
3. Specific  implementation  aspects ......................                             .......................................... 13
G. MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS ................................................................                                                             13
1. Effectiveness conditions ................................................................  13
2. Other .13
H.  READINESS FOR  IMPLEMENTATION  ................................................................ 13
I.   COMPLIANCE  WITH  BANK  POLICIES ................................................................ 13



- jj_-
Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Annex 5.      Summary Financial Statements of RS Banks
Annex 6.      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.          Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table A].          Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.          Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.          Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.      Documents in Project File
Annex 9.      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance
Map



Bosnia-Herzegovina
Emergency Pilot Credit Project (Republika Srpska)
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Bosnia and Herzegovina Country Unit
Date: February 23, 1998                                Task Team Leader: Michael F. Koch, ECSPF/ ECCBA
Country Director: Christiaan J. Poortman, ECCO4        Sector Director: Lajos Bokros, ECSPF
ID: BA-PE-50892         Sector: Financial              Program Objective Category: n.a.
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery Loan            Program of Targeted Intervention:   [ ]  Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data                  [] Loan       [X] Credit        [  Guarantee       [] Other [Specifyl
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$mlSDRm): SDR 3.7 m (US$ 5 million equivalent)
Proposed terms:                          []   Multicurrency       []  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10            []   Standard Variable  [1  Fixed             []    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: standard IDA
Service charge: standard IDA
Financinig plan (US$m):
Source                                Local              Foreign            Total
Government                                                    0.0                  0.0               0.0
Cofinanciers                                                  0.0                 15.0               15.0
IDA                                                           0.2                  4.8               5.0
Total         0.2                 19.8              20.0
Note: Funds for the line of credit component (80 percent of total project cost) were not split into local and foreign costs since
calculation of local costs was considered inappropriate given the lack of information on actual sub-loans at this stage. During
implementation, participating RS banks will ensure that sub-loan applications include the details of local costs along with a financing
plan. A local cost share for most sub-loans of between 30 and 50 percent is expected.
Borrower: Bosnia and Herzegovina, with on-lending to Republika Srpska and further to local commercial banks
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Finance of Republika Srpska: commercial banks of Republika Srpska
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):      1998        1999        2000
Annual     0.5         4.0         0.5
Cumulative     0.5         4.5         5.0
For Guarantees:                                   [ ]   Partial credit    [] Partial risk
Project implementation period: 20 months           Expected project completion date: December 31, 1999
Expected effectiveness date: May 15, 1998          Expected credit closing date: June 30, 2000
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 2 of 33
Country: Bosnia-Herzegovina                       Project Title: Emergency Pilot Credit Project (Republika Srpska)
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
*  The project's primary objective is to re-start and expand private enterprise activities in Republika Srpska
(RS) by way of resource transfer through medium-term loans from commercial banks. Key performance
indicators for participating RS enterprises: increased output, new employment, higher profits; improved
credit access.
*  Its secondary objective is to improve credit management capacity and loan administration skills of RS
banks, laying the foundation for more ambitious banking sector reforms under subsequent privatization-
related projects. Performance indicators for RS banks: lower loan delinquencies, higher realized interest
income.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 16866-BiH             Date of latest CAS discussion: August 28, 1997
The project supports the CAS goal to enhance sustainability of economic recovery and assist in transition to a
market economy by: (i) developing the private enterprise sector; and (ii) promoting a competitive, effective
financial sector with reduced government role in banking. Project is listed in the CAS as a priority operation
for RS, and is part of the agreed international reconstruction program for Bosnia and Herzegovina (BH).
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
(a) Strategic Setting
The project aims to rapidly inject financial resources into the RS private sector to re-start production and create
employment, without waiting for major enterprise and banking reform. The project draws on lessons from the
Bank's very successful emergency credit line in the Federation of BH, in operation since mid-1996.
(b) Enterprise Sector Development
This section summarizes key sector features and issues. Donor reports (Private Sector Assessment, FY97; RS
enterprise sector study, August 1997) and donors reports (USAID, see Annex 8) offer more background.
Background.  Two years after the end of hostilities, the RS enterprise sector is still characterized by
sluggishness due to war damage, impact of international sanctions, depletion of household savings, and little to
no investment. A privatization plan was developed in 1996 but has serious weaknesses (see below). The RS
population appears to be surviving on informal barter and trade, and with little financing from  banks.
Remittances from  abroad play a significant role in household incomes. Under these circumstances, the
economy is being partly privatized by default as the formal "socially-owned" sector stagnates.
GDP and Employment. The RS population equals about 1.4 million, the official labor force figure is 750,000.
1996 GDP in RS is estimated at US$759.5 million (US$543 per capita), up significantly (+28 percent) from
1995 but down from 1994 levels. The largest contribution to 1996 GDP (32 percent) came from  agriculture,
fisheries and forestry, followed by industry (27 percent). The highest growth in 1996 was also in agriculture
and forestry, followed by civil engineering, transport and telecommunications, and government social services
(although their financing is unclear). Total employment in 1996 was estimated at only 193,574, or 25 percent
of the RS work force. Industrial employment (manufacturing and mining) accounted for 39 percent of
employment, or 42 percent when including artisans and small-scale manufacturers. Based on official figures,
employment in the non-private sector dominates (89 percent), mostly in industry, education and health, and
government. However, given low contributions to GDP of these sub-sectors, work productivity appears low.
Formal employment in the private sector is in trade, crafts, higher value-added manufacturing and mining,
tourism and transport. In the informal sector, people are assumed to barter food products for other necessities,
and that trade factors into household incomes without registering in formal GDP or employment.
Enterprise Sector. RS has some 2,100 formally registered enterprises, more than half in private ownership.
Registered firms are primarily in industry and agriculture, also in transport, trade and construction/ engineering
(see Table 1). Most RS industry is small-scale by international standards, and does not represent the heavy
restructuring needs found in many ex-socialist economies where large industry was the heart of the economy.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 3 of 33
Country: Bosnia-Herzegovina                         Project Title: Emergency Pilot Credit Project (Republika Srpska)
To the contrary, formal sector statistics suggest that (i) most enterprises are comparatively small, (ii) a service
sector exists that is partly privatized already, and (iii) higher value-added is already being created in
agricultural and service sector activities when measured by value added and head count. The larger industrial
RS enterprises show low average capacity utilization rates of 25 to 30 percent. Leading sectors among larger
enterprises are textiles (garments and apparel), wood and paper products, and food processing. Five of 14
larger enterprises have head counts above 100, with the rest below, and as low as 20. Only one large
enterprise currently exports outside RS and FR of Yugoslavia, in the fruit and vegetable processing sub-sector.
None of these larger RS enterprises was among the leading revenue generators in BH prior to the war.
Table 1: Profile of RS Enterprises (1996)
Economic Sectors                      Number of Enterprises      Val. Added/  Employ./ Val. Added/
Total   Private  Nonpriv.   Enterprise Enterprise   Employee
Total, of which:                     2,102     1,078      1,024    (in '000)  (number)   (in '000)
Agriculture, Fishing, Forestry         587       311       276    $ 415.90        23.6    $ 17.64
Industry, Mining, SME Manufg         1,075       577       498    $ 193.41        76.1    $  2.54
Water, Electric Power                    6         -         6    $ 108.17        64.2    $   1.69
Housing, Construction, Engineering     128        56        72    $ 306.82        97.4    $  3.15
Transport & Telecommunications         109        58        51    $ 440.74       101.2    $  4.35
Trade                                  105        53        52    $ 565.26       151.3    $  3.74
Financial Services                      14        10         4    $2,690.86      181.2    $ 14.85
Tourism                                 45        13        32    $ 405.98       133.4    $  3.04
Education & Health                       -         -          -          n/a       n/a         n/a
Government                              33         -        33    $3,158.09     1503.9    $  2.10
Sources: Chamber of Economy-Banja Luka, Institute of Statistics-Banja Luka
Key Issues and Government Strategy. Since the start of conflict in 1991, the RS economy has evolved into a
small-scale, informal, private sector economy with the formal, non-private sector, reduced to a shell of its
former self. With low capacity utilization, low head count, and lost markets, the large industrial sector is
unlikely to recover its past position. More promising prospects lie in smaller scale enterprises active in food
processing, wood processing, pulp and paper, and needed services. While export markets may be difficult to
recapture for some time, many profitable RS enterprises are able to meet local market needs. Opening up trade
with neighboring countries, other than FR Yugoslavia, would assist substantially with economic revival.
To initiate enterprise reforn and privatization, RS Parliament adopted, in June 1996, the Law on Privatization
of Enterprises of RS. It deals with privatization of national enterprises, mixed ownership enterprises, and
other profit-making judicial persons. Excluded are infrastructure and strategic enterprises. The basic concept
is that the bulk (47 percent) of ownership will be allocated to seven Privatization Funds (shares in these funds
would not have voting rights), a further 15 percent will transferred to a State Capital Fund which can then sell
shares against cash, while the balance (38 percent) will be randomly distributed (free of charge) to all resident
citizens in RS.
Along with other donors, the Bank has pointed out to the RS authorities the serious weaknesses of the
privatization model proposed: It is not equitable, as citizens have no choice in the composition of their initial
portfolio and the mechanisms to trade positions do not exist; it is not transparent unless the integrity of the data
collection, enterprise valuation and the random generator to assign shares to citizens is independently verified;
and it gives unfair advantage to the few individuals who have privileged access to information.
The new RS authorities, in place since January 1998, are committed to reach an understanding with donors
involved (primarily the Bank. US, UK) on the enterprise privatization framework by developing new
privatization legislation and strengthening the RS enterprise privatization agency. The Bank carries out this
dialogue through preparatory work for a proposed enterprise and bank privatization sector adjustment credit
which will follow this proposed credit line project (see section B.3).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 4 of 33
Country: Bosnia-Herzegovina                        Project Title: Emergency Pilot Credit Project (Republika Srpska)
(c) Financial Sector Development
For details beyond this summary, consult Bank reports (RS financial sector study, August 1997) and donor
reports (USAID-financed diagnostic audits of RS banks, August 1997; US Treasury reports; see Annex 8).
Background. Prior to the war, the area of today's RS had nine banks with less than US$1.5 billion in assets.
Most RS banks had been part of the Privredna and Jugobanka systems of former Yugoslavia. Under the model
of "social ownership," Yugoslav banks served as captive finance companies, lending to their socially-owned
enterprise owners and providing deposit services, pension payment services, and other basic safekeeping
functions. Banks followed a non-commercial orientation characterized by connected lending, excess loan
concentration, distorted classification, and a passive administrative role in disbursing loans to their owners.
On the asset and revenue side, little to no financial analysis was involved in assessing risk. Principal when due
was frequently rolled over without evidence of debtors' ability to repay. Interest was often capitalized. When
enterprises needed further funds, they were often able to obtain them from those banks which they commonly
owned. Banks took out mortgages and liens on borrowers, but collateral values are of dubious quality due to
problems of perfection and inability to control collateralized properties. The judicial structure was not set up
to enforce contracts or resolve disputes in favor of creditors. These factors led to a passive banking system in
which banks neither lent according to commercial criteria, nor monitored risk once loans were disbursed.
On the liability and cost side, banwks provided safekeeping services for enterprises and households. However,
as elsewhere in former Yugoslavia, foreign currency deposits were physically transferred to the vaults of the
former National Bank of Yugoslavia in Belgrade in exchange for local currency. Hyperinflation from the late
1980s into the 1990s erased local currency values, and with it the savings and confidence of the public.
Subsequent conflict led to a curtailment of international lending flows which had been routinely passed
through the domestic banking system to finance large enterprise projects. By the end of the war in late 1995,
these general trends, combined with the imposition of sanctions, led to a loss of liquidity and a virtual halt to
banking operations in BH in general, and in RS in particular. Meanwhile, high cost structures of socially-
owned banks relative to volume of banking activity dried up additional scarce resources.
Monetary System. In June 1997, BH State Parliament passed the law establishing the new Central Bank of
BH, as set out in the Datyon-Paris Peace Accords of November 1995. Key objectives of the BH Central Bank
are: (i) maintaining the stability of the local currency -- the new "convertible mark" -- by operating as a
currency board; (ii) establishing BH-wide payments systems; and (iii) coordinating bank supervision agencies
in both BH  Entities.  Banks will be required to place interest-bearing reserves with the Central Bank
equivalent to up to 15 percent of deposits and borrowed funds denominated in convertible marks. Through
late 1997, the RS economy has used the Yugoslav dinar as legal tender, and accepted hard currency (mostly
Deutsche Mark) as well. While Yugoslav dinars will still be accepted in RS, the legal tender will become
convertible marks. The "National" Bank branch in Banja Luka (NBRS), which serves defacto as a branch for
the National Bank of Yugoslavia for monetary and banking supervision matters, will become part of the new
BH Central Bank.
Interest Rates. In late 1997, RS interest rates mirror those for Yugoslav dinar transactions in Belgrade.
NBRS charges banks 4 percent per month for supplied dinars (the discount rate). Commercial banks charge
loan interest at their discretion; observed rates are 5 to 6 percent per month. For dinar deposits, NBRS
prescribes rates to be paid by banks, ranging from 3.5 to 5 percent per month. For foreign currency deposits,
rates paid are close to comparative rates in that foreign country where currency is issued. DEM-based loan
interest rates range between 0.75 to 2.0 percent per month, the major source of interest income for RS banks.
Banking Regulation and Supervision. As of late 1997, NBRS has a staff of 37, of which I I are involved in
banking supervision. NBRS monitors RS bank liquidity, solvency, and compliance with regulations, based on
regular reporting from the banks: daily liquidity, savings information every 10 days, monthly bookkeeping
accounts, quarterly loan information, and annual financial statements. NBRS staff conduct periodic on-site
visits to review compliance. However, prevailing RS banking regulations are insufficient to establish prudent
risk management: loan loss provisioning and loan write-offs are not in line with international standards.
Actual supervision also tends to be: (i) purely quantitative, reduced to compliance monitoring, rather than
reviewing qualitative portfolio issues that might adversely impact individual banks and the system at large; and
(ii) ex post, rather than taking a preventive approach to risk management.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 5 of 33
Country: Bosnia-Herzegovina                        Project Title: Emergency Pilot Credit Project (Republika Srpska)
Payment System The remnants in the RS of the former Yugoslav payments system were turned into a "bank"
on January 1, 1997, the Serbian State Bank (Srpska Drzavna Banka). This is viewed as a first step towards
integrating transfers and payments into the banking system, would comply with BH Central Bank Law in
honoring convertible mark for transactions, and is expected to add efficiency and reduce delays. However, so
far, there has been little activity integrating RS payments and banking systems. and poor linkage between RS
and Federation payments systems. RS banks to re-join SWIFT payment system, under new BH Central Bank.
The Banking Sector. RS banks face several serious issues: negative capital after write-offs, negative deposit
mobilization, absence of a viable interbank and bond market, financial disintermediation, a small range of
banking services, and loss of public confidence. These issues are rooted in three causes: (i) bank ownership
structures and resulting credit misallocation, leading to a portfolio of non-performing loans; (ii) problems
associated with the dissolution of forner Yugoslavia, including freezing of foreign currency accounts in RS
banks: and (iii) the impact of war and sanctions whichi reduced economic activity, required citizens to deplete
their savings, and accelerated the loss of traditional markets for agricultural and industrial products.
There are 14 commercial banks in RS: eight are remnants of the forner Privredna and Jugobanka networks;
four are majority privately-owned; two are state-owned and represent the postal savings and payments systems
of forner Yugoslavia. Prior to write-offs, four state-owned banks (Banja Luka, Privredna-Doboj, Cristal
Banka, Prijedorska). account for 80 percent of assets, 84 percent of loans, 77 percent of deposits, and 70
percent of shareholders' equity at end-1996. Private banks (Agropromn, West, Export, and Ekvator) account
for less than 2 percent of assets, 4 percent of loans, 1 percent of deposits, and 9 percent of equity. Branch
coverage in RS is good (54 bank branches, or one per 26,000 inhabitants). Earnings of RS banks are poor in
relation to western norms and local historical norms. Interest income is low due to non-performing assets. Fee
income is dependent on a few vulnerable areas such as funds transfers from abroad. Liquidity is marginally
adequate, but does not support increased investments. Funds management does not maximize earnings.
In mid-1997, NBRS commissioned diagnostic studies of RS banks carried out with US expert support. While
falling short of full-fledged international audits, the studies reviewed banks' financial and operating conditions
and managerial soundness. ("Enhanced" supervisory in-depth reviews of RS banks, by US experts, are to
follow by early-1998.) The diagnostics provide restructured balance sheets in line with draft legislation for
bank reform in the Federation of BH (see below). The studies indicate the need for US$1.1 billion in write-
offs for doubtful assets (Table 2). This would reduce aggregate RS bank capital from US$103 million to an
' adjusted" negative US$1.1 billion, representing write-offs on frozen foreign currency claims (US$1 billion),
unrecognized losses on 'inactive" assets (US$123 million, mostly loans to SOEs), and loss provisions on
active loans (US$26 million). Without debt relief on frozen foreign exchange deposits and loans from IFIs
and foreign banks, seven of the eight non-private RS banks would be insolvent. In contrast, with proposed
debt relief on these inactive liabilities, all RS banks would likely manage to remain solvent, although with low
average capital of US$3.6 million, 80 percent of which would represent non-revenue generating fixed assets.
Table 2: Summary Estimated Balance Sheet Profile of RS Banks, end-1996
(US$ million)           Loans            Assets           Deposits                Capital
Total   Active   Total   Active   Total   Active   Book    Adjusted   w/ Debt
Relief
Non-private banks     284.8   56.3   1,285.8   126.3  1,019.9    34.2       94.1 (1,088.4)     40.5
Private banks           9.9    9.9       16.4   16.1       3.7     3.7       9.1       7.5      7.5
Total                 294.7   66.2   1,302.2   142.4  1,023.6    37.9    103.2 (1.080.9)       48.0
o/w non-private      96.6%   85.0%    98.7%   88.7%    99.6%   90.2%      91.1%    100.7%    84.4%
o/w private            3.4%   15.0%     1.3%   11.3%     0.4%    9.8%      8.9%     -0.7%     15.6%
Sources: NBRS-Banja Luka and USAID/Barents Group. Final data subject to full-scale international audits.
Key Issues and Government Strategy. Banking reforn in BH is an internal Entity matter. However, the aim is for
RS to adopt similar reforn as in the Federation of BH (see below). Next to legislation for independent banking
supervision agency for RS, needed legal and regulatory reforms include: (i) severance of, or limits on ownership of
banks by enterprises; (ii) definitions of capital and capital adequacy in accord with international standards; (iii) limits
on lending and loan concentration, above all to connected parties; (iv) enforcement of internationally accepted loan



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 6 of 33
Country: Bosnia-Herzegovina                        Project Title: Emergency Pilot Credit Project (Republika Srpska)
classification standards that reflect risk; (v) more forthright provisioning for and recognition of loan losses; and (vi)
greater emphasis on accountability and disclosure. A subset of IAS is considered to be introduced in the Federation
to reform the accounting framework. To date, there are no major international accounting firms in BH, and the audit
profession is insufficiently developed in RS.
RS is in the process of quantifying the value of wage arrears, pensions, restitution and other claims on the
government, in addition to frozen foreign currency deposits. It is certain that RS lacks financial resources and tax
base to provide financial compensation for these claims. Consequently, RS launched a privatization process partly
designed to compensate the population with enterprise and housing assets to resolve claims. In light of war damage
and a sluggish economy, it is highly questionable if such claims can be fully met by transferring non-private assets.
Contested ownership rights and restitution claims from earlier inhabitants of some of the housing stock offered
complicate matters. RS also inherited some US$ 220 million in obligations to IFIs, Paris and London Club creditors
which were lent to SOEs with little chance of recovery. Discussions have taken place at the BH State level with
official and unofficial creditors, leading to clearance of arrears with the Bank (in February 1996) and agreement with
the London Club (in December 1997). Final agreement between Entities and BH State on the split of the foreign
debt has yet to be reached.
Since 1996, donors have assisted both Entities to develop a strategy for banking sector reform, based on five laws:
on opening balance sheets of enterprises and banks; commercial banking; privatization of banks; a revised
accounting framework; and establishment of Entity-based banking supervision agencies. The approach chosen is for
Entity governments to relief their banks of liabilities towards the population (frozen foreign exchange deposits) and
foreign creditors, and to take over corresponding bank assets (foreign exchange claims on the National Bank in
Belgrade, and long-term loans to SOEs financed by foreign borrowings). After financial restructuring, solvent banks
are to be privatized and insolvent ones to be liquidated. Much progress has been made in the Federation of BH to
pass these laws and establish an effective banking supervision agency (supported by USAID), and the full
framework is expected to become operational by early 1998. In the RS, with the exception of a new Banking Law
(January 1996), all above laws have yet to pass the government and Parliament. Nevertheless, RS authorities are
committed to speedy banking reform and privatization. Table 3 summarizes main financial sector reform elements in
RS.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed project is of an emergency and pilot nature, aiming to quickly restore and expand operations of some
viable enterprises in RS, without waiting for major reforms in the banking and enterprise sectors. The project aims
to test an approach of quickly injecting financial capital for productive purposes in the majority-Serb part of BH
which, since 1996, economically lags behind the Federation of BH. Given this context, the project has been
designed based on lessons learned under the similar and very successful credit line project in the Federation of BH,
the Emergency Recovery Project (ERP, FY96, Report No. P-6780-BA). Accordingly, the objectives of the proposed
project are limited to that of a timely and efficient transfer of credit resources to profitable businesses in the RS. The
project is not a vehicle to further financial or enterprise reform in the RS, as would be expected under more normal
circumstances. Such reforms will be addressed separately under a subsequent proposed Enterprise and Bank
Privatization Adjustment Credit (FY 98) which is under preparation.
Therefore, most above sector constraints and issues remain outside the scope of the project. Nevertheless, in the
absence of structural adjustment, the project supports some necessary institutional underpinnings for banking reforn
in RS. Through technical assistance to participating commercial banks, the project will assist in transferring credit
management skills and systems, improving financial management and performance, and enhancing management
decision-making capacity. Such support is likely to make RS banks more competitive as the environment becomes
more conducive to market-based principles, and as regulatory enforcement in support of safe and sound banking
systems becomes more prevalent. Furthermore, the project supports the development and strengthening of proper
banking supervision in RS. First, passage of a law for a RS Banking Supervision Agency will be a condition of
effectiveness of the IDA credit. Second, technical assistance to be provided by bilateral donors will support
establishment and operations of the new agency.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                    Page 7 of 33
Country: Bosnia-Herzegovina                          Project Title: Emergency Pilot Credit Project (Republika Srpska)
Table 3: Main Elements for Financial Sector Development in RS
Areas of Progress                           Areas of Risk
1. ECONOMIC INCENTIVES AND THE MACROECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
Prices in Goods and    Prices in RS liberalized. harmonization of
Factor Markets        customs rates with Federation under way
Exchiange Rate        RS monetary system to become currency
board arrangement; convertible mark to be
legal tender at 1:1 with DEM, backed by
hard currencies
Macroeconomic         Currency board arrangement to provide     Risks are that (i) there may be attempts to
Stability             stable currency: Governor of BH Central   introduce subsidies to jump-start production
Bank appointed by IMF for six years; fiscal  in industry (but: budgetary resources not
deficits expected to be low (IMF          available); (ii) an unsuitable enterprise and
agreement); aim to is to avoid excessive  bank privatization program moves forward;
cost of financial sector restructuring through  and (iii) because of the first two, crowding
asset & liability carve-outs              out of new private sector occurs
11. FINANCIAL SECTOR POLICIES
Interest Rates        Currency board should help reduce potential  Very high rates for loans, reflecting scarcity
for interest rate distortions; banks are  of funds plus coverage of other costs; rates
permitted to price loans freely          low and fixed on deposits, risk of persistent
rejection of convertible mark and continued
reliance on the FRY dinar
Directed Credit       Not prevalent under current conditions    Existed on limited basis; risk of re-
introduction using donor funds
Targeted Credit       Not prevalent under current conditions    Risk of credit subsidies to jump-start
Subsidies                                                       production in industry and agriculture
Instruments of        No reserve requirements at present; new   Unclear if any credit ceilings are imposed
Monetary Control      currency board arrangement introducing    on RS banks, although in current
modest requirements (10-15 percent)       environment this is of little concern
Tlaxtation of         Tax rates not out of line with international    Problems associated with provisioning
Financial             standards (33% in 1996), no discriminatory   standards, write-offs, general accounting
Institutions and      or preferential taxation of the financial  framework and determination of real profits
Transactions          sector
Ill. ACCOUNTING, LEGAL AND REGUlLATORY INFRASTRUCTtJRE
Accounting, Auditing  US-financed advisory team in place to     Current standards do not conform with IAS
and Disclosure        reform accounting and audit laws and      nor GAAP; RS will need to pass new laws,
Stan dardsfor         regulations in the Federation of BH, to be  adopt new standards, promote audit
Businesses            adopted subsequently by RS                profession; poor disclosure standards
Legal Frameworkfor  New contract, bankruptcy, and collateral    Former Yugoslav laws are inadequate to
Businesses            laws under preparation in the Federation, to  assure speedy and impartial settlement of
be adopted subsequently by RS             RS banks' claims against borrowers
Competitive Business  New foreign investment law under          Entry of foreign enterprises and banks
Framework             preparation in the Federation, to be adopted   constrained by uncertain legal environment
subsequently by RS
Financial Sector      RS Banking Law (January 1996) passed; RS  RS lagging behind Federation in banking
Regulatory            willing to harmonize banking laws with    reform and supervision; little progress on
Framework and         Federation, set up bank supervision agency;  laws to restructure balance sheets and
Reform Strategy       RS bank audits useful to determine non-   privatize banks; risks regarding
performing assets, provisions and write-  enforcement of new standards when
offs; new BH Central Bank plus            adopted, particularly connected lending,
developments in Federation provide an     information disclosure; poor financial sector
incentive to RS to accelerate reforms     infrastructure, no security market



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Page 8 of 33
Country: Bosnia-Herzegovina                        Project Title: Emergency Pilot Credit Project (Republika Srpska)
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2/br a detailed description and Annex 3/for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component                 Category       Cost Incl.  00 of T   Bank-financ   % of Ban
Contingencies            (US$M)    financin
(US$M)
Line of credit                      credit                16.0         80        4.5          90
Bankers' training                   inst. building        1.0          5         0.0          0
Enterprise support                  inst. building        1 .0         5         0.0          0
Banking supervision                 inst. building        1.0          5         0.0          0
Implementation support              project mgt.          1.0          5         0.5          10
T        20.0       1  00        5.0         100
*  Line of credit: about 130 sub-loans to small and mediumn-size private RS enterprises, financing pernanent
working capital, repairs and investments in the light manufacturing and agro-processing sectors
*  Bankers' training: on-the-job training for about 20 staff members in 3 to 5 participating RS banks
* Enterprise support: business advisory services for about 200 RS enterprises applying for sub-loans
*  Banking supervision: on-the-job staff training and equipment for the RS banking supervision agency
*  Implementation support: TA, incremental operating costs, equipment of the project coordination unit
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by tle project (see Section B.3for details):
* transferring loan evaluation skills, developing loan administration and monitoring systems. improving
financial management, and enhancing management decision-making capacity of RS banks
*  supporting the development and strengthening of banking supervision in RS.
3. Benefits and target population:
Immediate benefits: increased economic activity, employment, and income, resulting fronm some 130 first-round
sub-loans (average size of US$120,000), benefiting some 12 percent of currently registered RS private enterprises.
Resulting investments would create some 1,500 new industrial jobs in the first cycle (at US$ 11,000 investment per
job), in addition to indirect job creation through sector linkages. Principal and interest to revolve for further loans
and benefits. Private sector investments to be financed are expected to have very high rates of return because
(i) virtually no credit capital is currently available from RS banks even for most profitable undertakings; and
(ii) credit evaluation and project selection will be subject to double screening by the participating and risk-
assuming RS banks and, subsequently, by expatriate experts in the project coordination unit.
Beyond direct benefits, the project would contribute to the larger agenda of banking sector reform  in RS by:
(i) enhancing banks' credit management capacity through the full credit cycle; (ii) reducing banks' loan
delinquencies and raising interest income from lending; (iii) re-establishing normal commercial credit relations
between banks and enterprises; and (iv) strengthening the capacity of bank supervisors to monitor bank
performance according to market-based prudential regulations and accounting frameworks. The project would
also improve RS enterprise capacity to devise suitable strategies and business plans, thereby enhancing their
prospective credit worthiness, ability to attract equity investment, and overall prospects for competitiveness.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period: April 1998 - December 1999
Onlending Arrangements. The IDA Credit would be provided to (the State of) Bosnia and Herzegovina which
will onlend proceeds to RS. RS would on-lend IDA funds to participating RS commercial banks through the credit
line section of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU), RS Ministry of Finance, already established under a previous
Bank project. Banks to make loans to RS businesses as final project beneficiaries. Borrowing enterprises assume
any currency risks. Banks assume the full credit risk on all sub-loans they sponsor and decide to finance through
the project. Institutional arrangements are based on lessons learned under the credit line in the Federation of BH.
PCU credit line section, beyond first round of sub-loans, to be transferred to an RS bank or to be converted into an
RS finance corporation with majority-private ownership.



Project Appraisal Document                                                            Page 9 of 33
Country: Bosnia-Herzegovina                      Project Title: Emergency Pilot Credit Project (Republika Srpska)
Participating RS Banks. Banks under the project would be licensed in RS, operate for at least two years, and
remain in compliance with RS regulations. Banks are expected to have positive net capital after financial
restructuring and debt relief, based on the US-financed "enhanced supervisory reviews" (see section B.2). Banks
are to devote adequate resources to the project, join staff training under the project, and participate fully in a
subsequent Bank-supported banking privatization program.  Primarily based on qualitative aspects of bank
management and the level of experience and readiness for training of bank staff in the credit departments
(available in project files), the following RS banks have been selected at appraisal to participate in the project.
capable of covering all RS regions: Banjalucka Banka; Cristal Banka; Semberska Banka; and Agroprom Banka.
With mutual agreement between the Bank and RS, the list of participating banks could be changed/ expanded
during implementation. See Annex 2 for a description of eligible RS businesses, eligible projects, terms and
conditions of sub-loans, and credit repayment arrangements.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements. The PCU credit line section would be responsible
for keeping all project records and accounts. Adequate accounting and financial records have been established in
the PCU. The project would finance technical assistance to establish a sub-loan data base and payment tracking
system, flagging any delinquencies of banks or their sub-borrowers. Participating banks would provide the PCU
with detailed monthly schedules on the repayment status of their sub-loans. The PCU would handle credit
disbursements and management of the Special Account and local project account. The State Ministry of Foreign
Trade and Economic Relations would arrange for annual financial project audits.  The new RS Banking
Supervision Agency would provide semi-annual financial statements of participating RS banks, and arrange for
international external audits of these banks once donor financing is secured.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements. Supervision would be carried out from the Bank's Resident Mission
in BH which would review, prior to disbursement, all first cycle sub-loans financed by the Bank or by cofinanciers
using Bank-administered trust funds. Audits of sub-loans would be carried out by the expatriate experts in the
PCU, supported by SFOR personnel on the ground. The Bank would monitor the restructuring of participating
banks under the proposed subsequent adjustment operation.
Role of Cofinanciers: Cofinancing for sub-loans (sought: US$1 1.5m) would likely stem from bilateral sources
through Bank-administered trust funds. Financing of the three institution building components is expected through
parallel financing from bilaterals engaged in this area (in particular the US and Sweden).
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Project Timing: Delay project until Enterprise and Bank Privatization Adjustment Credit (FY 98) is in place.
international bank audits are -:arried out in the RS, RS enterprise and banking reform legislation is enacted, and
institutional development plans for RS banks are agreed. This was rejected given the urgency of jump-starting RS
enterprise activity, the positive experience gained from the Federation credit line, and value expected from on-the-
job training of bankers prior to financial restructuring.
Risk Exposure of Banks: Reduce role of RS banks to that of agents (as under a USAID credit line), given their
limited current credit evaluation and risk administration skills. This was rejected: RS banks would have to assume
the full credit risk so as to have adequate incentives for credit recovery.
Project Beneficiaries: Allowing socially-owned/ state enterprises as sub-loan recipients was rejected in light of a
sufficiently large number of registered private-sector manufacturing enterprises in RS. Targeting of sub-loans for
manufacturing is considered necessary to help jump-start productive activities in the RS, given the exclusive focus
of informal short-term financing on trade and commerce activities.
Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans: Longer sub-loan maturities of up to five years were considered but rejected
to allow for faster reflows and additional beneficiaries in a shorter period of time. Bidding by banks for loan
funds, and subsequent market-based pricing of sub-loans was rejected due to the absence of any term credit
financing and applicable reference interest rates in the RS.
Institutional/FinancialArrangements. Establishment of a new financial institution as an apex for RS banks was
rejected given an 'over-banked' situation in RS and the need for quick project start-up. Direct lending by the IDA
to RS banks is not an option due to banks' poor financial health and managerial soundness.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Page 10 of 33
Country: Bosnia-Herzegovina                         Project Title: Emergency Pilot Credit Project (Republika Srpska)
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank andlor othler development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue           Project Name/ Type              Latest Superv. (Form 590) Rating
limpl.Progress (IP   Devel.ObJec. (DO
Bank-financed
Decapitalization of enterprise sector,    Emerg.Recovery Project, credit  HS (credit line  HS (credit line
lack of credit resources of banks  line (US$ 45rn, Feb. 1996)      component)        component)
Lack of access to credit for micro-  Local Initiatives Project (micro
enterprises                       credits, US$ 7m, Dec. 1996)           S                 S
Banking sector and enterprise reform    Enterprise and Bank Privatiz.
(in both BH Entities)             Adjustment Credit (FY98)
Other development agencies
Decapitalization of enterprise sector,   USAID credit line (up to US$
lack of credit resources of banks  250m for 3 years)
Decapitalization of enterprise sector,    Horizonte Fund (IFC USS 2m,
lack of equity and risk capital   EBRD US$ 5m)
Lack of access to credit for SMEs   Micro-Credit Bank (IFC and
EBRD, capital of US$ 2m)
Decapitalization of Fed. & RS banks    EBRD capital investments
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Under credit line component of Emergency Recovery Credit (ERP, Credit No. 024030-BiH), 200 business loans
have been extended, since mid-1996, through 28 commercial banks in the Federation. Aggregate loan value is
DEM 38.7m (US$22.5m), committing available Bank and donor resources within 15 months. Average sub-loan
size is DEM 200,000 at a maximum term of 2 years. Half of resources allocated for food and wood processing, 15
percent for building materials sector. Only one sub-loan classified as non-performing. This line of credit
component has been a success since it is tailored to the specific post-conflict setting of Bosnia, with a visible,
immediate and sustained impact on economic production in the Federation and demonstrated improvement of
banks' ability to evaluate and supervise their loan portfolios. Loan reflows have started to revolve for further
loans. (Detailed supervision reports on the ERP are in the project files.)
Lessons from the ERP: (i) in the absence of bank audits, select banks based on diagnostic reviews by expatriate
experts; (ii) concentrate on few suitable banks to maximize impact of bank training; (iii) banks to take the full
credit risk; (iv) consider first-ranking rights to loan collateral of enterprises by the project unit to reduce possible
losses and strengthen banks' incentives for loan collections; (v) introduce penalties for past-due payments by banks
to PCU; (vi) develop sub-loan monitoring program for PCU before donor funding begins; (vii) de-politicize sub-
loan approvals in PCU through a Loan Committee composed of technical experts; (viii) introduce standardized
credit applications, environmental checklists, and reporting formats for banks; and (ix) consider sustainability of
revolving credit program past the first loan cycle.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
During June 1997 CAS discussions, RS authorities stressed their interest to quickly start up this project. In
anticipation of the need for RS bank audits for preparation of this project, RS authorities requested US-financed
diagnostic studies of all RS banks to take place by mid-1997. Strong interest in the project by all RS banks and RS
businesses visited, reconfirmed during field studies in May 1997. A sector report and credit line feasibility study
by USAID (April 1997) comes to the same conclusions. RS government and banks expressed desire for
substantially more funds than envisaged under the project.
5. Value added of Bank support in tltis project:
The Bank brings to the process of economic reconstruction of RS the required confidence for other donors to join
investments in this part of BH. Without the Bank, it is likely that few resources would be mobilized for business
development and financial sector reforms in RS. The Bank's experience from the ERP credit line in the Federation



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 11 of 33
Country: Bosnia-Herzegovina                       Project Title: Emergency Pilot Credit Project (Republika Srpska)
is highly valuable to start up the proposed RS project. The US-financed credit line program in the Federation has
been extended into RS, however under an unchanged premise of limiting role of banks to agents of USAID. In
contrast, the proposed project has RS banks evaluate and sponsor any loans, with banks taking the full credit risk,
thus providing a preferable incentive framework. The proposed project with sub-loans up to DEM 250,000 would
complement the larger US loans ranging from DEM 200,000 to DEM I million and above.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annlex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[ ] Cost-Benefit Analysis    [ ] Cost Effectiveness Analysis
[X] Other: economic analysis is not applicable
The project could be considered as neutral in its direct fiscal impact. While there would be incremental inflows
from enterprise taxes, less than full collection of taxes is likely to erode some of these revenues. Incremental
operating costs to implement the project would be covered by donors.
Debt service coverage ability has been demonstrated for II sample sub-loans in RS. Debt service coverage ratios
(incremental cash earnings before interest/ principal and interest on sub-loans) for all sample projects were equal or
above 1.3/1, demonstrating viability of sample investments at the sub-loan terms assumed (3 year maturity, 6
months principal grace, 3 months interest grace, 9 percent interest p.a.). The sample projects would create one
incremental job per US$10,800 invested and US$0.90 in export revenues per dollar invested. Sub-loans would
mostly be used for permanent working capitai to re-start enterprise operations.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
The financial condition of RS banks is evaluated based on USAID-financed diagnostic studies of all RS banks
carried out in August 1997. More in-depth "enhanced" supervisory reviews are to be carried out be early 1998.
End-1996 published and adjusted summary bank financials are in Annex 5; individual RS bank data are in the
files. Adjusting book capital for "inactive" assets (foreign exchange claims on National Bank of Yugoslavia, loans
to SOEs) and for loss provisions on active loans and off-balance sheet items would make seven out of eight non-
private banks insolvent, while the four private banks remain solvent. Relieving RS banks of their inactive
liabilities (frozen foreign exchange deposits, loans from foreign lenders) would turn all RS banks solvent again,
although on a low capital base. Without financial restructuring to take place along the lines set for the Federation
of BH, the seven largest non-private banks in the RS have no prospect of survival.
All RS banks have largely inadequate corporate governance and financial risk management. Connected lending to
enterprise-shareholders and lack of independent supervision of bank management characterize non-private and
private banks alike. Strategic and business planning is poor, management is reactive and does not delegate
responsibilities. Internal and external audits are inadequate or non-existing. Non-private banks are unprepared for
anticipated privatization. Institutional development plans for RS banks need to be developed after the bank
restructuring and privatization framework has been agreed and put in place by the government.
3. Techlnical:
Not applicable.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: RS banks are institutionally weak and require institutional development through new and
qualified management, staff training, technical assistance, twinning arrangements, internal and external audits, and
strengthened banking supervision. Banks participating in the project would start to undergo institutional change
and operational improvement through on-the-job staff training and expert advice in the areas of credit
management, asset and liability management, and adherence to new prudential regulations.
b. Project management: Given banks' weakness, all sub-loan requests sponsored by participating banks will be
reviewed by the credit line section of the PCU through a Credit Committee. Technical assistance to the PCU from
experienced credit advisors who are members of the Credit Committee would ensure high quality of sub-loans and
approvals based on market-oriented, non-political considerations. Prior Bank review of all first-cycle sub-loans



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 12 of 33
Country: Bosnia-Herzegovina                        Project Title: Emergency Pilot Credit Project (Republika Srpska)
financed out of Bank resources would ensure an independent review of the viability of sub-loans. The Project
Implementation Plan details specific responsibilities for project management.
5. Social:
Not applicable.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category          [] A    [] B    [XI C
Given the emergency conditions prevailing in RS, and the working capital and small repair focus of the sub-loans
to be financed, it is proposed that (i) loan agreements specify required information addressing environmental
assessment issues; (ii) banks compile necessary information to ensure each enterprise is operating in accordance
with Bank environmental guidelines; and (iii) the PCU monitor to confirm that enterprises and banks are in
compliance with environmental requirements. The arrangements are part of the Operational Guidelines in the
Project Implementation Plan.
7. Participatory approachi
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: Close collaboration with RS banks; consultation through
interviews with a sample of private sector RS enterprises.
b. Other key stakeholders: Collaboration with other international donors (US); information sharing with RS
chamber of commerce. banking supervision authorities of the RS.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability and viability of investments financed by the project would be ensured through prior sub-loan credit
analysis by participating banks and the PCU, and final review by the Bank. Sustainability of the revolving credit
line beyond the first sub-loan cycle depends on timely and full repayment of sub-loans by borrowers and
participating banks, which would be achieved through close supervision and follow-up by the PCU. Beyond the
two-year implementation period, the RS government will need to either finance the recurrent costs of the PCU
credit line section operations, or transfer this section to a local bank on an agent basis. The project supports, in a
limited way, the institutional development of RS banks, helping them to strengthen their credit management
capacity in preparation for broad-based financial sector reform.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                         Risk Rating          Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
  Sufficient political and macro-economic stability in  H (political) .  Political risk: accepted by donors; macro-
.  RS including ability to meet external debt service  S (economic)    economic risk: IMF program, and Bank-
obligations                                                      financed adjustment lending
*  Passage of law on RS banking supervision agency &      S      *  Draft law prepared; donor assistance
subsequent implementation                                        conditional on passage of the law
*  Sufficient donor support for technical assistance     M       *  Interest by the US for most TA, but
components of the project                                        conditional on RS political situation
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
*  Sufficient demand for sub-loans by credit-worthy      M       *  Survey of RS firms showed sufficient
RS businesses                                                   demand at conditions envisaged
*  Establishment of PCU credit line section              N       *  PCU already operating
*  Early availability of expatriate advisors             M       .  Dialogue with donors ongoing
Overall Risk Rate          S     I
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Speciflc Implementation Aspects:
Exclusion from the project -- under the Operational Guidelines for the PCU and participating RS banks -- of
enterprises with owners or managers who have criminal records or have been indicted for any felony.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 13 of 33
Country: Bosnia-Herzegovina                       Project Title: Emergency Pilot Credit Project (Republika Srpska)
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
  Adoption of a law on an RS Banking Supervision Agency, in line with provisions of the respective parallel
law in effect in the Federation of BH, and acceptable to IDA.
*  Establishment of the PCU credit line section and appointment of its director with qualifications and terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA.
*  Adoption by the PCU of Operational Guidelines for participating RS banks. acceptable to IDA.
*  Execution of the Subsidiary Finance Agreement BH - RS on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
2. Otlher:
Accounts, audit:  Yearly financial project audits (including Special Account, statements of expenditures);
completion of "enhanced" supervisory reviews through USAID-financed auditors of participating RS banks;
provision of audited annual financial statements of participating RS banks; provision of six-monthly financial
statements of participating banks, with adjustments for inactive assets and liabilities.
Monitoring, review and reporting: Quarterly project progress reports by the PCU.
H: Readiness for Implementation
[] Engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete  [X] Not applicable
[X] Procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
[ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G).
I: Compliance with Bank Policies
[ ]   This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[X]  The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: Comprehensive financial sector
development, as a pre-condition to financial intermediary loans and as mandated by OD 8.30. will not be
undertaken prior to/ within the framework of this emergency pilot operation. Adjustment in the banking and
enterprise sectors will tackled by a proposed subsequent adjustment credit (FY 98).
Task Team Leader:  chael F. Koch, ECSPF/ ECCBA
Sector Direct : L   s Bokros, ECSPF
Country Director: Chriti . _an              04



Project Appraisal Document                                                                              Page 14 of 33
Country: Bosnia-Herzegovina                                        Project Title: Emergency Pilot Credit Project (Republika Srpska)
Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary        Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring and Evaluation       Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                               (Goal to Bank Mission)
*  Enhance sustainability of  *  adopt (Federation) and   *  publication of new/       *  firm delegation of
economic recovery and        modify (RS) enterprise       amended laws                 privatization
assist in transition to a    privatization laws       *  Bank-financed sector          responsibility by Bill
market economy by: (i)    *  establish enterprise        reports in preparation for    State to the two Entities
developing the private       privatization agency         adjustment credit        *  no political blockage of
enterprise sector; and (ii)  *  adopt (Federation) and  *  reports by USAID (PW,       operation of the Entity
promoting a competitive,     develop (RS) bank            Barents group). ODA          Parliaments
effective financial sector   privatization laws           and US Treasury          *  political will of both
with reduced government  *  establish banking         *  reports by Entity             Entity governments to
role in banking              supervision agency (RS)      privatization agencies       implement privatization
*  prepare opening balances  *  reports by Entity bank   *  continued foreign donor
sheets                       supervision agencies         involvement
Project Development                                                                    (Objective to Goal)
Objective:                   *  increased output,         *  survey reports of         *  continued progress on
*  To re-start and expand       employment and profits       borrowing RS enterprises     enterprise and bank
enterprise activities in RS  of benefiting businesses   *  progress reports by         privatization in RS,
through medium-term      *  improved access to term       participating banks         including through a
loans from commercial       loans as measured by an   *  reports by the new RS        planned Enterprise and
banks                       increase in bank loans        banking supervision          Bank Privatization
*  To improve credit            beyond 3 months' term        agency                       Adjustm. Credit (FY 98)
management capacity      *  lower delinquencies and   *  impact assessments by     *  implementation of new
and loan administration      higher interest income for   the project coordination     BiH Central Bank Law
skills of RS banks           participating banks          unit
Outputs:                                                                               (Outputs to Objective)
*   130 sub-loans in first   *  # of new loans after 18    *  reports from ongoing     *  political and macro-
project loan cycle           months; delinquencies       supervision by the           economic stability in RS;
*   1.500 new jobs in first  *  # of new permanent jobs      Resident Mission             meeting external debt
loan cycle (at $1 1,000     after 18 months           *  reports by expatriate        service obligations
investment per job)      *  FRRs on investments          technical advisors to the   *  passage of law on RS
*  4 RS banks trained in    *  # of RS banks and their       RS banks, enterprises and    banking supervision
risk/ loan management       credit officers trained      the RS banking               agency & subsequent
*  200 RS firms assisted on   *  # of RS enterprises         supervision agency           implementation
credit applications          advised by trainers      *  regular progress reports    *  sufficient donor support
*  RS banking supervision    *  # of RS banking agency       by project unit              for technical assistance
agency strengthened          staff trained            *  random sub-loan audits        components of project
Project Components/Sub-    Inputs: (budget for each                                   (Components to Outputs)
components: (see Annex 2    component)
for project description)                                 *  regular progress and      *  sufficient demand for
*  Line of Credit           *  US$16 million                 disbursement reports         sub-loans by RS firms
*  Bankers' Training        *  US$1 million (TA)         *  reports by co-financing    *  timely establishment of
*  Enterprise Support       *  US$1 million (TA)             donors and their local       PCU credit line section
d  Banking Supervision      *  US$1 million (TA)             implementing agencies    *  early availability of
*  Implementation Support   *  US$1 million                                               expatriate advisors



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 15 of 33
Country: Bosnia-Herzegovina                       Project Title: Emergency Pilot Credit Project (Republika Srpska)
Annex 2
Project Description
Component 1: Line of Credit - USS 16 million
Objective. The Line of Credit component of the project would provide emergency financing for needed inputs
and repairs to permit small and medium-scale majority-private enterprises in the RS. primarily in light
manufacturing and agro-processing, to re-start or increase production to meet rising demand. Loans are
expected to involve largely working capital financing, and sometimes may cover the cost of repairs to larger
facilities and associated incremental investments. The credit line component would aim to help the RS
authorities to restore economic normalcy and provide the organizational structure for increased lending flows
as the economy shows signs of revival.
Emergency Financing. Emergency financing is considered essential to restart the RS economy. Under this
component, financing would be made available to viable enterprises through authorized participating RS
banks. For disbursements authorized by the credit line section of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU,
representing the RS Ministry of Finance), disbursements would be made in tranches against presentation of
invoices by the enterprise borrowers. Statements of expenditures would be used to ensure proper use of
moneys. Regular reports, scheduled audits, on-site inspections by the PCU and participating bank staff, and
supervision by staff of the Bank's Resident Mission would reduce the risk of misallocated funds.
Onlending Mechanism and Sub-loan Terms. The tern of the loans disbursed by the PCU to participating RS
banks will match the terms of the sub-loans. Funds on-lent by the PCU to participating banks would be
disbursed against approved credit applications from RS enterprises in DEM (or the new 'convertible mark')
for periods of up to three years. The interest charged by the PCU to participating banks would be fixed for the
tern of the loan at two percent below the DEM Libor rate of the same tenor/ term, in effect the first day of
each calendar quarter, but not less than two percent per annum. Banks would determine spreads above the
cost of funds to account for risk, but spreads would not exceed 7 percent. The amount of each sub-loan would
be less or equal to DEM 250,000; only one outstanding sub-loan per borrower at a time.
Sub-loans would be made based on credit analysis performed by the participating bank. Assisted by technical
assistance, the PCU would monitor to ensure that banks' sub-loan approval practices conform to Operational
Guidelines developed by the PCU. Sub-loan repayments by enterprises would occur over variable periods of
up to three years, including up to six months principal grace. Banks would determine principal amortization
and interest payment schedules on a case-by-case basis, based on cash-flow projections, but interest and
principal payments would generally be made monthly. Interest and principal payments from enterprises to
banks and banks to the PCU would be required to be current at the time of approval of additional sub-loans.
There would be no prepayment penalties, and interest could be charged on a declining balance formula.
Currency Risk, Credit Risk, Repayment Arrangements. Sub-loans would be denominated in DEM  or in
convertible mark (1:I exchange ratio). Borrowing enterprises assume any currency risks. Banks assume the
fLill credit risk on all sub-loans they sponsor and decide to finance throLgil the project. Each bank would
receive the full spread above cost of funds assuming full principal and interest are paid back. Loans extended
by the PCU to banks are back-to-back: participating banks are required to repay interest and principal to tile
PCU within five business days of the date being due from the enterprise.
A bank that is delinquent in its payments to the PCU will be charged penaltv interest of up to 1 0 percent per
year, on the full outstanding principal balance, until payments are again current. Banks whichi fail to make
payments to the PCU and remain delinquent for 90 days shall be referred to regulatory authorities and legal
counsel for appropriate action. Banks are required to make payments to the PCU regardless of whether or not
they have received payments from their borrowers. Each time principle or interest due of a sub-loan. the
participating bank would provide the PCU with a report on the performance of the sub-loan. the reason for anv



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 16 of 33
Country: Bosnia-Herzegovina                        Project Title: Emergency Pilot Credit Project (Republika Srpska)
deviation from the terms of the sub-loan, and the up-dated credit history of the borrower. Thie bank would
agree to keep the credit hiistory of the borrower on file and to furnish it to any authorized central credit
reporting agency which may develop.
Eligibility of RS Banks. Participating RS commercial banks would be licensed in RS, operate for at least two
years. and remain in compliance with RS regulations. Based on "enhanced supervisory reviews", to be carried
out through USAID-financing by end-1997, participating RS banks are required to have positive net capital
after financial restructuring and debt relief, in accordance with draft banking restructuring legislation
developed in the Federation of BH and expected to be adopted by RS. Participating banks would devote
adequate resources to the project, join available staff training, and participate fully in a subsequent Bank-
supported banking privatization program. Primarily based on qualitative aspects of bank management and the
level of experience and readiness for training of bank staff in the credit departments (available in project files),
the following RS banks have been selected at appraisal to participate in the project, capable of covering all RS
regions:  Banjalucka Banka; Cristal Banka; Semberska Banka; and Agroprom  Banka.  Aggregate loan
amounts outstanding per participating bank would be determined by the RS, through the PCU, on a non-
objection basis by the Bank. With mutual agreement between the Bank and RS, the list of participating banks
could be changed/ expanded during project implementationi.
Eligqibility of RS Businesses. Benefiting enterprises would need to be majority privately owned and registered
with the tax authorities and the local Chamber of Commerce. Businesses would need to be directly involved
prinarily in light manufacturing or agro-prc.cessing, or in other economic activity which supports the
restoration of industrial or food production in RS. Enterprises need to demonstrate prior operating experience
in the activity to be financed, preferably of at least two years. During thie lifetine of the sub-loan, benefiting
businesses would be required to maintain: (i) a debt/equity ratio of no more than 3/1 (defined as total debt,
including the sub-loan, divided by registered equity); and (ii) minimum debt service coverage ratio of 1.5/1
(defined as after tax cash earnings before interest divided by principal and interest payments). Furthermore.
enterprises need to demonstrate that they dispose of sufficient working capital, when including sub-loan
proceeds. to meet all existing and projected financial obligations in a timely manner.
Eligibility of Projects. Sub-loans would finance incremental permanent working capital, repairs to facilities,
and associated equipment and machinery. Eligible projects would need to aim at restarting or increasing
industrial or food production in RS, and would be required to become operational within six months or less
after the date of first tranche disbursement on a sub-loan. Projects would aim to foster increased local
employment, replace imports and generate exports. Projects are required to have an expected financial rate of
return of at least 15 percent. Each project application would be accompanied by a viable business plan. a
current balance sheet and income statement, and cash-flow projections. Projects also need to meet appropriate
environmental guidelines. acceptable to the Bank. Borrowers need to provide RS banks with collateral
sufficient to support the sub-loan. Borrowers are expected to have a significant equity stake in place in the
enterprise and project to be supported by the sub-loan. so as to ensuLe that the boriower is taking risk and
making a material contribution to the enterprise's overall debt capacity.
Cost (mn Financinig. US$4.5 million would be made available by IDA under the proposed credit, the balance
of US$11.5 million would be provided throughi donor cofinancing and parallel financing.
Prior Review.  Prior review  by the Bank of sub-loan appraisal and approval documentation by each
participatinig bank will be required for all first-cycle sub-loans financed out of Bank resources (US$ 4.5
million). This is expected to cover about 40 sub-loans in total. This review will be carried out throughi the
Bank's Resident Mission in Sarajevo. This prior sub-loan review would also cover donor cofinancing if
provided throughL trust funds administered by the Bank.
Component 2: Banker's Training - US$ 1 million
Technical assistance to be provided to participating RS banks would be in-house and on-tie-job when
evaluatinig sub-loan applications under- the project. The project would fiurthermore be used as a vehicle to



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 17 of 33
Country: Bosnia-Herzegovina                       Project Title: Emergency Pilot Credit Project (Republika Srpska)
introduce new governance and management standards at participating RS banks in anticipation of new laws,
regulations, and institutions. The technical assistance for RS banks would focus on:
*  hands-on assistance in the area of credit management, from initial contact and assessment of enterprises
tihrough analysis of business plans, sub-loan evaluation (evaluation of credit risk and borrowers' financial
status and ability to repay), recommendation and approval, sub-loan disbursements, monitoring of use of
sub-loan proceeds, maintenance of adequate sub-loan files and systems, and instruments of sub-loan
collection,
*  developing banks' general capacity for credit evaluation, loan portfolio management. and asset-liability
management; and
*  assisting banks to adapt to international standards which address connected (related party) lending, loan
concentration and exposure, and new loan classification standards.
Technical assistance to RS banks would be provided by a combination of experienced long-term credit
advisors from market-based economies, working in tandem with local credit officers. Detailed technical
assistance inputs, withiin the envisaged component budget of US$1 million, will be determined by the
(bilateral) donor financing this component. Financial support from the United States is expected for this
component.
Component 3: Enterprise Support - US$1 million
Techinical assistance for enterprises would aim at developing viable business strategies. thereby enhancing the
quality of sub-loan requests, facilitating the sub-loan review process. accelerating the pace of sub-loan
disbuisements. and strengthening the prospects for timely sub-loan reflows. Technical assistance would
involve the following areas:
*  preparation of viable business plans and strategies. applying market-based principles of production,
marketing, financial management. internal controls and systems; and
  ongoing assistance specific to the economic sectors and market needs, including pricing information on a
range of goods and services to be sourced from abroad, and strategies to enhance purchasing power.
The project would seek to work through consulting operations with business planning capacity already in BH
and RS.  Valuable experience exists from  a parallel technical assistance project for enterprises, in
implementation in the Federation of Bosnia and H-erzegovina under US financing. As for Component 2,
details of the technical assistance input within the US$1 million budget will be determined by the donor
finanicing this component. The Swedish government has expressed firm interest to support this component.
Component 4: Banking Supervision - US$ 1 million
Technical assistance would also be provided to the existing banking supervision department of NBRS in Banja
Luka and, once establishied, its successor, the new RS Banking Supervision Agency (RSBA). To objective is
to adopt new approaches to "active" regulation and supervision. This would involve:
*  application of prudential regulations and accounting frameworks consistent with Basle Committee
recommendations or comparable international standards;
*  introduction of new  examination techliiques. including on-site inspections and enhanced off-site
surveillance: and
*  development of r isk management capacity, early warning systems, peer reviews, and trend analysis.
Experienced regulators from  Western economies would work with RSBA staff to determine appropriate
organizational structures and systems, to provide training, and to assist with examinations. These efforts
would be integrated with assistance provided to second-tier banks to establish adequate reporting and
oversight on a continuous basis. Technical assistance would follow along the model of assistance already in
place, since early 1997, under US financing within the Federation Banking Agency. The US has committed
about US$1 million in funding for support to the new RSBA, and international consultants have been
appointed.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 18 of 33
Country: Bosnia-Herzegovina                        Project Title: Emergency Pilot Credit Project (Republika Srpska)
Component 5: Implementation Support - US$1 million
Financing of administrative expenditures and technical assistance for the credit line section of the PCU in
Banja Luka would also be provided under the project. Technical assistance to the PCU credit line section
would focus on the following areas:
*  review of sub-loan applications sponsored by participating RS banks;
*  approval of sub-loans through a PCU Credit Committee including expatriate advisors to the PCU:
*  loan negotiations and contracting with participating banks;
*  monitoring of collection of funds from participating banks; and
*  monitoring of sub-loan repayments from enterprise borrowers.
The following cost items of the PCU credit line section would be financed within the US$ I million
component budget, over the 2-year implementation period:
Item                   Description                                   Quantity       Cost (US$)
Office Equipment       Desktop PCs (with software, printer)          5 sets            15,000
Fax machine, photocopy machine                1 unit each        7,000
Office furniture, office supplies             lump sum          10,000
Vehicles for credit line section              2 sedans          30,000
Sub-total                                                       62,000
Office Running Costs   Local staff salaries (Director, 3 credit officers    24 m/months  134,400
1 accountant, I secretary, I driver)        times 7 staff
@ average salary of $800/month
Incremental office operating costs (telephone,    lump sum      36,000
fax, office rent, vehicle maintenance, etc.)
Sub-total                                                      170,400
Technical Assistance    Foreign credit advisors (3 advisors, for     54 in/months     675,000
18 man-months each) @ $12,500/ month
Financial Audits (TA)   Two end-of year audits (end-1998, end-1999)  $20,000/audit     40,000
Unallocated Reserve                                                  lump sum          52,600
Total Cost                                                                           1,000,000
The IDA credit would finance 50 percent of the component cost, including the following items: office
equipment (US$62,000); office running costs (US$148,000); foreign technical assistance (US$250,000); and
financial audits (US$40,000, these are also foreign consultant services). The Swedish government has
expressed firm interest to support this component.



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 19 of 33
Country: Bosnia-Herzegovina                       Project Title: Emergency Pilot Credit Project (Republika Srpska)
Annex 3
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                     Local             Foreign            Total
-------------------------US $ million------------------
Line of Credit                                        0.0               16.0               16.0
Bankers' Training                                     0.0                1.0                1.0
Enterprise Support                                    0.0                1.0                1.0
Banking Supervision                                   0.0                1.0                1.0
lImplementation Support                               0.2                0.8                1.0
Total                                                 0.2               19.8               20.0
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                             0.0                0.0                0.0
Price Contingencies                                0.0                0.0                0.0
Total Project Cost                                    0.2               19.8               20.0
Notes:
i Funds for the line of credit component were not split into local and foreign costs since calculation of local
costs was considered inappropriate given the lack of information on actual sub-loans at this stage. During
implementation, participating RS banks will ensure that sub-loan applications include the details of local
costs along with a financing plan. A local cost share for most sub-loans of between 30 and 50 percent is
expected.
* No contingencies were included for the three technical assistance components and in the implementation
support component. given the short project implementation period and the non-physical nature of most
items to be financed.



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Page 20 of 33
Country: Bosnia-Herzegovina                        Project Title: Emergency Pilot Credit Project (Republika Srpska)
Annex 4
Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary
Type of Analysis: To evaluate the profitability of investments and viability of likely sub-loans to be financed,
23 RS enterprises were visited and their requests for credit financing evaluated. From these, I I sample
projects and sub-loan applications were developed. Incremental permanent working capital was the main item
to be financed, making standard internal rate of return/ NPV analysis less meaningful. Instead. the ability of
borrowers was verified to generate sufficient incremental earnings in order to return sub-loans at the terms
assumed. This ability is expressed in the debt service coverage ratios (DSC = incremental caslh earnings
before interest/principal and interest on sub-loans). Enterprise indebtedness, after taking the sub-loan, was
also monitored (debt/ equity ratio not to exceed 3/1), but remained generally very low due to the absence of
other bank loans at the present time.
Type of Manufacturing Business      Sub-loan       DSC          Debt/      New    Increm. Exports
(DEM)                     Equity      Jobs         (DEM)
Saw mill                               300,000      2.5          0.5        20            1,000,000
Eggs and chicken meat                 300,000       2.3         0.1         12             250,000
Metal doors and windows                100,000      1.9          1.2         6              100,000
Concrete blocks                        130,000      3.1          0.5         8                none
Slaughter house and retail shops      300,000       2.5          0.4        20              100,000
Dairy products                         186,000      1.8          0.5        12                none
Concrete contractor                   240,000       1.3          1.0         6                none
Wood products                         300,000       1.3          0.9        15             500,000
Printing business, office supply sales  300,000     1.8          0.3        13                none
Shoe manufacturer                     250,000       1.5          1.3        15              100,000
Metal doors and windows               300.000       1.6          0.3        12             380.000
TOTALS                               2,706,000                              139           2,430,000
Summary of Benefits and Costs: Debt service coverage in all cases was equal or above 1.3/1, demonstrating
the financial viability of investments at the terms assumed. The projects would create one incremental job per
US$10,800 invested and US$ 0.90 equivalent in export revenues per dollar invested over the life of the sub-
loan. Sub-loans would mostly be used for pernanent working capital to re-start operations. Based on the
above, a US$16 million credit line would generate, in the first loan cycle (36 months): 130 sub-loans (average
loans size of US$120,000 = DEM 220,000), creating nearly 1,500 new jobs (at an assumed US$1 1,000
average investment required per new job), and generating potentially US$12-15 million in export earnings.
After the credit first cycle, principal and interest would revolve for further loans and related benefits.
Fiscal Impact: Assuming an average debt service coverage of 1.8, incremental taxable yearly enterprise
earnings, net of debt service payments, would equal 80 percent of annual debt service payments, or roughly 80
percent of one third of the sub-loan volumes (assuming a 3-year maturity; ignoring interest), or some US$0.24
per dollar of sub-loan. At an assumed enterprise tax rate of 33 percent, annual net fiscal inflows for the RS
budget from enterprise taxes could equal US$0.08 per dollar of loan volume, or US$1.3 million per year.
However, due to less than full tax collection, most these theoretical revenues are likely not to materialize.
Main Assumptions:
*  sub-loan terms: 3 years maturity, 6 months principal grace, 3 months interest grace, and 9 percent interest
charge p.a. on the outstanding principal balance; DEM 300,000 maximum loan size
*  borrowers are labor-intensive light manufacturing enterprises with demonstrated export potential
*  projects are required to generate pay-offs within 6 months after first sub-loan tranche disbursement
*  for tax revenue generation estimate: the full amount of US$ 16 million of sub-loans is outstanding; all
taxes are declared properly and collected



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 21 of 33
Country: Bosnia-Herzegovina                       Project Title: Emergency Pilot Credit Project (Republika Srpska)
Annex 5
Summary Financial Statements of RS Banks (2s at December 31,1996)
Table 1: Aggregate Balance Sheet
(in '000 Dinars)                                        ALL BANKS in the RS
TOTALS       in percent    ACTIVE    in percent   INAcTriVw
(published)
ASSETS
Cash and amounts due from banks        4,902,630     73.6         181,090     24.9       4,721,540
Obligatory reserves                        1,346      0.0           1,346      0.2
ST Loans and Advances                   250,869       3.8         247,721     34.0           3,148
Accrued Interest                         33,214       0.5          33,214      4.5
Long-term loans                        1,224,919     18.4          59,319      8.1       1,165,600
Investments                                1,537     0.0            1,537      0.2
Fixed assets                            239,021       3.6         197,100     27.1          41,921
Other assets                              7,034       0.0           7,034      1.0
Total Assets                       6,660,570     100.0        728,361     100.0       5,932,209
LIABI LITIES
Demand deposits                        1,030,010     15.5         186,478     25.6         843,532
Savings and short-term deposits         995,471      14.9           7,511      1.0         987,960
Short-term borrowings                    70,422       1.1          70.422      9.7
Ac. Interest and other borrowings        27,834       0.4          22,507      3.0           5,327
Savings and long-term deposits         3,210,428     48.2               0      0.0       3,210,428
Long-term borrowings                    704,983      10.6          15,447      2.1         689,536
Other liabilities                        87,377       1.3          74,898     10.3          12,479
Total Liabilities                 6,126,525      92.0         377,263     51.8       5,749,262
CAPITAL
Share capital                           292,020      4.4          280,948     38.6
Reserves for loan losses                 42,602      0.6                0      0.0
Reserve fund                            199,423      3.0           70,150      9.6
Total Capital                        534,045      8.0         351,098      48.2
Total Liabilities and Capital          6,660,570     100.0        728,361     100.0
ADJUSTMENTS TO CAPITAL
Capital as shown by bank's books        534,045                   351,098
Less: Foreign Curr. Dep. Claims    -5,293,338                -1,205,295
Less: Unrecognized Losses            -638,872                  -178,740
Less: Provision for losses on active
loans and off-balance sheet items  -102,686                  -102,686
Net Adjusted Capital                  -5,500,851                  248,412



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Page 22 of 33
Country: Bosnia-Herzegovina                            Project Title: Emergency Pilot Credit Project (Republika Srpska)
Financial Statements of RS Banks (as at December 31,1996), continued
Table 2: Aggregate Income Statement and Ratios
(in '000 Dinars)                                              ALL Banks in the RS
TOTALS                      ACTIVE
(published)
INCOME STATEMENT
Net Interest Income                          81,131
Interest Income                         304,109
Interest Expense                        222,978
Net Fee Income                               21,783
Fee Income                               31,414
Fee Expense                                9,631
NET INCOME                                   102,914
Other Operating Income                        18,693
Operating Expenses                           119,763
General Operations                       73,763
Other Operations                         46,440
NET INCOME BEFORE TAX                          1,844
Estimated Income Tax                            611
NET INCOME                                     1,233
RATIOS
Liquid Assets/ Total Assets (lo)                                            25.0
Loans/ Deposits (%/)                                                       175.4
Total Capital! Total Assets (/)                 8.0
Adjusted Capital! Total Assets (%)                                          39.7
Liabilities! Total Capital                      11.5
Liabilities!Adjusted Capital                                                  1.5
Risk Assets/Adjusted Capital (f)                                            96.9
Fixed Assets! Total Assets (%)                                              27.1
Fixed Assets! Adjusted Capital (%)                                          79.3
Adjusted Capital > US$ 1.5 million ?                                         Yes



Project Appraisal Document                                                           Page 23 of 33
Country: Bosnia-Herzegovina                      Project Title: Emergency Pilot Credit Project (Republika Srpska)
Annex 6
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
Sub-loans. Individual sub-loans to final beneficiaries are limited to DEM  250,000 (about US$
140,000 equivalent) in size. Beneficiaries will use their established Commercial Practices which have been
reviewed by the Bank in the context of the credit line under the Emergency Recovery Project (FY96) and
found acceptable. These practices involve competitive quotations obtained locally and internationally. The
use of Commercial Practices is justifiable because the proceeds of the IDA credit and resulting sub-loans will
be used only by privately owned enterprises (more than 50 percent ownership in private hands) which carry
out their domestic and foreign purchases based on competitive prices. Certain equipment, components, parts
and materials are available locally on a competitive basis. Goods and technical licenses which the Bank
agrees are of proprietary nature, or the quick purchase of which is critical for efficient project execution, or
need to be compatible with other installed equipment will be procured through Direct Contracting.
Goods. The IDA credit would finance minor office equipment (computer, fax and photocopy
machine, office furniture, vehicles) and office supplies, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 62,000. National
Shopping will be used for the procurement of these items. National Shopping is based on the comparison of
price quotations obtained from at least three national suppliers.
Consultant Services. The IDA credit would finance consultant services for: (i) technical assistance
(US$ 250,000), to be procured under quality- and cost-based selection (QCBS); and (ii) external project
financial audits (US$ 40,000), to be procured under least-cost selection (LCS). See also Table A 1.
Incremental Operating Expenditures.   The IDA credit would finance incremental operating
expenditures of the credit line section of the PCU up to an aggregate value of US$ 148,000. Eligible expenses
include staff salaries, utilities, communication expenditures, office and vehicle rental, vehicle maintenance,
and other office running costs. Payments will be based on quarterly budgets and work programs agreed with
the Bank.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Sub-loans. All first-cycle sub-loans, financed out of resources provided by the Bank or out of funds
given in trust to the Bank by cofinancing donors, are subject to prior review by the Bank. However, prior
review is not for procurement purposes, but is aimed at assessing the financial viability of sub-loan proposals.
Consultant Services. Contracts under Consultant Selection that exceed US$ 50,000 for individuals
and US$ 100,000 for firms will be subject to prior Bank review.
Procurement responsibility
The credit line section of the PCU is responsible to ensure adherence to agreed procurement methods
and guidelines. Selective reviews of procurement activities will be carried out as a regular supervision
activity. In addition, the new RS Procurement Monitoring and Audit Unit (to be established by early 1998)
will monitor and review project procurement.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 24 of 33
Country: Bosnia-Herzegovina                       Project Title: Emergency Pilot Credit Project (Republika Srpska)
Disbursemen
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Proceeds of the IDA credit will finance sub-loans, office equipment and supplies, consultant services,
and incremental office operating costs, as set out in Table C.
Use of statements of expenditures:
Disbursements will be based on statements of expenditures for the following expenditure items: (i) for
sub-loans; (ii) for goods contracts valued at less than US$ 50,000; (iii) for consultant contracts valued less than
US$ 50,000 for individuals and US$ 100,000 for firms; and (iv) for incremental operating expenditures. The
documentation to support these expenditures will be retained by the PCU, audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, and made available for review by Bank staff upon request. Applications for
withdrawals against consultant contracts valued at or above US$ 50,000 for individuals and US$ 100.000 for
firms will be fully documented.
Special account
A special account will be established in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. The authorized
allocation will be US$ I million. The PCU will manage the special account. Monthly replenishment
applications will be forwarded to the Bank with reconciled bank statements and other appropriate
documentation.
Externalfinancial project audits
Early contracting of auditors is advised, not later than 3 months prior to the end of the fiscal year to be
audited. Auditors' terms of reference should include a management letter along with specific comments on the
PCU financial systems (internal control, accounting, financial management, and financial reporting).



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Page 25 of 33
Country: Bosnia-Herzegovina                       Project Title: Emergency Pilot Credit Project (Republika Srpska)
Annex 6, Table A:
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ '000 equivalent)
Expenditure Category-           Procurement Method (Bank-financed)     N.B.F.    Total Cost
(including
ICB        NCB         Other               contingencies)
1. Sub-loans                                                4,500      11,500           16.000
2. Goods
Office equipment and supplies                                  62.          0               62
3. Services
Technical assistance to PCU                                   250         425              675
External project audits                                        40                           40
Other technical assistance                                              3,000            3,000
4. Miscellaneous
lncr. operating expenditures                                  148          22              170
Reserve fund for PCU costs                                                 53               53
Total
0           0        5,000     15,000           20,000
Notes:
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel financing and/or cofinancing
procedures, consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other
miscellaneous items).
"Other" procurement methods include the following:
*      Commercial Practices (US$ 4,500,000) for sub-loans
*      National Shopping (US$ 62,000) for goods (office equipment and supplies)
*      Consultant Selection (US$ 290,000) for technical assistance and external audits
*      Incremental PCU operating expenditures (US$ 148,000) based on agreed budgets



Project Appraisal Document                                                             Page 26 of 33
Country: Bosnia-Herzegovina                       Project Title: Emergency Pilot Credit Project (Republika Srpska)
Annex 6, Table Al:
Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ '000 equivalent)
Selection Method                          Total Cost
Consultant                                                                    (including
Services                                                                    contingencies)
Expenditure
Category
QCBS   QBS    SFB    LCS          CQ     Other   N.B.F.
A. Firms             250                      40                      3,425          3,715
B. Individuals                                                                        0
Total   250                      40                       3,425         3,715
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS   Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Page 27 of 33
Country: Bosnia-Herzegovina                     Project Title: Emergency Pilot Credit Project (Republika Srpska)
Annex 6, Table B:
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure          Contract Value            Procurement           Estimated Total
Category             (Threshold)               Method              Value Subject to
Prior Review
US $ thousands                                  US $ thousands
1. Sub-loans                   none          Commercial Practices       (prior review, but not
for procurement
purposes)
2. Goods
Office equipment               none          National Shopping                 none
3. Services
Technical assistance      50 (individuals)   Consultant Selection               250
and project audits          I 00 (firms)
4. Miscellaneous
Incremental operating          none          based on agreed annual            none
expenditures, reserve                        budgets & work programs
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  250
Annex 6, Table C:
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category          Amount in US$          Financing Percentage
Sub-loans for goods, works, and related     4,500,000               100 %
services
Goods (office equipment and supplies)          62,000  100 % of foreign expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 85% of local expenditures
for other items procured locally
Consultant services (technical assistance,    290,000                100 %
external project audits)
Incremental operating expenditures            148,000               100 %
(office running costs, staff salaries)
Total        5,000,000



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Page 28 of 33
Country: Bosnia-Herzegovina                     Project Title: Emergency Pilot Credit Project (Republika Srpska)
Annex 7
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                         Planned           Actual to Date 21
(At final PCD stage) I/
98.6                  84.8
B. Project Schedule                                Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Tine taken to prepare the project (months)            6                     6
First Bank mission (identification)               5/15/1997             5/1 5/1997
Appraisal mission departure                       10/06/1997            10/20/1997
Negotiations                                      11/17/1997            02/18/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     2/15/1998             05/15/1998
Prepared by: Ministry of Finance, Republika Srpska; participating commercial banks, and the
World Bank
Preparation assistance: USAID through diagnostic studies of RS banks
Bank staff who worked oni the project included: Michael Koch (Task Team Leader); Dilek
Barlas; Joseph Formoso; Ahmet Gokce; Naushad Khan; Christine Sior. Consultant support
provided by Michael Borish and Jack Gushee.
1/ As at end-June 1997
2/ As at February 23, 1998



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Page 29 of 33
Country: Bosnia-Herzegovina                   Project Title: Emergency Pilot Credit Project (Republika Srpska)
Annex 8
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Emergency Pilot Credit Project (Republika Srpska), Project Implementation
Plan (Draft) including Operational Manual, October 1997, Banja Luka, Project Coordination Unit (PCU,
credit line section), Ministry of Finance of Republika Srpska
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Republika Srpska, Financial Sector Study, August 1997, Sarajevo, Michael Borish (consultant), World
Bank Resident Mission Bosnia and Herzegovina
Republika Srpska, Enterprise Sector Study. August 1997. Sarajevo, Michael Borish (consultant), World
Baank Resident Mission Bosnia and Herzegovina
Republika Srpska, Supplemental Feasibility Study - Enterprise Finance Project, May 1997, Sarajevo,
Jack Gushee (consultant), World Bank Resident Mission Bosnia and Herzegovina
Bosinia and Herzegovina, Reconstruction Assistance Project (Republika Srpska) - Revolving Lines of
Credit Component, April 1997, Sarajevo, Michael Borish (consultant), World Bank Resident Mission
Bosniia and Herzegovina
Republika Srpska: Report on Banking in RS, October 1996, Washington DC, Kees Walraven, World
Bank
C. Other
Republika Srpska, Bank Diagnostic Studies, September 1997, Sarajevo, Barents Group, USAID
Republika Srpska, Challenges of Reconstruction and Transition in the Industrial Sector, June 1997, Pale,
ARDEA and Ministry of Finance, Republika Srpska
Republika Srpska, Challenges of Reconstruction and Transition in the Banking Sector, June 1997, Banja
Luka and Pale, Ministry of Finance, Republika Srpska
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Economic Policy Agenda, May 1997, Sarajevo, USAID
Republika Srpska - Bosnia Reconstruction Finance Facility, Feasibility Study, April 1997, Sarajevo,
Development Alternatives International, USAID
Republika Srpska, Industry Structure, January 1997, Pale, Slavisa Rakovic, RS Aid Coordination Unit
Notes on Banking Sector Reform, monthly since January 1997, Sarajevo, Mike Markels, US Treasury



Project Appraisal Document                                                                             Page 30 of 33
Country: Bosnia-Herzegovina                                Project Title: Emergency Pilot Credit Project (Republika Srpska)
Annex 9
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS t
(As of February 28, 1998)
US$ Million
Loan      Fiscal                                                                      (Less Cancellations)
No.        Year        Borrower                     Project                       Loan Undisbursed
Loans/Credits/Grants
IBRD bl
4038-BOS 1996        Bosnia and Herzegovina     Consolidation Loan A                       28.6       0.0
4039-BOS 1996        Bosnia and Herzegovina     Consolidation Loan B                      284.9       0.0
4040-BOS 1996        Bosnia and Herzegovina     Consolidation Loan C                      307.1       0.0
Total                                           620.6     0Q0
Of Which: Repaid                           24.9
Total Now Held by the Bank:               595.7
TFBH"' (Under Disbursement)
TF-024030 1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Recovery Credit                  45.0       1.2
TF-024031 1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Farm Reconstruction               20.0  0.0
TF-024032 1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Water Supply                     20.0       0.5
TF-024033 1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Transport                        35.0       5.8
TF-024034 1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency District Heating dl              20.0       1.4
TF-024035 1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency War Victims Rehabilitation        5.0       0.0
TF-024040 1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Education Reconstruction           5.0       0.0
Total                                           150.0     8.9
IDA
2897-BOS 1996        Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Education Reconstruction           5.0      0.6
2896-BOS 1996        Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency War Victims Rehabilitation         5.0      5.0
2902-BOS 1996        Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Housing Repair                    15.0      1.3
2903-BOS 1997        Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Power Reconstruction             35.6       3.3
2904-BOS 1997        Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Public Works and Employment      10.0       1.7
2905-BOS 1997        Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Landmines Clearance                7.5      0.9
2906-BOS 1997        Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration   7.5      3.7
2914-BOS 1997        Bosnia and Herzegovina    Transition Assistance Credit                90.0       0.0
NOOI-BOS 1997        Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Industry Re-Start Guarantee      10.0       0.5
N002-BOS 1997        Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Microenterprise/Local Initiatives  7.0      2.6
N003-BOS 1997        Bosnia and Herzegovina    Essential Hospital Services                 15.0       11.4
0320-BOS 1997        Bosnia and Herzegovina    Transport Reconstruction II                 39.0      30.0
0350-BOS 1997        Bosnia and Herzegovina     Education Reconstruction II                11.0      9.5
3028-BOS 1997        Bosnia and Herzegovina     Reconstruction Assistance Project          17.0       15.7
3029-BOS 1997        Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Natural Gas                      10.0      10.0
Total                                           284.6      96.2
IVThe status of these projects is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the
Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
Consolidation Loans A, B, and C were approved on June 13, 1996 and became effective on June 14, 1996.
Tnist Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina.
' Disbursements to date are from the Project Start-Up Advance (of which US$2 million is disbursed for Gas).



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 31 of 33
Country: Bosnia-Herzegovina                              Project Title: Emergency Pilot Credit Project (Republika Srpska)
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of November 30, 1997)
Gross Commitments
------US$ Million----
Fiscal
Year         Obligor                      Type of Business                -         Loan Eguity    Total
1977       Tvomica Kartona I
Ambalaze Cazin          Timber, Pulp and Paper                               3.79      0.00         3.79
1985        Sour Energoinvest        Industrial Equipment and Machinery                  8.82       0.00         8.82
1997        Horizonte BiH
Enterprise Fund    SME Investment                                    0.00   2.00       2.00
1997        Microentreprise
Bank                    Microcredit                                          0.00      0.57         0.57
1997       Sarajevska Pivara         Brewery                                              8.04      0.00         8.04
Total Gross Commitments                                  20.65     2.57        23.22
Less: Participations, Cancellations, Terminations,
Exchange Adjustments, Repayments, Write-offs
and Sales                                          23.50      2.60        26.10
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                        20.65     2.57        23.22
Total Undisbursed                                         5.01     2.00         7.01
Total Outstanding                                        15.64     0.57        16.21



Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
Project Appraisal Document                                                                                          Page 32 of 33
Country: Bosnia-Herzegovina                                       Project Title: Emergency Pilot Credit Project (Republika Srpska)
Bosnia and Herzegovina at a glance
bconia  Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                     and    Central    Loww
Hemigovina       Asia  Income        Development diamond-
Populton mid-995 (mlons)                                4.1       488    3.180
GNP per capita 1995 (USS)V                               ..         0      43                  Life expedtncy
GNP 1995 (blEons USS)1/                                          1084    1.382
Aveae annual growth. 19904t6
Population (%)                                                    0.3       1.7     GNP                                Gross
LaborfrceX ()                                          11 0.5               1 .
per                       -I     pim
Moat recnt eImate (lates year avaIlable shnte 1989)                                 capita                         enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (X opopudlutn)
Urban population (X  ftotfa populton)                   49         65       29
tUe expectancy at bith (years)                          71         68       63
Inhtt mortaty (per 1t000 he biths)                     19         26       69                Access to safe water
Child maIumn ( ofdchdren under 5)
Accs to sde water (U of populafton)                                         53
Ilerac (X otfpopulaffonage 15+)                                             34
Gross priny enrolnent (X of school   population)                   97      105                Bosna and Hetegovlna
Male                                                             97      112                  Low-income grup
Femae                                                            97       9F
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1076     1986      1995      1996
Economic ratUos
GDP (hilons USS)                                ..       ..       2.1       3.3
Grss domestic investmen1JGDP                                                                Openness  economy
Exports of goods and srvices/GDP                .         ..     19.0      20.3Opnssfecoy
Gr  dometic ssvkgsIGDP
Grossnational o visv GDP 
Cuwrnt account baance/GDP                                        -27.0    -43.0
Interest paymenWGDP                                                          ,      Savings                        Investment
oteJ de DGDP                                                    167.0    116.0.
Total deot sewvie/exports                                       118.0     72.0
Present viue of debVGDP
Present value of deWexports                                                                      Indebtedness
197545  198646       1995      199   199745
(average annusl gowth)                                                                        Bosnia and Heizegovlna
GDP                                                    33.0      50.0      14.0               Low-ncom  grop
GNP pm capita                                                    59.0
Export of goods and services          ,,       ,,        ,,      74.0      19.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1991      1995      1996
of oGDP)                                                                            Growth rates of output and Invesment I%)
Agrculture                                              9.5                19.0     eo
Industry                                               43.0               23.0      40
Marfaftwing                                                                ,      20 -                            sr
Services                                               47.5.              58.0       o6
91   92   03   o4   ss   sr
Private consumption
Geneal goverment consumption                             ,                   ,                    GDI   -0-GDP
Imports of goods and services                                    63.0     73.0
197585  1988-96      1"9      1996
(average annual grvweh)                                                             Growth rate of exports and Imports
Agricuiture                                                                         loo.
Indusry                                         ..       ..        ..       ..
Manufaturing                                                                       so                                  >
Services                                       4.        .          .        .       0
Ser                                                     ,   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20       0
Privt econsumption                                                                   o .  .  .  ci
General government consumption                           ,,        ,,       2,  03                            9e1   0s    96
Gross domeUtic investment                                                    ,,
Imports of goods and services                                    23.0     78.0            -     Exports    0-Imports
Gross national product                                                       ,,
Note: 1996 da are preiinary esirnates
Large proportion o da  are mssing due to scent nd partial data In case of Bosnla and Herzegovina at present, early, stage of post-war era.
1/1995 GNP fiure Is not amible. GDP pm capita is estinated to be USS 601.
The dWmonds show four key indictor in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. if data are missing, the diamond will
be  omOpete.



Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                  Page 33 of 33
Country: Bosnia-Herzegovina                                            Project Title: Emergency Pilot Credit Project (Republik(a Srpska)
Bosnia and Herzegovina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                   ~~~1975     1985       1995      1998       ninttatiton ('%-
(% change)                                                                                1
Consumer prices                                                      -40.0       7.        '
Implicit GDP deflator                              .                              -      -10      91    92    93    94    95      96
-20  4
Government rinance-3
(% of GDP)J
Current revenue                                    .         ..       35.0      62.0 
Current budget balance                             ..        .          .0     -7.0            -GDP def. -0-*-CPI
Overall surplusIdeficIft                           -         -
TRADE
1975     1985        1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                            Export and import levels (mill. US$)
Total exports (fob)                                .          -       152       336      2,0
n.a.                                              -
Manufactures                                      -                                     1,200~
Total imports (ci?)                                 .         .      1,082     1,882     1,00Q
Food                                             6.         -                             00
Fuel and energy                                   ..        -          .         -        5
Capital goods                                     .                    .         -   [250
Export price index (1987-100)                                                                   go.  .   -9    91   92   93   94   95   96
Import price index (1987-100)                                -.         -         -                 Exports    a Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100).                                    .          ..       -
BALANCE ot PAYMVINITS
1975     1985        1996      1 996___
(millions US$)                                                                           Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                      .         -        381       658         1 -       ------  
Imports of goods and services                      -         ..      1,334    2,31g       - so9  91   92   93   94
Resource balance                                   --        .-      -953    -1,721      -s
Net factor income                                  -         ..      -242      -220 
Net current transfers                              .         .        625       536      -20
Current account balance,                                                                 -30
before official capital transfers                 .         ..      -570    -1,405        -5
Financing items (net)                              .         -        708     1,803      40~ 
Changes in net reserves                            .          -      -138      :398
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)                 -        -          .          .
Conversion rate (local/US$)                         -        .
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1970     1985        1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                           Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. UJS$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed               .         .      3,518     3,790
IBRD                                             .         ..       625       590
IDA                                             0.         .                  115                                A
590
Total debt service                                 .         ..       451       476 
IBRD                                             .         ..         .        12                                    15
IDA                                              ..        .          . 
I                        ~~~~~~~~46
Composition of net resource flows                                                             F                          D
Official grants                                                                           2024. 202
Private creditors
Foreign direct investment                                                                                            899... -
Portfolio equity.                                          -
World Bank program
Comm'itments                                                                            A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                                                        IBIODA       D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                            ..         *          .C1IMF                                          G - Short-term
Net flows                                        -         *          .         -      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _         _ _ _ _
Interest payments..                                        -
Net transfers
2/ Data refers only to the Federation of BiH. In Republika Srpska, annual percentage change in CPI was 204.4 in 1995 and -8.8 in 1996.
International Economics Department



16                                Tro Zagreb                                                     lo rOOsjok                19-
T. Zogeb                Te    Z     b            C  R 0   A  T  I A                    TO Vi4o-6ci
TO Osijek          "     
Z~~~~~~~~~~rijdor                                                             / +  Livnrod' V# zc
-43~~~~~~~~~~OI                                                                                                                                T._  B .1g  YUOSLVI
CROATIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dbon ,-f>k                                                                                            oovolo^Ds 
'U
BOSNIAANDRHERZEGOVINATIA9                                                                                                    4 YGOLAI
Z", I~~. 'p ~~Yb
Tra-i~~~~~~~~~~~T
ic.                              JLrot n~~~~~~~~~~~~p,,  .   ,k]N
EMERGENCY PILOT CREDIT PROJECT                                                                        >o9Prn>risc
- DAYTON AGREEMENT LINES           ELEVATIOJN IN METERS: .10                                          '4        ~         >':0
ETPUBuEAsRPSIEA  1000                                        .JLUU~~~~KAt   10'    *'       2'                       50
K.in 3- EEEU8UVASRFSRA                -IODO w_                                                         CZECH"  POLANDm              UKRIN
44- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ E 0~                                 UKAN
C ANTON BOUNDARIES           0 :.1                                                        EM NY..         -      FARf
-       ----MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES, .  _
RAILROADS       Li yno                                                             l                              /
RIVERS                                 42-_                                                                 , VI' oA     ROMANIA \.
-42~~~~~~~ o sElECTED cmEs                                                                                                        I')   '  S- -'|
95  NAR}ONAL CAR'AL                          *i FOLah  N                                                                 I,      j-61
-  -  INTERNLATIONAL8BOUNDARIES                                                                  ITALY        N       FLYt G/LOPA; BUGRA     S
AreS  ofmnp it4OA,.-'*
:                        0           ~~     ~     ~~     ~     ~~~~25  50 7                                40'                          LAI\ ./                    4ooE
KILOMETERS                                                                                         2GREECE                 30 a
9                                                                                                                                                                           TURKEY u
_                                              ~~~~~~~~~ ~~                                                       ~      ~      ~~1 7'  16 7r0'   20' 



