Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21526
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-30700; TF-20521; TF-20219; TF-21199)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF EQUIVALENT TO SDR 3.7 MILLION
TO BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
FOR THE
EMERGENCY PILOT CREDIT PROJECT
June 25, 2001
ECSPF
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA REGION
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 2001)
Currency Unit = Konvertible Marka (KM)
KM 2.2 = US$ 1.0
US$ 0.454 = KM 1.0
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BARS                Bank Agency of Republika Srpska
CLS                 Credit Line Section (PCU)
DEM                 Deutsche Mark
EPCP                Emergency Pilot Credit Project
GTZ                 German Association for Technical Cooperation
IAS                 International Accounting Standards
ICR                 Implementation Completion Report
KM                  Konvertible Marka
PAD                 Project Appraisal Document
PCU                 Project Coordination Unit
PFI                 Participating Financial Institution
PSR                 Project Status Reports
RS                  Republika Srpska
SIDA                Swedish International Development Agency
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Christiaan Poortman
Sector Manager:    Khaled Sherif
Sector Director:    Paul Siegelbaum
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Sonia Brajovic-Bratanovic



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
EMERGENCY PILOT CREDIT PROJECT
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       2
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 19
6. Sustainability                                                                     21
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      22
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    26
9. Partner Comments                                                                   28
10. Additional Information                                                            36
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  37
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  38
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  41
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  42
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  43
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     44
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 45
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P050892                                       Project Name: Emergency Pilot Credit for Republika
Srpska
Team Leader: S. Brajovic-Bratanovic                       TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 25, 2001
1. Project Data
NVame: Emergency Pilot Credit for Republika Srpska   L/C/TF Number: IDA-30700; TF-20521-;-
TF-20219; TF-21199
CounnylDepartment: BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA                                    Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: FS - Financial Sector Development
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  07/11/97                                Effective: 07/13/98            07/13/98
A4ppraisal:  10/21/97                                 MTR:  12/01/99
.4pproval:  05/19/98                               Closing: 06/30/2000           06/30/2000
Borrower/lImplementingAgenci,: BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINAJMINISTRY OF FINANCE; RS
Other Partners: UK, Netherlands, Austria, SIDA (Sweden), GTZ ( Germany), USAID
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes Linn                              Johannes Linn
Country Manager:     Christiaan J. Poortman                     Christiaan Poortman
Sector Manager:      Paul J. Siegelbaum                         Lajos Bokros
Team Leader at ICR:   Sonia Brajovic- Bratanovic                Michael Koch
ICR Primary Aluthor:   David Phillips



2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely. HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Inpact: M
Bank Pei jbr-iance: S
Botrower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)       ICR
Qualiry at Entrv:                       S
Project at Risk at A nY Time: No
The above ratings are based on the assessments provided in the text.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
.3.1 Original Objective:
The primary objectives of the project as set out in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) of April
1998 were: (i) to restart and expand private enterprise activities in Republika Srpska (RS) by way of
resource transfer through medium-term loans from commercial banks; and (ii) to improve credit
management capacity and loan administration skills of RS banks, laying the foundation for more ambitious
banking reforms under subsequent privatization-related projects.
Given the need to provide development assistance rapidly following the war in
Bosnia-Herzegovina, the objectives of the project were modest and were intended to have a favorable
near-term impact on banks and employment-generating, small-scale private enterprises. However, given
that this was an emergency operation and there was not enough time to carry out major restructuring of the
banking system, the rules of accreditation of the banks had to be more liberal than would have been the
case in a more stable economic situation. To compensate for this, operational procedures governing bank
on-lending were relatively restrictive. As such, the project's objectives reflected the realities of the local
situation, and were in line with the objectives of the CAS, which gave priority to economic reconstruction.
Given the expected ability of the Government to stay on course for reconstruction and to avoid major policy-
reversals, the objectives were low risk and realistic.
3.2 RevisedI Objective:
The PAD objectives were amended, informally and in the course of project implementation, to
explicitly include the objectives of technical assistance components covered by donor funding. These were
(i) to improve the safety and soundness of the banking system by providing assistance to build the capacity
of the banking supervision agency in RS, or BARS; and (ii) to improve the competitiveness and
profitability of private enterprises. These additional objectives were included in all the PSRs submitted
during the course of the project.
-2-



3.3 Original Components:
From the PAD the original components were as follows:
Table 1: Planned Proiect Cost by Components
Component         Category    Cost Incl. Contingencies    % of   Bank financing    % of Bank
_                         (US$M)         Total      (US$M)         financing
Line of credit       credit                  16.0             80          4.5            90
Bankers' training    inst. building            1.0             5          0.0             0
Enterprise support   inst. building           1.0              5          0.0             0
Banking supervision  inst. building           1.0              5          0.0             0
Implementation support  project mgt.          1.0              5          0.5            10
Total                               20.0            lO0          5.0           100
The principal component was enterprise investment finance through the line of credit, which, in
addition to the Bank's Credit, was funded by grants from the UK, Austrian and Dutch Governments. This
was backed up by a component for technical assistance to the participating banks supported by GTZ, and a
component for technical assistance to individual enterprises supported by SIDA. A fourth component
leveraged work already in progress, supported by USAID, whose objective was to strengthen banking
supervision and regulation. Finally, Bank resources supported the establishment of a Credit Line
management section (CLS) in the PCU.
The project components effectively supported the two main purposes of the project, namely (i) to
finance the re-start of production, and (ii) to initiate capacity building and institutional reform in the
banking system. The project's design reflected lessons learned from the Federation of Bosnia-Herzegovina
Emergency Recovery Credit (Credit No. 024030-BiH). The latter project disbursed US$22.5 million in
sub-loans from 1996-98 with only one non-performing sub-loan. Among the lessons of the previous project
taken into account in the design of the RS project were (i) the need to focus on a few suitable banks
evaluated by independent experts, so as to maximize the impact of technical assistance; (ii) to depoliticize
sub-loan approvals through a loan committee composed of technical experts; and (iii) to place credit risk
with the banks. This project's limited focus on four banks, and the planned size of the Credit Line amount,
were in line with the administrative capacity of the Government.
The concept and level of preparation of the project were constrained by a series of factors. First,
the timetable for emergency assistance was tight. Second, institutional capacity to support enterprises and
banks was not well developed. Consequently, enterprise assistance was channeled through the CLS, which
also leveraged off of the services of a UNIDO enterprise assistance project. Third, banking advice was
provided through a team of visiting advisors, but not formalized through a training/advisory center. Fourth,
the financing and coordination of the donor-financed components proved to be problematic. However, given
the timetable and limited objectives, the project concept and its implementation were satisfactory based on
measures of disbursement and loan performance, and responses from banks and enterprises on assistance
provided.
-3 -



3.4 Revised Components:
There were two principal adjustments in project components during implementation. First, the total
amount of the Credit Line actually available was smaller than what was anticipated at appraisal due to lack
of donor co-financing, as co-financiers provided only $2.96 million of the planned $11.5 million at
appraisal. Second, technical assistance to the CLS ended earlier than anticipated, with the remaining funds
being reallocated from the CLS to the actual Credit Line in December 1999. The project completion date
was extended from December 31, 1999 to March 31, 2000 to accommodate the reallocation.
In addition, some amendments were made to the credit guidelines in the course of implementation.
These amendments did not amount to a restructuring of the project, since the basic configuration and
objectives remained the same. The reduction in the size of the credit line arose from an unexpected
financing shortfall from donor partners. Other changes were course corrections agreed in the context of
project supervision.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
There was no formal QAE assessment by the Quality Advisory Group. The satisfactory QAE
rating in section 2 of this report is justified because the concept, overall design, and level of preparation of
the components under the control of the Bank were all satisfactory. Problems arose in the coordination of
multi-donor financing of the Credit Line that could possibly have been foreseen in the initial project
concept. However, the country circumstances (i.e., post-conflict recovery) made it essential to mount a
combined donor effort on short notice. This is discussed further in sections 4 and 5.
The rating for QAE is satisfactory - S.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Fulfillment of the objectives of this project was generally satisfactory. While the amount of
financing available to enterprises was only half of what was planned, a significant sum (about US$7.9
million-equivalent at prevailing exchange rates) was fully disbursed in enterprise credits in less than three
years with an excellent repayment record. Borrower enterprises seem to have been satisfied with the
efficiency of credit processing, especially in comparison with other available donor credit lines. Taking the
Credit Line component alone would justify a highly satisfactory rating.
The enterprise debt service record under the Credit Line was strong (only a 3% default rate)
considering the post-conflict business environment in the Balkan region, and the traditionally poor record of
debt service in the RS banking system. The positive portfolio performance seems to have reflected the high
quality of investment proposals, and a serious level of commitment from all the main stakeholders in the
project. This included the Project Coordination Unit, the participating banks, and the enterprise borrowers
themselves, combined with good monitoring of sub-loans by the Bank. Part of the reason for the high
success rate was also the discipline exerted by the PCU's position as a public agency.
The technical assistance components consisted of (i) assistance to the banking sector by
strengthening credit and risk management capacity in participating banks, (ii) enhanced supervision of the
banking system as an extension of risk management capacity-building, (iii) assistance to the enterprise
- 4 -



sector in areas such business planning, and (iv) assistance to the PCU. The banking assistance component
was designed and executed by GTZ. According to the participating banks surveyed for this report, and also
in the opinion of the BARS, this assistance itself was effective, as reflected by the improvements in the
level of nonperforming loans, loans to shareholders and lending to private sector. The parallel assistance in
the area of banking regulation and supervision, provided by USAID, was also successful, as reflected in the
training carried out and the series of banking laws and regulations adopted and implemented during the life
of the project. The enterprise assistance component (executed under the auspices of SIDA) initially ran into
problems, but subsequently improved and was assessed as satisfactory by the PCU and by the recipient
enterprises surveyed. Assistance to the PCU credit line section (CLS) was effective in helping the CLS to
reach the required level of credit management capacity for project implementation well ahead of schedule.
This was also due to the high quality of staff employed, not just as a result of the training provided. All the
credit funds available were utilized prior to the loan closing date. However, it must be stated that the
technical assistance to both the banks and to the banking and supervision agency was not enough to stop a
general decline in health of the banking sector over the life of the project. This deterioration was due to a
combination of a high concentration of risk on poor performing large clients, and some politically
motivated lending.
The project's achievements seem to have been regarded favorably when compared to other similar
projects. For example, the enterprises and banks surveyed for this report considered another donor credit
line to RS to be performing poorly. This was largely because the credit decisions were made centrally with
slow turnaround time. Another weakness of the other credit project was that decisions were made by the
project coordinator, rather than by the banks. In this case, the banks were working on an agency (fee) basis
without incentives to build their credit and collection capacity. This apparently resulted in a high proportion
of delinquencies.
The Bank's credit was, as noted, fully disbursed. The difference between the Credit Line's
appraised and actual cost (shown in Table 2) is due to the smaller than expected donor contribution.
Table 2: Planned and actual proiect costs by component (US$ million)
Project Cost by          Appraisal Actual Latest Actual % of
Component                Estimate  Estimate      Appraisal
Line of Credit                16.00         7.87      49%
Bankers Training               1.00          1.00     100%
Enterprise Support             1.00          1.00     100%
Banking Supervision            1.00          1.00     100%
Implementation Support         1.00         0.19      19%
Total Project Cost            20.00        11.06
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1. Sector policies
The project aimed to initiate economic recovery through the private sector, and to start the
rebuilding and transformation of the banking sector with a view toward privatization of the system. Reform
of the banking sector was supported by the combined impact of several project activities: (i) the process of
- 5-



auditing, accreditation and monitoring of the four participating banks; (ii) bank advisory and training to the
four banks; (iii) the development of banking laws and regulations during the project; and (iv) assistance to
upgrade the skills of BARS staff in the regulation and supervision of the system. The private sector was
supported by (i) the financing of more than 100 small- and medium-sized private enterprises (7-10 percent
of the agro-processing and manufacturing sector, respectively, in terms of registered firmns); (ii) technical
support to enterprises applying for loans; and (iii) general business advice for up to 200 enterprises. The
effect of these project activities was to provide substantive support to the development of the financial and
enterprise sectors simultaneously.
4.2.2. Physical objectives
A. Bank Lending to Enterprises
Key performance indicators
The PAD established a target of 130 sub-loans in the first project loan cycle (to private firms in
agro-processing and light industry), and the creation of 1,500 new jobs (at $1 1,000 per job), based on a
Credit Line amount of US$ 16 million.
Lending Performance
The Credit Line provided short- and medium-term financing, with a three-year maximum maturity
and up to six months grace. Loans were denominated in DEM with a maximum loan size of DEM 250,000
(about US$125,000). Interest rates were priced at a fixed rate with a maximum spread to the banks of 7
percent over the cost of funds (which was a minimum of 2 percent, and a maximum of the DEM LIBOR
rate less 2 percent). To be eligible, banks had to (i) be licensed, (ii) have two years of operating experience,
and (iii) remain in compliance with RS bank regulations, including maintaining positive net capital after
financial restructuring and debt relief. Four banks were chosen under these criteria and an additional
qualitative assessment of staff capacity.
Table 3: Approvals/ Disbursements to Enterprises by Donor (DEM million)
Source              Approved and Fully Disbursed
IDA                                 8.983
Austrian Grant                      0.931
UK Grant                            3.116
Dutch grant                         1.955
Total                              14.985
Source: PCU
As a result of the project, between December 1998 and June 30, 2000, 111 sub-loans to 107
enterprises were provided, totaling DEM 14.98 million (about US$ 7.5 million-equivalent). The sub-loans
enabled almost all recipient firms to improve their production capacity, increase their working capital, and
to initiate start-up operations (in the case of those funded under the Austrian grant). The average size of
each sub-loan was DEM 134,000 (approximately US$70,000). The number of sub-loans is slightly below
the output target for the project, although this is a satisfactory result considering that the total credit fund
was only about half the planned size. The smaller average size of the loans translated into loan funds being
adequate for many of the borrowers' needs. It is unknown if more loans or larger loans would have been
- 6 -



made if the total credit fund had been capitalized with the originally planned US$16 million. One hundred
percent of the funds actually made available from each of the sources were disbursed.
Among the I I sub-loans disbursed, only four were classified as sub-standard, doubtful or loss ('C'
to 'E') by the lending banks. Despite the rapid rate of disbursement under the project, there were no other
problem sub-loans (either restructured, or with service payments more than 90 days past due) by the
project closing date. This is despite the difficulties caused by the loss of the Serbian market in 1999, and
the generally weak performance of other bank lending in RS. The delinquencies were in poultry, cattle
farming, sawmilling, and detergent manufacturing. The reasons for the delinquencies included (i) poor
management combined with alleged foreign dumping; (ii) the death of an owner; (iii) technological
problems combined with unwise barter sales agreements; and (iv) delays in the receipt of equipment.
Subsidiary loan obligations from the banks to the PCU were fully met. (The subsidiary and sub-loans were
back-to-back.)
The low delinquency rate may be explained largely by the sound appraisal of proposals. At the
bank level, reportedly three out of four applications were not accepted for reasons of ineligibility,
non-viability or lack of collateral. The banks appear to have been diligent in their appraisal of applicants,
with site visits and effective credit committee work. Of the 133 sub-loan applications passed on to the CLS
by the banks, a further 21 (16 percent) were subsequently rejected at the PCU level, and one approved
application was withdrawn. It is also noteworthy that the rapid drawdown of credit occurred without
lending to the commercial trade sector or other services, which would have provided an additional large
market for loan finance. Finally, the satisfactory flow of proposals occurred despite relatively high
collateral requirements, which were at 170 percent or more of the estimated loan value.
Performance of participating banks
The participating banks were all majority state-owned, but were expected to be privatized in the
future. The decision to lend through state-owned banks was based on the recognition that re-starting
production and generating employment had to take precedence in the prevailing reconstruction environment
over needed but more time-consuming structural reforms. Three of the participating banks were based in
Banja Luka, and one outside. By participating bank and by sub-sector, lending volume up to project
completion was as follows:
Figure 1: Lending by bank and by sub-sector
Lending volume by bank                Lending volume by subsector
2% 12%
8%   -               3-_J8%
6%                             5%.
22%                                  ~~~~~~~~~~29%
22%   _               --- 62%
* Agriculture, food  U Wood, fumiture
o Metal products   0 Chemical products
* Publishing       U Constr. materials
|*N Knstal * Banya Luka 0 Agroprom 0 Semberska  a Texties, garments    a Other
-7 -



Kristal Bank was the most active of the four participating banks, with 66 sub-loans, followed by
Banja Luka Bank (24) and Agroprombank (11). Semberska Bank, located outside Banja Luka, did the
smallest amount of business (six loans). Of the four delinquent sub-loans, two were held by Kristal, and
one each by Agroprom and Banja Luka. The sub-sector breakdown of lending was concentrated (two
thirds) in local resource-based industries, mainly food processing and wood products. The other one third
of loans were in a wide range of other industries. Trade and distribution enterprises were excluded. The
geographic spread of lending was fairly wide. While the lending was somewhat concentrated by bank, the
sub-sectoral spread was reasonably broad.
Evaluation of borrowing enterprises'performance
One of the critical factors in assessing the development effectiveness of the Credit Line is to assess
its value added in terms of institutional contribution as well as direct financing. A mid-project evaluation
surveyed 27 enterprises in 10 towns in early 2000. The report found that the large majority of enterprises
surveyed planned to expand their capacity further, and were thinking of applying for follow-up loans for
about half of their required new investment. Less than half of the enterprises surveyed could have financed
the existing project without the loan, but they would have had to delay and reduce the size of their
investment. Only one quarter had access to other sources of funding (usually small grants and credits from
donors, or short-term bank loans), and one third would not have been able to invest at all.
The study also found that the Credit Line was leveraging co-financing at a ratio of 1.25:1. Thus,
about US$8 million of Credit Line funds may have mobilized another US$10 million in outside loans and
equity. The same study estimated that sub-loans were going approximately 70 percent by value for fixed
investment, and 30 percent for working capital. Pure working capital loans were granted in about 20
percent of cases. The concentration on fixed investment, even when pure working capital loans were
available, is surprising and contrary to the expectations at the time of the PAD. This suggests that investors
wanted to focus on longer-term expansion and re-equipment. These findings suggest that the project both
added to the flow of available resources, and successfully enabled a net addition to productive capacity.
Table 4: Enterprises Surveyed for this Report
Type       Loan size   Debt       Economic  Increase in Increase   Increase in   Increase in Increase in Comments
(DEM)    history       Viability   Assets    in output  employment  revenue    exports
percent   percent    percent       percent    percent
Eggs       200,000    Delinquent   Potential   n.a.     n.a.       n.a           n.a         n.a        Enterprise
____________                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~failed
Animal feed 250,000    on time    likely      +30        +900       +80           +120       nil        switched
percent    percent    percent      percent                products
Pasta      250,000    on time     potential    +300      +120       +100          +400                  20 percent of
percent    percent    percent      percent                output
__________  ____________  ~ ~  ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~-          exported
Sawmill   250,000    on time      yes         60         same (new  +100          +120       +120       Bank-loan <3
percent    products)  percent      percent    percent    percent of
.________  ___________                                                   _________       total  financing
Garments   100,000    on time     likely      infinite    zero start                                    new start
from                                           _ _ _ _
Doors/     250,000   on time      likely     +25        +80        +100          +80         nil
windows    _percent    percent    percent                                        percent
Six enterprises were surveyed for this report, with five fully servicing their debt and one in trouble.
- 8 -



The enterprise in trouble (egg production) had failed because of inadequate financial planning, and because
1999 imports from the European Union were apparently dumped at prices that created serious difficulties
for RS egg producers.
The extent to which the output and employment achievements are directly attributable to the
Bank's project varies. In some cases, the Bank's credit was the major source of financing, and the results
are directly attributable. In other cases (e.g., a sawmill), the Bank provided partial funding in conjunction
with others. However, in that case, the owner stated that the loan had still been important. Apart from the
one failed enterprise, this group of firms shows significant increases in most output-related indicators, as
well as up-to-date loan servicing.
The CLS has estimated the following results for all sub-loan recipients.
Number of sub-loans provided: the 111 sub-loans granted was slightly below the target of 130,
but still adequate considering the lower total credit availability.
Production increased in more than 100 enterprises by an average of four times (maximum ten
times).
Employment creation in credit-funded enterprises was about 1,000, implying a cost per job of
about US$7,000. This is considerably better than the target of US$1 1,000 per job. If unregistered
workers were included, the number of jobs created per unit of investment would be higher.
Exports increased, or were expected to increase, in about half of the financed enterprises,
especially to Yugoslavia. Twenty percent of credit recipients, mainly in the wood products group,
were expected to increase their exports to the European Union.
Capital in the financed enterprises increased because eligibility for sub-loans required a 30 percent
equity-to-debt ratio, and many enterprises raised equity capital to meet this requirement.
Access to credit increased in terms of total funds available and in reduced processing time.
It should be noted that, while less than expected, the capital cost per job created under the project
(US$7,000) seems fairly high in comparison with that of other similar projects. A Bank study of SME
lending estimated an average investment per job of US$5,800 across 33 projects at 1986 prices, equivalent
to approximately US$8,800 at prices of 2000. The sub-loan value per incremental job created was, under
the same assumptions, at about US$4,000, although higher for above average sub-loan size. (The average
sub-loan size in the RS project was relatively large.) However, the probability is that a large proportion of
the workers employed during the RS project were unrecorded. If so, this would likely to have brought down
the cost-per-job to a more comparable level, implying that the project probably generated an average level
of employment.
Transaction costs of sub-loans were moderate. According to the evaluation study, most loan
applicants were satisfied with bank procedures. Twenty percent experienced delays of more than four
months in obtaining loans, partly because of the uncertain political situation. The majority (80 percent)
obtained their loans within four months of application.
-9-



B. Technical support to Enterprises
Key performance indicator
The PAD target was to assist 200 firms with the preparation of business plans and strategies. The
assistance had to include both business planning and other advice, such as export/import financing
considerations.
Overall performance
Technical assistance was provided mainly to firms applying for loans under the project. The
performance of the 107 enterprises that received 111 sub-loans and technical assistance by loan closing
date was satisfactory, as shown in paragraph 4.2.2 above. The total number of registered enterprises in
existence when the project was initiated is shown in Table 5. The target area of the project was principally
SME, manufacturing, and agribusiness. Out of a universe of 1,000 to 1,500 firms in these sub-sectors, the
project provided funding to between 7 and 10 percent of the target group of enterprises.
Table 5: Universe of enterprises in 1997
Sector              Total               Private             Nonprivate           Employment
enterprises         enterprises         enterprises
Agriculture, forestry,  587             311                 276                  13,850
fishing
Mining, SME,        1075                577                 498                  81,810
manufacturing
Total               1662                888                 774                 95,660
Source: PAD
Technical assistance to the enterprises was provided by SIDA. The first group of consultants
provided was not effective in delivering advisory services because they were unable to perform under
difficult logistical conditions. They were replaced after 18 months. The replacements were more successful,
and worked effectively in cooperation with the Association of Entrepreneurs and the UNIDO Enterprise
Assistance Project. Officials with those groups expressed satisfaction with SIDA's replacements'
contribution.
A total of 12 seminars were held for about 120 enterprise owners. Areas of instruction included
business planning, SME management, export planning and strategy, equipment importation, and product
marketing. Recipient enterprises surveyed expressed general satisfaction with the training provided,
although the management time needed for off-site direct training led to requests by enterprises to adopt a
"train the trainers"- approach to build up local capacity through on-site training. In addition to direct
training, on-the-spot consulting assistance was provided by the consultants to another 50 or so enterprises.
Some enterprises visited were concerned entirely with securing loans, and did not feel that the
enterprise assistance added significant value. Others considered that the training and consulting services
were useful, and all commented on the active approach of the assistance program. This view was bome out
by the Ministry of Industry, which requested an extension of the period of assignment of the two
- 10 -



replacement consultants appointed in the latter part of the project. Taking these inputs into account, the
PAD target for enterprises assisted was probably surpassed.
C. Support to the Banking Sector
Key Performance Indicators and Objectives
A key performance indicator in the PAD was to train the staff of participating banks in risk and
credit management. Credit management was to include the full credit cycle, portfolio and asset-liability
management, and lending structure. Strengthening the banking system as a whole was a major
institution-building objective of the project, to be measured in terms of lending structure, financial status,
and portfolio quality. As well, a major banking sector indicator established in the PAD was the
strengthening of the Banking Agency through the application of internationally accepted prudential
regulations and accounting standards, enhanced on-site inspections and off-site surveillance, and
development of risk management and early warning systems.
Participating Bank Development
Training of staff of the four participating banks was achieved through technical assistance
provided by GTZ through Bank Akademie of Germany. TA included (i) advisory assistance (SWOT
analysis and strategic planning), and (ii) hands-on and classroom training in credit management, risk
management, and credit administration. The survey carried out for this report found that both aspects of
institution building were considered satisfactory. A total of about 30 staff were trained in the three banks
that were surveyed for this report. The credit management training was thought to be of more value than
the risk management training. Survey respondents indicated that the training could have been improved
with more local case studies.
Each bank stated that during the life of the project, it had strengthened loss identification and
provisioning, tightened up loan collection procedures, and introduced extemal IAS audit (as mandated
under 1999 BARS regulations). Credit procedures were upgraded at all banks, and unsecured lending
(rather than just collateralized lending) was introduced through the Credit Line.
However, changes in banking regulations make it difficult to accurately assess progress in the
financial and qualitative performance of participating banks from June 30, 1998 (the "as of' date for
Opening Balance Sheets in the privatization process, and the approximate starting date of the EPCP)
through year-end 2000. During the period, new banking regulations imposed stricter standards for loan
classification, risk concentration, and provisions for potential loan losses. As well, capital requirements
were increased, and year 2000 audits were required to comply with IAS, making year-to-year comparisons
difficult. While these changes move the RS banking sector closer to international standards for prudential
regulations, they also would tend to reflect weaknesses in the banking system not previously noted. Banks
have been slow to fully comply with the new requirements, especially loan loss provisions.
Also, when viewing financial data, it is important to note that the RS Law on Privatization of
Banks precludes majority state-owned banks, including these four, from issuing new shares during the
privatization process. Consequently, any increases in capital reflected above are derived from revaluation
of fixed assets, retained earnings and other sources. According to local accounting standards, fixed assets
may be revalued on the basis of inflation, rather than marking-to-market as allowed under IAS.
Marking-to-market remains difficult in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as in other transition economies, because
of the lack of market information and limited market for real estate. However, increasing the value of fixed
- 11 -



assets according to inflation may result in an overstatement of fixed assets and, consequently, the
revaluation reserves component of capital.
Table 6: Participating Banks' Financial Performance, 6/30/98 to 12/31/2000 (KM Millions)
Agroprom       Banja Luka        Kristal        Semberska
1998   2000   1998   2000   1998   2000   1998   2000   All RS
Banks
Year
2000
Total Capitala                          7.4    12.7   23.5    33.9    10.9   26.0       4.1      5.6    186.1
Total Assetsa (adjusted for reserves)    26.6   26.8    99.0   106.2    96.0   161.6    13.5    12.8    598.3
Total Capital/Total Assetsa           27.8   47.4    31.9    31.9    11.3    16.1    30.3    43.4        31.1
Fixed Assets/Total Assets             10.1    25.7      8.1    19.0     8.6    10.0    11.8    27.3       19.8
Net Incomea                            n/a      .2      n/a     .4      n/a      .6     n/a      .1       -3.2
% Nonperforming Loansb                  30      25      56      34      22       15     n/a     n/a        n/a
% Loans to Shareholdersb                30      10      48      45       55      37     n/a     n/a        n/a
% Long-Term Lendingb                    21      17      44      33      33       44     n/a     n/a        n/a
% Lending to Private Sectorb            20      46      20      30      27       40     n/a     n/a        n/a
a Sources: 6/30/98 unaudited data from approved Opening Balance Sheets; 12/31/2000 data from Banking Agency
of Republika Srpska "Report on Condition of RS Banking System in the Year 2000," dated March 200 1. Balances are adjusted
to reflect only "active" balances (i.e., after cleaning of balance sheets of state banks in preparation for privatization). "Total
Assets" are adjusted for reserves for potential loan losses. Kristal's capital for 1998 and 2000 was reduced by 3.4 million KM
by the decision of the Bank Privatization  Unit and in accordance with the Law on Privatization of Banks that precludes
issuance of new shares during the privatization process.
b Source: As reported by individual banks to the ICR mission. Includes restructured loans, past due and write-offs.
Based on results reported by the banks to the ICR mission, some improvement is indicated in the
level of nonperforming loans, loans to shareholders and lending to private sector. Of the participating
banks, only Kristal reported an increase in long-term lending, which is due, in part, to its high utilization of
the EPCP. However, it is important to note that the ratios may be distorted by over-valuation of fixed
assets and under-provisioning for bad loans. As indicated in Table 6, fixed assets as a percent of total
assets grew in each bank, raising questions about their valuation.
Institution Building
As noted above, strengthening the banking system as a whole was a major institution-building
objective of the project, to be measured in terms of lending structure, financial status and portfolio quality.
At the time of project preparation, banks in both Entities (RS and the Federation of Bosnia and
Herzegovina) were illiquid and generally unable to perform significant lending services other than those
refinanced through donor-provided Credit Lines. The banking system was hampered by effects of the war,
and a non-commercial orientation that characterized banks in former Yugoslavia-connected lending to
public enterprise owners of the banks, excess concentration of risk to key shareholders, distorted loan
classifications, and a passive administrative role in disbursing credits to their owners.
- 12 -



In the RS, as in the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the poor quality of lending eroded asset
values massively, and the effects of the war led to further non-performance of loans. Hyperinflation from
the late 1980s into the 1 990s erased local currency values, and with it the savings and confidence of the
public. The subsequent conflict led to a curtailment of international lending flows that had been routinely
passed through the domestic banking system to finance large enterprise projects. By the end of the war in
late 1995, these general trends, combined with the imposition of sanctions (which began in 1992), led to a
loss of liquidity, evaporation of confidence, and a virtual halt to banking operations in the country. It was
on this foundation that the Emergency Pilot Credit Project was created.
Key objectives of the Government's reform strategy were the rapid privatization of state-owned
banks, the liquidation of insolvent banks, the entry of foreign banks, and the strengthening of banking
supervision.
As part of the privatization process, banks' balance sheets were restructured. The frozen foreign
currency deposits, state debts, and certain other assets and liabilities outside the banks' control were carved
out. All state banks were determined to be solvent and eligible for privatization on the basis of the resulting
"active" Opening Balance Sheets (OBS), dated June 30, 1998. However, bank privatization, originally
envisioned to be completed by early 2000, has been slow. Despite repeated attempts, the Government was
successful in selling a majority stake in only one (Agroprom) of the 11 majority state-owned RS banks. By
the end of 2000, state-owned banks still dominated the sector, representing 75 percent of total assets in all
18 RS banks. This has had an adverse impact on the banking sector. Without access to increased share
capital coupled with continued lack of public confidence and a low level of deposits, these banks have been
unable to significantly expand their loan portfolios. These constraints also limit their ability to apply and
integrate good credit skills learned through the technical assistance provided under the EPCP.
Delays in bank privatization may also have led to moral hazard, as bank managers and employees,
fearing replacement by new owners, have little incentive to pursue best practices in bank operations. In its
year-end 2000 report, the Banking Agency reports that the asset quality of banks as a whole has further
deteriorated (e.g., 59 percent increase in loans classified B, C and D), and that general and special reserves
for potential loan losses are insufficient. Some of this apparent deterioration is attributable to more
stringent asset classification requirements implemented in 2000. Decreasing profitability of the banking
system (i.e., net profit for all banks decreased from KM 10 million in 1999 to net loss of KM 3.2 million in
2000) would be even further exacerbated if banks established adequate provisions out of earnings. Again,
stricter provisioning requirements brought to light the poor financial condition of the banks more accurately
than earlier reported based on distorted accounting techniques. It is important to note that only four banks
(three state; one private) account for all year 2000 losses. The four EPCP participating banks were
marginally profitable, albeit some may not be profitable if adequate provisions for loan losses were made.
With severe limitations to increasing capital and expanding their loan portfolios, state banks
significantly increased off-balance sheet exposures (i.e., guarantees and letters of credit) as a source of fee
income. Such expansion has occurred without full understanding and analysis of the attendant risks of
these liabilities. Consequently, they are under-provisioned. At the same time, the proportion of interest
income continues to be a minority of total income.
Despite the constraints, banks reported lower cash and higher loans in 2000 compared to 1999,
reflecting an increase in lending activities and generating a higher proportion of income attributable to
interest. Deposits increased 30 percent, and new citizens' savings, although still quite small at 54 million
KM, grew by 77 percent.
- 13-



C
Table 7: Performance Data for RS Bankin2 System (KM Millions)
1999                    2000
State  Private  Total  State   Private   Total  2000 / 1999
"Active" Loans                 266.0     27.8  293.8  275.4       68.8  344.2          117
90_S      9.9  100.     800      20.0   100.0  I__i _
Share Capital                   96.2    26.9  123.1    85.8       56.9  142.7          116
New Citizen Savings             26.4       4.0   30.4    43.8      9.9    53.7         177
Number of Employees            3,644      116  3,760   2,421      276   2,697           72
% of Total                    96.9      3.1  100.0    89.8     10.2  100.0
Assets per Employee                              0.16    0.20     0.59    0.24
Total Balance Sheet Assets                      604.8                    651.2         108
(unadjusted for reserves)
Total Off-Balance Assets                        115.8                    141.6         122
Cash                                            146.9                    126.9          86
Short-term Loans                                178.8                    221.5         124
Long-term Loans                                  87.6                     93.0         106
Interest Income/Total Income                     35.3                     41.2
Net Income                                      9,994  -4,826    1,625 1 -3,201
Total Deposits                                  262.2                    340.0         130
c Source: BARS "Report on Condition of RS Banking System in the Year 2000," dated March 2001.
Comparable data for 1998 were not available, so 1999 data are provided for comparison.
d Reduction in staff at state-owned banks resulted primarily from reallocation of staff during separation
of the payment bureau from the state-owned development bank.
The weaknesses noted above have adversely impacted the marketability of the state banks. Under
RS law, if a bank is not privatized within a specified period, it is to be liquidated. That deadline is near for
all the unsold state banks. It may not be feasible to simultaneously close and liquidate banks holding nearly
three-fourths of the sector's assets and majority of deposits without a viable alternative to serve the
corporate sector's and population's banking needs. Although the private banks are growing (see Table 7)
and foreign-owned, Federation-licensed banks are beginning to open branches in the RS, they still are too
small to adequately serve the RS market. Therefore, the international community has begun to discuss
altematives with the Government for restructuring the banking sector as a matter of urgency with the
overall objective of strengthening the sector and assuring at least one strong priv%ate bank in the RS.
Strengthening of the Banking A2encv of Republika Srpska
The Banking Agency of Republika Srpska (BARS), created in March 1998, has received technical
assistance from USAID from its inception. Early technical assistance emphasized the development of laws,
regulations, policies, procedures and examiner training. This has transitioned to refinement and
enhancement of skills and process to deal with problem banks, intervention, and enforcement.
The following key actions reflecting continued strengthening of BARS were achieved since the
- 14 -



inception of the Emergency Pilot Credit Project:
*     A comprehensive banking law was passed.
*      BARS issued and implemented new, stricter prudential regulations aligned with the Basle
Committee's Core Principles for Effective Bank Supervision. Regulations cover such areas as liquidity
risk management, internal and extemal audits, internal controls, non-performing loans, bank licensing,
insolvency, connected lending and concentration of risk, asset classification, capital management, and
foreign currency risk.
*     New bank reports that substantially meet International Accounting Standards and are based on
U.S. bank reports were introduced, and BARS and bank staff trained in their use. BARS analyzes the
banking sector and issues quarterly reports on the condition of RS banks.
*      Basic and advanced bank supervision training courses covering examinations, accounting, credit
analysis, asset classification, liquidity, foreign exchange and ethics have been conducted for examiners.
Courses are based on Western-style bank supervision and support the Basle Committee's Core Principles.
Most classroom training is followed by on-the-job training with U.S. bank supervision advisors working
side-by-side with RS examiners during bank exams. RS examiners have transitioned into the leadership
role on these examinations, and are now only assisted by the advisors. As well, key agency staff have
participated in intensive four-week foreign-based training programs.
Full-scope on-site examinations have been completed for all banks.
*     A bank rating system and operational manual has been instituted.
While the Agency continues to build capacity, it is faced with two challenges that threaten its
autonomy: (i) its inability to generate enough fees, due to the weak banking system, to sustain itself; and
(ii) the reporting structure to Government could impair its independence, especially when faced with
difficult decisions about closing banks. An international group for coordination of banking sector issues is
helping BARS to deal with these important issues.
In conclusion, the EPCP was successful in introducing good practice credit procedures into
participating banks and in building capacity of individual staff members to originate and monitor credits.
Unfortunately, the banking enviromnent, burdened by continued state dominance and inability to increase
share capital, was not conducive to full integration of these good practices within the participating banks,
nor the banking sector as a whole. The technical assistance to the supervision agency was overall more
successful, but the it unclear whether the agency will be able to continue its activities at the same level once
the aid is cut off. The current challenges of the RS banking sector remain rooted in the delayed
privatization of the banks, and will only be alleviated by intense, urgent intervention in restructuring the
sector. A strengthened BARS is positioned to play a key role in this process.
D. Assistance to and Operation of the PCU/CLS
Initially, assistance was provided by SIDA, but this was cut short because local credit officers
reached proficiency rapidly. The main value added of SIDA input was in developing model business plans
which were included as part of the credit files of each sub-loan. The group of borrower enterprises
surveyed for this report were generally pleased with the efficiency and speed of the credit processing
procedures, especially in comparison with other available donor credit lines.
There were three levels of clearance (i.e., within the participating bank, the PCU, and the Bank),
which could have delayed approvals. However, supervision efforts ensured that the evaluation of proposals
was promptly completed, usually within seven days by the participating bank. Submissions were turned
- 15 -



around rapidly by the Bank, so that most projects were approved within three months from the first
submission to the participating bank. A feature that was welcomed by applicants was the immediate
feedback to the applicant in the case of a rejected application. It was also the general view that the
clearance procedures provided a useful learning process in credit management. The PCU/CLS operated an
effective, computerized, integrated credit management system that incorporated tracking systems for
sub-loan and subsidiary loan disbursements and repayments.
No problems were expressed over the application of procurement rules. Borrowers were quite
willing to go through the process of obtaining competitive suppliers' quotations. Disbursement clearances
through the Ministry of Foreign Trade were slow at first, but later accelerated. The participating banks had
adequate correspondent banks to facilitate payments for imports. After initial skepticism about high
transaction costs, caused by experiences with other credit lines, applicants indicated they found the Bank's
Credit Line relatively easy to access. The Chamber of Commerce reported that the CLS and the Credit Line
itself were instrumental in supporting business ideas through active help with sub-loan preparation, and by
introducing discipline into the term lending process through appraisal procedures.
4.2.3. Financial Objectives
The total planned and actual expenditure under the project, broken down by major source is shown
in Table 8.
Table 8: Planned and actual project cost bv component (US$ million)
Project Component  Appraisal Estimate          Actual - Latest              Actual As Percentage of
Estimate                    Appraisal Estimate
Bank   Govern-   Cofin-    Bank  Govern    Cofin-     Bank  Govern    Cofin-
ment    anciers           -ment   anciers            -ment   anciers
Line of Credit     4.50    0.00       11.50    4.91   0.00       2.96  109%    0%        26%
Bankers Training    0.00    0.00       1.00    0.00   0.00       1.00   0%      0%      100%
Enterprise          0.00    0.00       1.00    0.00   0.00        1.00   0%     0%      100%
Support
Banking             0.00    0.00       1.00    0.00   0.00        1.00   0%     0%      100%
Supervision
PCU/CLS             0.50    0.20       0.30    0.09   0.20       0.10   18%    100%      33%
Total Cost          5.00    0.20      14.80    5.00   0.20       6.06 _              1
Actual expenditure under the project was US$11.06 million, 55 percent of the level planned at the
time of appraisal. The financing shortfall affected the Credit Line, which received only 49 percent of the
planned total funding (US$7.87 million), as co-financiers provided only $2.96 million of the planned $11.5
million at appraisal. Implementation support expenditure (to the PCU/CLS) was canceled early as it was
not needed, and the balance was transferred to the Credit Line. The Govemment's contribution is
approximated, since it was supplied in non-monetary terms through the provision of office space and
equipment. The table shows that the co-financing gap was greatest for the Credit Line (only 26 percent of
the planned contribution), while the Bank contribution to the Credit Line exceeded plan because of the
reallocation of funds from the PCU.
The overall rate of disbursement of the Bank credit itself was close to the planned rate, with a
maximum disbursement lag of 16 percent noted in the PSR of April 1999, and an average disbursement lag
- 16 -



of below 10 percent. The credit was fully disbursed by December 1999, six months ahead of schedule. A
reallocation of funds from the CLS to the Credit Line in December 1999 was facilitated by an extension of
the completion date from December 31, 1999 to March 31, 2000. However, the Credit closing date did not
have to be changed, and remained at June 30, 2000.
4.2.4. Institutional development objectives
Section 4.2.2 above set out the institutional outputs of this project. In the real sector, the main
focus of the project was on the recovery of agro-processing and light manufacturing output for meaningful
employment creation. Consequently, a significant proportion of new or recently established private
enterprises in a wide range of industries were given investment and technical support. Since the vast
majority of financed enterprises were up to date on their loan service at the time of project completion (the
CLS knew of no more than four problem loans), there is a reasonable probability that the assisted
enterprises as a whole will yield positive returns in the long term, strengthening the private sector and
market.
In addition, the four banks that were assisted increased their capacity for credit management,
strategic planning, auditing, loan classification and loss provisioning. They also show some evidence of
strengthening performance in recovering on delinquencies, reducing connected lending, and increasing
private sector lending. The banks also increased average loan maturity, partly based on improved credit
risk assessment capacity. However, the environment remains very fragile. New regulations on minimum
capital will force consolidation of the system. This will strengthen the banking system, but will also cause
closures or mergers of banks unable to meet the minimum standard, including possibly those participating
banks that have not found buyers under the privatization program.
Due to the emergency nature of the project, technical assistance components for enterprise and
bank assistance were not located within an organized institutional setting (except for the assistance to the
BARS), partly because the institutional framework at the time of project start-up was not sufficiently in
place. The enterprise advisory support was eventually housed in the office of the CLS, with the informal
help of UNIDO and the Association of Private Entrepreneurs. Capacity for providing enterprise advice was
not institutionalized through this project, through either a support facility or a market support fund.
Similarly, bank advisory assistance was not located in an institutional structure, such as an advisory or
training center that could provide continuity. Apart from providing continuity, an advantage to using
institutional entities to undertake these activities is the possibility of partial or full cost recovery. However,
as noted, institutions were not sufficiently in place to make this a viable option at the time of project
start-up. Given pressure to implement quickly, these parallel channels were utilized to accelerate the
implementation schedule.
4.2.5. The appropriateness of the project's design
As stated, the credit was provided to an economy recently disrupted by war, with an uncertain
economic outlook, weak and unreformed banks, and limited institutional infrastructure and regulatory
enforcement capacity. The state of the banking system and lack of accurate information did not permit the
establishment of tight accreditation criteria for participating banks. As a result, and justifiably, the
accreditation criteria for the participating banks were relatively liberal, while the operational guidelines
were relatively restrictive and closely controlled by the Bank. The credit was confined to existing
manufacturing and agribusiness, with the exception being a few start-ups allowed under Austrian funding
for up to DEM 100,000 ($50,000). The trade/distribution sector was excluded. The sub-loan maximum for
existing enterprises (apart from the Austrian-financed loans) was DEM 250,000 (about US$125,000
- 17-



during the project), which meant that small enterprises were the main focus. The maximum term was
limited to three years, with restrictions on enterprises' borrowing from other sources (to avoid the problem
of multiple pledges of collateral and excess leverage).
Close supervision was needed to ensure that approvals were not delayed. There was no free limit
for decentralized sub-loan approvals, three levels of clearance for each sub-loan were required, and there
were slight differences in the terms applicable to different Credit Line sources.
Some of the features of the Credit Line, such as liberal accreditation criteria, the relatively low
sub-loan ceiling, and lack of a free limit, are unusual and might be differently designed in more regular
economic circumstances. However, these features also contributed to better loan portfolio performance.
Furthermore, given that average loan size was US$70,000, the sub-loan limit does not appear to have been
a problem or constraint. Some efforts were made to amend the guidelines during supervision missions, and
the design of the possible follow-up project has made changes in all these areas. Nonetheless, changes in
future operations will also need to take into account what was positively implemented during this first pilot
project.
The credit appraisal unit was housed within the PCU. This location seems to have worked well in
practice because of strong and relatively independent management. However, this responsibility meant that
the PCU needed to divert its attention from its central purpose of Bank and donor project administration,
disbursement and reporting. While in this project the PCU seems to have been independent and well
managed, its location within the Government could potentially compromise the autonomy of the approval
process and deter private sector sub-loan applicants. A follow-up project may consider locating the credit
line management in an independent unit outside the Government, or in the BARS, to remove the
responsibility for credit processing from a department close to Govermnent. The unit would be able to
charge fees for service, and possibly become commercially viable over time.
The performance criteria set out in annex I of the PAD were acceptable. However, they could have
been elaborated and quantified further, especially in the case of the bank lending structure targets and
BARS institution-building targets, while assigning the greatest weight in evaluating performance to the
largest component, the credit line.
4.3 Net Present Value/Econonmic rate of return:
As is customary in the case of line of credit projects, a NPV was not calculated, since there are too
many unknowns. However, a good attempt was made in the PAD to carry out a cost-benefit analysis based
on 11 sample projects from 23 enterprises visited during project preparation. The study found that the
average debt service coverage ratio for all II projects was well above the minimum required to ensure
financial viability, ranging from 1.3 to 2.5. The projects were expected to generate 1,500 jobs at a rate of
US$10,800 invested per job. About 130 sub-loans valued at US$16 million were expected to be justified,
and this was adopted as a performance target.
As outlined above, the relatively stringent controls over approvals and the screening of proposals
ensured, as far as possible, viable projects and a strong loan repayment rate. The technical assistance
components proved to be effective for this project. Accordingly, it is probable that if an ex-post return were
to be calculated, that it would show a satisfactory NPV.
- 18 -



4.4 Financial rate of retirn:
The sub-projects were expected to yield a debt-service coverage ratio of 1.3: 1, which would imply
the ability to service sub-loans at the financing cost of 9 percent over a three-year term. This is a
satisfactory result. The financial return of the project could have been improved by designing the technical
assistance on a cost-recovery basis. However, as stated, the circumstances of the project did not make this
a priority.
4.5 Institutionial development impact:
The above sections have discussed the project's institutional development impact in the case of (i)
the 100 or so profitable enterprises which are likely to continue to benefit beyond the life of the project; (ii)
the strategic planning and credit management skills learned both in the CLS and participating banks; and
(iii) the improvements in the banking system arising from the introduction of new laws and regulations, and
enhanced supervisory capacity.
While the institutional development impact could probably have been further strengthened by
locating both bank and enterprise assistance components within a sustainable institutional setting focused
on cost recovery, it is likely that the project will still have a positive institutional development impact.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or inplementing agenicy:
This project focused on private sector lending and investment. This meant that, beyond the design
and implementation of the project, the Government could not have a high degree of control over the
activities of the main players: the donor agencies (including the Bank), the participating banks, or the
enterprises and their clients and suppliers. Therefore, to a large extent, the Government's implementing
agency depended on the effective contributions of these outside agencies to be effective. The overall success
of the project shows that these implementing agencies acted effectively together. The combination of good
quality investment proposals by potential borrowers, rigorous screening of sub-loan applications by the
participating banks (who took the credit risk), strong management by the PCU, and relatively rapid
turnaround and close monitoring by the Bank all permitted the Credit Line to perform satisfactorily, even in
the uncertain macroeconomic and business environment, and even given the initial uncertainty about the
solvency, profitability and management capacity of the accredited banks. Thus, the Govermment was
generally able to rely on effective outside agencies.
The main issue that did affect the project adversely was the difficulty in donor funding
coordination, with six donor agencies in addition to the Bank. Problems of coordination resulted in a 50
percent Credit Line financing shortfall. These issues also affected the technical assistance program, since
German and Swedish advisory programs took time to get under way. However, as explained in section 4,
once under way, these programs produced satisfactory results, as indicated by responses from the banks
and, to a lesser (albeit satisfactory) extent, the enterprises assisted (see 4.2.3). There were also delays in the
Bank clearance of some of the trust funds. However, the available credit was fully disbursed prior to the
- 19-



closing date.
5.2 Factors generallv subject to gorernment control:
The Government, through the PCU, administered the overall credit, including disbursement,
repayment and reporting. There were no major issues arising in this area, although there was reported to be
some initial reluctance by the Ministry of Finance to afford adequate autonomy to PCU decisions. Auditing
and reporting were on time. The Government's contribution to the project was provided in the form of office
space and equipment. This support continued after project completion, along with interim payment of CLS
staff salaries.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The PCU coordinated loan administration, disbursement and repayment, and provided procurement
advice to the banks. It managed to maintain a high degree of autonomy, which was difficult in a politically
charged environment. Assistance to visiting missions was reported to be of high quality, with information
well prepared. Progress reporting was undertaken as planned, and annual external audits were satisfactory.
Overall, the PCU's performance was highly satisfactory
The five CLS staff gained relevant expertise in managing donor funds, and were able to dispense
early on with the services of the credit advisor, freeing up funds for the Credit Line. The CLS staff included
experienced ex-employees of local banks who were able to develop and maintain a good relationship with
the participating banks. A comprehensive, computer-based credit management information system was
developed to ensure the Credit Line was closely monitored.
The PCU's management of the technical assistance program, including bankers' training and
enterprise assistance, could not be as effective as that of the Credit Line due to the donor coordination
problem outside PCU control. In the case of the USAID program for strengthening the BARS, work was
initiated and continued independently of the project. In the case of SIDA support to enterprise assistance,
which got off to a rather poor start, the PCU acted successfully to get replacements for the initial
consulting team. Generally, technical assistance management problems were only marginally within the
PCU's control.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Issues arose in the financial arrangements for the project (see Section 4). The Credit Line was
funded only 50 percent against the PAD plan. The special circumstances of this project and the necessity of-
a combined donor effort resulted in a financing plan with the Bank as lead donor (alongside six other donor
agencies), while at the same time being minority financier (25 percent of initial planned cost). The only
other change in financial arrangements was one reallocation from technical assistance funds from the PCU
to the line of credit. This did not alter the financing plan significantly.
There was some concern expressed at the delays in clearance of some of the trust funds within the
Bank (e.g., in the case of the second grant of US$ 1.0 million from the Netherlands donor agency) between
the time of approval by the donors, and actual disbursement into the special account. In the case of the
Austrian grant, there was also some confusion over the terms under which it was made available, as these
differed from the other conditions that applied to the broader PCU line of credit (e.g., enterprise eligibility,
- 20 -



sub-loan limit). These problems were ultimately resolved.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainabilitvrating:
For this project, sustainability means the ability of beneficiary enterprises and institutions (e.g.,
banks) to continue to operate economically and efficiently in the production of goods and services over the
long tern, and at a level above what would have been achieved if the project had not gone ahead. As
detailed in section 4, there are a number of indications that the project produced a sustainable output.
Enterprise development. In terms of private enterprise development, out of the 111 sub-loans
disbursed, only four (less than 4 percent) were classified as sub-standard or lower by the lending banks.
Thus, nearly all firms were servicing their debt on time. Therefore, a high proportion of the firmns show
signs of being financially and commercially viable in the long tern. A large proportion of enterprises
surveyed intended to expand their capacity further, and were thinking of applying for follow-up loans. A
significant proportion would not have been able to invest at all without the availability of Credit Line
funds. The Credit Line was also reported to be leveraging co-financing, and investors were focusing on
fixed investment to build productive capacity, rather than on working capital financing. The PCU
calculated that production by enterprise increased by an average of four times. Employment created was
about 1,000, or nearly 10 per enterprise. If unregistered workers were included in the tally, the number of
jobs created would be significantly higher. Exports increased, or were expected to increase, in about half of
the financed enterprises. Access to credit improved in terms of funds available and in reduced transactions
costs.
Bankinz development. Over the period of the project (1998 to 2000), the portfolio quality of the
participating banks (e.g., loans past due, restructured and written off) improved overall. The connected
lending percentage fell, and the lending share of the private sector increased, although the proportion of
longer-term lending tended to fall. One bank, Kristal Bank, was an exception by increasing its long-term
lending, in part due to its high utilization of EPCP. The participating banks showed an overall increase in
capital, satisfactory (though declining) levels of capital adequacy, and positive net income, except for Banja
Luka Bank, which recorded a loss in the first half of 2000. Each bank strengthened loss identification and
provisioning, tightened up loan collection procedures, and introduced external IAS audit (as mandated by
1999 BARS regulations). Credit procedures were upgraded at all banks, and unsecured lending was
introduced through the credit line. The technical assistance to the banks provided (i) advisory assistance
(SWOT analysis and strategic planning), and (ii) training assistance in risk management, credit
management, and administration of credit departments. Both aspects of institution-building were considered
satisfactory by the recipient banks.
In terms of overall banking system development, the system is slowly improving but remains weak.
Minimum capital and capital adequacy requirements are being raised. However, earnings sources remain
few as the banks move away from foreign exchange activity, and provide little else to generate non-interest
income. Nearly half of the banks (especially in the state sector) recorded losses in 2000. (More positively,
the seven new private banks, which account for 15 percent of adjusted assets and 11 percent of loans
outstanding, performed relatively well in terms of net income, capital adequacy, and interest income as a
proportion of total.) The low profitability of the banking system would be even more pronounced if banks
established adequate provisions. Prudential regulations implemented by the Banking Agency, impending
increases in minimum capital requirements, and the possible restructuring of state-owned banks will cause
- 21 -



turbulence in the sector as banks are forced to merge or close. The Banking Agency, having built capacity
through training and advisory services (from USAID), is positioned to lead this process with continued
assistance over the medium term. The result will be a significantly smaller but stronger banking sector.
Summarv. The increase in enterprise output and employment as well as the institution building due
to the Credit are deemed sustainable. The lending capacity of the four participating banks and the
regulation and supervision capacity of the banking system as a whole were enhanced. These two
achievements suggest that the Credit's results may be sustainable, even though the banking system as a
whole did not improve sufficiently so as to produce a domestic bank in RS that could qualify as a
participating bank for a new Credit Line applying normal standards.
Taking all the above into account, the project's sustainability rating is 'likely' - L
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Sustaining the benefit of the expertise built up by the CLS in the management and
monitoring/evaluation of donor lines of credit would be desirable in the medium term, even if the CLS itself
has a limited life. As such, it is important to make effective arrangements to bridge any gaps between this
and possible successor projects, financed by the Bank and by donors. The staffing of the CLS has so far
been supported by donor funds. Key staff have already left the PCU, and arrangements are needed to
ensure that further valuable staff do not leave the agency and waste their experience, especially in financial
management. The PCU stated that the residual staff of the CLS are being funded in the short term by the
Government (consistent with the intentions of the project, which included a Govemment contribution).
However, steps are needed to ensure that funds are available in the medium term so that project
management capacity is sustained, including essential accounting expertise.
The major players in the project (the PCU, the participating banks, and the enterprises that were
visited) were of the view that at least one follow-up project would be a valuable further input into the
reconstruction of the economy. The key justification for a follow-up donor project should be its public
goods rationale. That is, if further significant institution-building benefits in the banking and enterprise
sector could be generated, that would not be generated or would be generated more slowly by the private
sector, then a follow-up project would be justifiable, especially considering the low marginal cost of using
the existing PCU and CLS resources and experience.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.] Lending:
7.1.1  Resource inputs by the Bank
The recorded resources spent by the Bank on the preparation and appraisal of the project, and
associated trust funds, were as follows.
- 22 -



Table 9: Bank preparation and suRervision resources
Resource Input                     Actual Cost $000
Lending preparation and appraisal   99.44
Supervision and ICR                128.25
Total                              227.69
Source: SAP system
Staff week input data for preparation are not available from the SAP system. Actual resources for
preparation based on task leader records amounted to about 21 staff weeks (SW). The costs as recorded,
especially on preparation, are relatively low compared with other comparable projects. This appears to
reflect the comparatively short time in which the project was prepared.
Initial project preparation was relatively intensive in some areas, especially the analysis of the
banks, which preceded the decision on which banks should be accredited under the credit line. Other areas
were less intensively prepared, including the institutional arrangements for technical assistance to
enterprises and banks, and the initial coordination of donor inputs. The original staff that appraised the
project were changed in mid-course. The new staff took over at the start of the supervision phase.
Overall, given the particular circumstances, the Bank's performance in preparation was
satisfactory.
7.1.2 Financial management, procurement, compliance with covenants and safeguard policies
The financial management of the project was satisfactory. The external audit reports for 1998 and
1999, carried out by PwC for all project-related accounts, were in both cases satisfactory and not subject to
qualification. They were each submitted within the requisite six months of the end of the fiscal year.
Procurement guidelines were provided by the PCU to the participating banks. Borrowing
enterprises did not express any difficulties regarding guidelines on competitive quotations for the supply of
equipment and materials, and generally regarded the rules as reasonable.
Covenants included timely extemal audits of all project accounts, semi-annual financial statements,
and annual external audits for the participating banks. These were complied with.
The project was rated environmental category 'C' based on the small-scale nature of the activities to
be financed. The procedure was for sub-loan agreements to specify required environmental data, and for
compliance to be monitored by the lending bank. All enterprises were subject to standard State
environmental regulation. Apart from the environmental area, there were no other safeguard policy
compliance issues relevant to this project.
The rating for this area is satisfactory - S
- 23 -



7.1.3  Institutional appraisal
The Bank's appraisal of the capacity and commitment of Government and public agencies is
detailed in sections 4 and 5. The capacity to implement the project and the commnitment to it were both
good. A previous project (the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina Emergency Recovery Credit) had
originally been intended to cover RS, but this had not proceeded. As a result, the expectations of the RS
authorities were that a project would be launched in RS. Thus, they were fully committed to working to
implement the project, as evidenced by their agreement to conduct diagnostic studies of all RS banks in
advance of project appraisal. Strong interest was also expressed by the banks and enterprises surveyed
during project identification.
The positive assessment of capacity and commitment at appraisal was born out by the effective
cooperation and successful management and implementation of the project by the PCU, the CLS, the
participating banks, and borrowing enterprises.
The overall rating for this area is satisfactory - S
7.1.4   Attention to key project design issues
The design of the project was discussed more fully in section 4.
Complexity. The design was relatively simple, in conforrnity with the requirements of an
emergency reconstruction program, and was based on the previous, successful emergency credit project for
the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. A number of options were rejected during preparation, as
reported in the PAD. For example, it was decided not to delay until the Bank and Enterprise Privatization
Credit was in place, nor to wait for prior institutional and regulatory reform. It was also decided that,
despite their fragility, the banks should assume the full credit risk (rather than have agency status) to
provide incentives for proper loan management and recovery. Only private (rather than socially owned)
enterprises were targeted, because a sufficient population of private enterprises existed. The options of
setting up a new financial institution and direct loans to banks were rejected. Altemative sub-loan terms
were also considered and rejected. Altemative sub-loan terms were also considered and rejected.
Risk assessment. The project risks defined initially were: (i) political instability (rated high); (ii)
insufficient donor support for technical assistance (rated substantial); (iii) economic instability
(substantial); and (iv) inadequate credit demand (low risk). During project implementation, risk ratings
were amended according to evolving circumstances. Risk factors for the success of project components
were not initially assessed, but added to the PSRs after December 1999. These related to the effective use
of sub-loan funds, strengthening of the private sector, level of credit discipline, BARS supervision capacity,
and institutional capacity of the banks. These were mainly seen as low risk. The risk assessments proved to
be accurate, given the satisfactory performance of the project on the ground that validated the lower risk
assessments. With hindsight, the difficulties of achieving adequate donor coordination were a risk that
should have been flagged.
Donor relations. The initial difficulties in coordination of the SIDA enterprise assistance and the
GTZ banking assistance were resolved successfully. The USAID program for assistance to the BARS went
ahead independently, and was relatively loosely linked to the Bank's project. In the case of Credit Line
co-financing, a difficulty occurred over a misunderstanding of the terms of the Austrian grant, and the task
leader worked to resolve this. On the whole, despite difficulties in the initial period, donor relations were
reasonable.
- 24 -



Adequacy of the Project Implementation Plan. The PIP elaborated the specific features of each
component, an implementation schedule, terms of reference, administrative responsibilities of the
implementing agents, performance indicators, reporting formats, operational guidelines for the PCU and
banks, a business plan format, and a sample loan agreement.
Adequacy of performance indicators. The indicators were developed prior to the general
requirement for quantified and monitorable indicators. They were divided into input, output and progress
indicators, and were not fully defined in terms of specific targets. The PSRs did not record performance
under the indicators.
Lending instrument. The investment loan instrument based on a line of credit with supporting
technical assistance was selected as a way of helping to restore production, while also encouraging
professional standards of loan appraisal and the start of general banking reform. The line of credit
instrument has been used fairly widely and relatively successfully in the ECA region. In a number of
projects, including in the Federation of Bosnia-Herzegovina, loan servicing has been sound. Credit lines can
be made to work well in recovery or early stage market development situations, despite their shaky record
in the past and in other parts of the Bank's portfolio.
Lessons of experience The PAD satisfactorily took into account lessons of experience, largely
from the 1996 Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina Emergency Recovery Credit (No. 024030).
The overall assessment of project design is satisfactory - S
7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1 Resources and timing of supervision
A large component of the supervision load consisted of appraisal and tumaround of sub-loan
applications, and the monitoring of accreditation compliance of the banks. This was carried out at
headquarters in Washington. The attention to rapid processing of sub-project proposals allowed an
otherwise fairly complex three-level approval/no objection procedure, which could otherwise have slowed
disbursement, to work smoothly, especially when combined with careful screening of sub-loans by the
banks and CLS.
The project received three formal supervision missions over two years prior to closure, somewhat
less than the norm. One scheduled mission (December 1999) had to be canceled. The first supervision
mission (October 1998) took place after the change in project management staff. During that supervision
mission, the design of the Credit Line was examined in detail, and a series of recommendations were made
for changes to open up the eligibility criteria and credit procedures, including changes in the term of
sub-loans and adjustment in sub-sector coverage. However, these changes were not agreed within the Bank,
because it was considered that the project had not had enough time to work. The first supervision mission
also helped to resolve poor initial performance of the enterprise technical assistance component, agreeing to
replace the consultants, and accepted the PCU's request to end outside consultant assistance to the PCU.
Performance indicators were not assessed during supervision missions because the original
indicators were not fully developed in quantitative terms, and the task manager did not regard them as
usable criteria. Apart from the first one, which was relatively detailed, the PSRs were fairly brief.
- 25 -



The Government stated that the supervision effort of the Bank, assisted by very high quality
PCU/CLS implementation staff, was effective and helpful. The short duration of the project meant that a
mid-term review was not necessary. An implementation review was conducted by GTZ shortly before the
completion of the project. It found good indications that the enterprise finance component, a mobilizing
effect on investment, and had filled a significant gap in financing. Its findings have been reflected in section
4.
7.3 Overall Bank peiyjrmance:
On the basis of the above, balancing strong inputs with a few lapses, the rating for overall Bank
preparation and supervision is satisfactory - S
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The level of borrower commitment to preparation was high. Conducting diagnostic reviews of all
the banks during project preparation reflected this commitment. The cooperation of the Government and
PCU with Bank missions was considered good, especially considering the difficult post-recovery
environment.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The performance of the Government was satisfactory. Initial cooperation was very good because
the Government, both of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and of Republika Sipska, had been
anticipating the implementation of a Credit Line, which they regarded as an important contribution to
economic reconstruction. After some initial hesitation, the RS Government allowed the PCU autonomy in
approvals. Some concern was expressed with the failure to provide the initially planned financing, and with
some of the donor coordination difficulties, indicating Government commitment to and concern for the
project's success.
7.6 Implementing lgency:
The supervision missions reported that the PCU, with the help of the CLS, was very well prepared
and able to provide useful and full information. The PCU successfully maintained its autonomy in
processing applications (after some initial outside pressures). The quarterly reporting requirements of the
project were met by the PCU on time. Annual external audit reports were not subject to any qualifications,
and were arranged in a timely manner. CLS screening of sub-loans and credit management systems were of
high quality. On the basis of these assessments, the overall performance of the PCU was outstanding.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
On the basis of the above, borrower performance is assessed as highly satisfactory - HS
8. Lessons Learned
The lessons to be learned from this project in terms of design are those applicable to emergency
projects, which are expected to be fast-disbursing, and relatively light in the area of long-term institution
building.
- 26 -



The Credit Line was successful in terms of (i) disbursement and repayment, (ii) apparent real
impact on the 107 enterprises assisted, and (iii) strengthening the credit management capacity of the banks.
An important implication of this achievement is that, in conditions of reconstruction or early-stage market
development, the economic return to a Credit Line project can be high. An important positive lesson of the
Credit Line design, even in an 'emergency' situation, was the success of allowing the participating banks to
take the credit risk rather than to act on an agency basis (contrary to the arrangement in a parallel donor
credit line). This provided an incentive to the banks to more rapidly upgrade their credit management
performance, despite the difficult environment.
The effectiveness of the project also stemmed from close Bank supervision. While on-site
supervision from Bank staff was less than usual, supervision from Washington in the form of review and
turnaround of sub-loan applications, and monitoring of bank accreditation compliance, was continuous.
This allowed the relatively complex approval procedure, which might otherwise have slowed disbursement,
to work smoothly. Close supervision was complemented by good PCU management. In an emergency
project where institutions are not yet in place, this points to the importance of effective management on the
ground.
Problems of the donor funding shortfall for the Credit Line and general. donor coordination became
more acute because the Bank was the minority financier. While there was a justification for minority
financing, the lesson may be that the Bank should be cautious about minority financing when the Bank is
the lead donor agency, unless resources are available for active donor coordination. One result of the
difficult coordination task was that trust fund clearance within the Bank was also delayed. This reflected a
lack of resources for implementing fairly complex co-financing arrangements.
The best design for a non-emergency project might differ from the design of this project in a
number of areas:
-for the CL: In this project, strong PCU management retained adequate independence. In more
general cases, the CLS might require greater institutional autonomy so as to reduce the potential risk of
political interference in the processing of sub-loans. Lending would generally not be through majority
state-owned banks as internediaries, bank accreditation standards could be tighter, and sub-loan approval
levels could be simplified to include the use of free limits for decentralized loan approval. The sub-sectors
targeted may be broader, and start-up enterprises could be made eligible. Size, terms and conditions of
sub-loans might be amended to allow larger loans of a longer maturity, consistent with the fixed investment
horizon. These modifications have been incorporated in the design of the proposed follow-up PSD project.
-for the TA support: Delivery of assistance might be more cost-effective through a more
sustainable institutional structure, which would incorporate a cost-recovery focus, especially in the case of
enterprise support. Several types of infrastructure have been employed in other projects in the region,
including enterprise support facilities and market development facilities (such as matching grant schemes).
The proposed follow-up Credit Line project has already addressed many of the above issues, in
particular the changes to the operational procedures of the credit line.
- 27 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agencv:
The Government's completion report is summarized below. The report's principal conclusions are that
the Credit Line had a successful disbursement and repayment record and a valuable institution building
impact, in addition to its impact on investment, output and employment. The technical assistance
components were overall successful, after some start-up difficulties caused partly by inadequate donor
coordination. The report strongly supports a follow-up project. The original full report is in the files. The
report of the CLS, which is substantially the same as the Government's report, is also in the project files.
Note: this report has been left in principle in the form in which it was provided to the Bank but
descriptive sections have been omitted where these simply repeated the content of the main text, and a number of
editing amendments have been made by the Bank to clarify language and meaning where necessary.
GOVERNMENT OF REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT - EMERGENCY PILOT CREDIT PROJECT
1. PROJECT BACKGROUND
Two years after the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement and peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
rehabilitation of industry still depended on international support. In the BiH Federation, the support of
various donors and international financial institutions was still very significant because the industry of
Republika Srpska remained in need of rehabilitation from war damage and the influence of sanctions. The
project, without waiting for system reforms and privatization, was supposed to inject capital urgently into
the private sector of Republika Srpska, with the aim of re-starting production and creating new
employment.
The dominant problems in RS are still post-war rehabilitation, including that of basic
infrastructure and industry. When we also add to this the period of transition from the socialist to the
capitalist-private system of ownership (e.g., privatization of the majority of publicly-owned enterprises),
then there are obvious limitations and constraints on the fast rehabilitation of industry and economy as a
whole for all RS citizens. Low GDP, low average monthly income at all levels, weak consumption, limited
access to foreign markets, and many other difficult circumstances were basic to the framework within
which the project was implemented.
1.2. Private sector
Industry is made up of about 1,200 registered enterprises in public ownership, 19,000 small and
medium private enterprises, and 28,000 individual craft workshops, as well as a large number of farm
households and small individual agriculture producers. The private sector will be the basis of the future
system.
1.3. Banking system
In Republika Srpska presently, there exist 18 banks. Eleven of them are majority state-owned, and
they are at different phases of the privatization process. The seven private banks are very small.
- 28 -



State-owned banks are of various sizes, and so far dominate the banking system of Republika Srpska, but
all of them are going through a privatization process.
The strategic goal of restructuring of the banking system of Republika Srpska is creation of a
private, independent, commercially oriented, competitive banking system, capable of providing funds either
from domestic or from foreign sources. The largest and the most difficult task is to create and regain
confidence in the banking system, which is possible only in the longer term if banks have respectable and
confident owners and professional management, and if they are able to provide correct and transparent
financial information.
2. GOALS, COMPONENTS AND DESIGN OF THE PROJECT
2.1 Basic goals of the project were:
*     to initiate and expand activities of private production enterprises in Republika Srpska, to increase
production and employment, and to decrease imports.
*      to increase credit management capacity and expertise in evaluation of credit risks in the
commercial banks.
*     for the enterprises: to increase production, employment, and profit, facilitating access to credit.
*     for the banks: to decrease credit risk; and to increase interest income.
2.2 Initial components:
--     Credit Line - 130 credits to small and medium enterprises in production, light industry and
processing of agriculture products. Credits were planned to be granted to support enterprises that had
previous experience in production. Upon request of the Austrian Government, one of the donors from the
project, start-up enterprises were partly supported as well.
Training of banks - training for about 20 employees of banks. This component was carried out
by the agency GTZ, financed by the German Government.
Support of enterprises - business advice for about 200 private enterprises applying for credits.
*     Supervision of banks - training and equipment for employees of the Banking Agency.
*     Implementation Support - technical assistance, operational costs and equipment for the PCU.
2.3. Credit Approval procedures
Participating banks would identify potential enterprises from a target group that would fulfill in
advance prescribed criteria. Before proposal to the bank's credit board, the credit officer would carry out
the analysis of business plans and financial projections, as well as estimate collateral cover, and make a
visit to the enterprise. On the basis of this analysis, the credit officer in the bank would make a proposal to
the credit board.
The credit proposals approved at credit boards of commercial banks would be submitted to the
PCU Credit Line Section, where the credit application had to pass through the same evaluation procedure
by a credit officer, including a visit to the enterprise. The final proposal for approval of the credit would be
made by the Credit Board of the PCU Credit Line Section.
Management of project implementation was carried out by the director of the PCU, and all credit
- 29 -



proposals with complete documentation were sent to the World Bank for approval of the task manager,
who gave a 'No Objection'. Upon receiving written confirmation that the World Bank did not have any
objection to the proposed application, the PCU entered into individual contracts with the banks for each
approved credit.
After signing of the contract, funds were approved for the banks, in two tranches, upon request.
Justification of disbursement of funds and withdrawal of new funds from the project account were
made at regular intervals, on the basis of standard procedure through a Statement of Expenditure (SOE).
3. ACCOMPLISHMENT OF GOALS AND RESULTS
It is possible to evaluate the results using various indicators, such as the total amount and number
of approved sub-loans, the level of delinquency of credit repayment by banks and enterprises, the number
of new jobs, the level of investment, the number of seminars and training provided, as well as other specific
measures. Alternatively, and significantly more difficult but very instructive, one could evaluate the
development of private entrepreneurship, new attitudes to business and the market economy, cooperation
with the banks as partners, and the development of the banks' expertise in the preparation of business plans
and other techniques.
3.1. Goal 1: Initiating of private sector activities
The Project goal was, through approving 130 loans, to finance SMEs' working capital,
procurement of equipment, and plant rehabilitation. According to the following indicators, that goal has
been accomplished, taking into account that only 50 percent of planned funds were approved.
*      Increase of production. In over one hundred enterprises, fresh capital invested in the procurement
of new equipment and in working capital assisted a revival of production. In some cases, production is ten
tirnes higher than before, and the average increase in production is four times the level at the start of the
project.
*     Increase of number of employed. According to reports available to the Credit Line Section, the
total employment impact of the line of credit is over 1,000 new jobs. The average cost of a newly created
job was DEM 15,000. However, it should be noted that the number of newly created jobs is actually
significantly higher, because many enterprises, to avoid taxes, do not register new employees, while the
employees themselves are prepared to work unregistered if in that way they can increase their income.
Private enterprises are also employing workers that are still registered with state-owned enterprises.
*     Increase of exports. About half of the approved sub-loans have led to increased exports, mostly
to the Balkan region, but also to the European Union in the case of about 20 percent, which were mostly
wood products.
*      Increase of income and profitability of enterprises. Through better workflow, improved
monitoring of the work of the enterprise, and improved planning of income and expenditures, enterprises
have improved capacity utilization, leading to increased net income and profitability.
*      Increase of capital of enterprises. For the enterprises to be eligible, registered equity to debt
ratios were set at a minimum of 30 percent. In this way, the required working capital was covered. The
- 30 -



requirement that enterprises register their capital also led to more realistic (higher) valuations of capital
(which in turn led to a more realistic valuation of tax liabilities).
*      Facilitating of approach to the credit. The Credit Line has facilitated access to capital for
enterprises in Republika Srpska. Banks in Republika Srpska were not previously able to support the
long-term development of industry, and most were granting credits on a three-month term, with very high
interest rates, of up to 3 percent per month. The Credit Line provided three-year terms and significantly
influenced a general decline in interest rates, which have fallen to about 1 percent per month. Agroprom
bank in 1999 loaned one million DEM from its own funds under identical conditions to the Credit Line.
3.2.    Goal 2: Support to banks
The aim was to increase the level of activity of banks that otherwise had insufficient resources to
finance the private sector. Since the banks received financing which they on-lent according to eligibility
guidelines, they were able to avoid allocation problems and to concentrate on the quality of projects and the
evaluation of clients. In this way, and with the support of foreign consultants, the risk of making incorrect
investment decisions was reduced. The results are as follows:
*      I)ncrease in quantity and quality of credit portfolios. For the above mentioned reasons (i.e.,
focusing on the evaluation of the client and sub-project, and on the quality of collateral pledged), the
quality and quantity of the banks' credit portfolios increased.
*      Improvement of credit management. Although bank credit officers earlier attended seminars and
training courses, by working with this credit line they, for the first time, had the opportunity and obligation
to apply in practice the new standards in credit evaluation. Banks learned that they should pay special
attention in evaluations to credit risk; the financial status of the enterprise; repayment capability;
monitoring of utilization of funds; adequate credit documentation; systems and instrunents for collecting
due credit installments; and standard credit classifications. An indication of the impact of this credit line
lies is in the fact that banks started to approve credits from their own funds using the same forms of credit
application and the same methodology for credit evaluation, monitoring, and recording.
-      Increase of income from interest, reserves and capital of banks. In the period of implementation
of this credit line, a little less than 18 months, banks earned income from the interest margin of DEM
745.000. Three participating banks increased their net capital; the exception was Banjaluka bank, where
initial capital of DEM 50 million decreased to DEM 35 million.
*      Improvement of mechanisms for identification of credit losses. Unfortunately, banks still have
not completely worked out procedures and mechanisms for early discovery of problem investments and
support to problem borrowers. The legal system also remains very slow and inefficient and does not give
the opportunity to banks for fast and effective recovery. Court procedures usually last several years and
debtors receive favorable treatment in relation to creditors. Recovery mechanisms need further
development.
- 31 -



4.    RESULTS BY COMPONENT
4.1.   The Credit Line
Credits were approved through four commercial banks in Republika Srpska. In the period from
the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement until mid 2000, this was the only credit line that supported
development of production in the Republic as a whole. (The USAID credit line applied mostly to the
western part of Republika Srpska, and the KFW credit had even more geographical limitations.) The plan
for this component was to provide US$16 million to finance 130 sub-loans to production enterprises.
Unfortunately, only about 50 percent of the planned financing became available.
The banks
The four commercial banks that were identified for participation were: Agroprom bank Banja
Luka, Banjaluka bank Banja Luka, Kristal bank Banja Luka, and Semberska bank Bijeljina.
The decision on the selection of participating banks, besides capital, expertise and equipment, was
influenced by the extent of the branch network, which was supposed to cover all areas of Republika
Srpska, to allow equal access. In addition to having a license, it was expected that participating banks
should have positive net capital after financial restructuring and write-off of bad loans. All participating
banks fulfilled this condition at the end of the Project, three doubling their net capital, while Banjaluka
bank capital decreased from DEM 50 million to DEM 35 million.
Banks identified enterprises on the basis of eligibility conditions. If the conditions were not
fulfilled, then the CLS advised the applicant not to waste time and resources on completing an application.
The CLS received from the banks in total 133 credit applications that had passed through bank credit
boards. Out of this number, the CLS Credit Board approved 107 applications in the amount DEM
14,985,358, with 25 rejected. The final proposal for credit approval was made by the CLS Credit Board.
All credit proposals with complete documentation were sent to the World Bank for approval, to Ms. Sonja
Brajovic-Bratanovic - the task manager, who gave a 'no objection'. The World Bank did not reject any
proposal of the CLS Credit Board. The average credit amount was DEM 133,798.
The credit procedure appeared very complicated and lengthy, but with good cooperation between
the CLS and Ms. Brajovic-Bratanovic, the procedure was accelerated to the maximum, so that no
enterprise had to wait for a decision longer than one month. The credit amount was paid in two tranches
according to the instructions to the banks. The Credit fund was utilized 100 percent in a shorter time period
than originally planned.
Multi-layer control and evaluation of enterprises prior to approval of credits resulted in a decrease
of credit risk. Out of 107 approved credits, only four enterprises have had repayment problems, 3.7
percent, which is a very small percentage even for developed banking systems. The method of work itself
had an educational character for owners and management of enterprises, because some of them met for the
first time the requirement for preparation of business plans and financial projections and their meaning.
This provided to them a clearer picture of how realistic their plans were, and taught them how to calculate
debt service cover.
- 32 -



Credit Line coverage by region and industry branch
We underline the importance of this credit line because it supported the development of almost all
municipalities of the Republic within the set eligibility criteria. 27 municipalities received credits.
The Credit Line covered the most important economic branches in Republika Srpska. This
includes wood processing, parquet, furniture, light industry with textile and leather, construction materials,
doors and windows, chemicals and detergents, plastic and glass production. The Credit Line also supported
production and processing of food, including the fattening of calves and pigs, chickens, egg production,
meat processing, dairies, and mushroom and herb farming.
4.2    Banks' staff training
GTZ, the German Association for Technical Cooperation, implemented this part of the Project in
cooperation with BANKAKADEMIE e.V. As GTZ assumed the whole financing of this project
component, accurate data on total costs are not known. The team leader was Ms. Ulla Tornross. The
project duration was 01.10.98 -30.09.00, with occasional interruptions. The basic goal of this component
was expert support and additional training at the workplace for commercial banks and project participants,
especially in the field of credit management and evaluation of risk, as well as development of business
strategies.
After some initial problems, the training was carried out both at the workplace in the banks and
through short seminars for several banks. The production of a credit manual was one of the achievements
of the training process. According to the information from the banks, this component partly accomplished
its goals. According to the GTZ report, the following results were accomplished:
-      SWOT analysis carried out for four banks
-     Introduction of strategic plans and development activities
-     Determining training needs and implementation of training
-     Development of risk management and risk adjustment
Development of necessary credit procedures and training of staff in their utilization
-     Implementation of a professional approach to lending in the private sector
4.3.   Support to the enterprises
Boliden Contech, a Swedish enterprise engaged by SIDA, was responsible for the component of
support to enterprises. The primary goal was the preparation of business plans and strategies, which would
improve the quality of credit applications, as well as the actual submission of credit applications. The
Team Leader was Mr. Leif Engstrem. Project duration was from 23. 06. 1998 - 31.12.1999.
The first experts from Boliden Contech did not show a willingness to cooperate. At the request of
the PCU, Boliden Contech withdrew the two consultants after a year, and engaged two new consultants.
Upon arrival of the new consultants, this component became much more active and, with the Association of
Private Entrepreneurs of Republika Srpska, headed by Mr. Slavko Prosan, held numerous seminars in all
areas of Republika Srpska, in which 120 owners of private enterprises participated.
The Association of Private Entrepreneurs, the enterprises, and the commercial banks for whom the
seminars were also organized rated the seminars as excellent. As a result of the work of the two
- 33 -



consultants, the Ministry of Industry sent a request to the Swedish Government to extend their period of
engagement.
4.4.   Supervision of the banks
This Project component was started before the Bank's project itself, supported by USAID. Under
the USAID project, a Law was adopted according to which the commercial banks come under the
supervision of the Banking Agency. After the BARS management was appointed, initial activities were to
establish the organization of the BARS. A central part of BARS business was control of the work of the
banks, either through reporting or direct control.
4.5.   Support to implementation
The World Bank decided during preparation of the project that it would be most effective for the
project to be managed by the Project Coordination Unit, because of previous good results and good finance
and procurement capacity. The RS Government accepted this proposal and authorized the PCU Director to
form the department, to select the staff, and to assign a project manager. The basic task of the Credit Line
Section of the PCU was to examine credit applications submitted by participating banks, approve credits
through the CLS credit board, monitor the credit repayment by participating banks, and to monitor credit
repayment to the participating banks.
Careful selection of staff resulted in a very high quality of work, including timely implementation,
which enabled significant savings in operational costs. The team members were:
PCU Director               Ranko Labovic
Head of Department:        Gordana Dubinovic,
Credit Officers:    Eegar Stanka, Popovic Saga
Accountant:                Drena Stankovic
PES collaboration:         Dalibor Drlja&ac
Good cooperation with commercial banks was accomplished. The department was equipped with
necessary equipment (e.g., computers, furniture), and PCU vehicles were available when needed. Boliden
Contech imported three vehicles, which were used in the work of the local and foreign consultants. After
the completion of the activities of the foreign consultants, the vehicles were sent back to Sweden. A large
part of the operational costs of the CLS was financed from the Swedish Grant.
5.     SUSTAINABILITY OF THE PROJECT
The current situation in Republika Srpska justifies a follow-up project with similar or identical
goals and activities.
The transition of the state-owned enterprises to the private sector, and the development of private
enterprise in general, with lack of adequate resources in the banks, is the basic reason why the RS
Government wishes to continue the project using both recycled resources from repayments under the initial
project, and new funds sources.
A new project should include a larger number of banks, allowing them to learn the techniques of
- 34 -



project preparation, credit monitoring and risk assessment, while at the same time creating competition
between banks that should result in better banking services, a decrease of interest rates, and higher
efficiency of the banks in general. The use of a World Bank Credit would be the most rational and the most
cost effective, while carrying the lowest risk for the Government, because the revolving fund can be used to
service the debt to the World Bank.
The PCU is continuing with the work of the project, and it has enough staff and is organizationally
ready for new activities. Some of the experts who worked on implementation of the first project have found
new jobs, but that is not a constraint on further activities.
An agreement by the World Bank to continue with a new project would provide the necessary
signal to continue work and to use the results and experience from the first project. A follow-up would be
practically a continuation of the activities of the first credit project.
6.  COOPERATION WITH WORLD BANKS AND DONORS
Identification and preparation of the project were carried out by World Bank experts, in
cooperation with local experts. The team leader of the World Bank in initiating the project was Mr.
Michael Koch. A major part of project preparation in the field was carried out by experts from the PCU,
headed by Mr. Labovic. As already stated, the PCU was appointed to implement the project, and
established a special department for that purpose.
During the implementation of the project, the World Bank appointed a new Task Manager, Ms.
Sonja Brajovic-Bratanovic. She cooperated very well with the PCU/CLS, and on her first visit to the
project area she concluded that the conditions under which the credits were approved should be extended
through amending the operating guidelines. Ms. Brajovic came on mission from time to time and regularly
communicated with the PCU through e-mail. She very efficiently responded to all queries and requests, and
the credit applications were approved in a timely manner. The RS Government was able to ensure efficient
implementation of the project through the PCU, and there were no special problems and delays.
The main problem faced was as a result of lack of adequate cooperation between the World Bank
and the donors. The financing targets established at preparation were met by inadequate supporting donor
funds, and the World Bank did very little to complement the Credit Line with grant funds. The negative
result was that only 50 percent of the planned Credit Line amount was realized. Considering that
disbursement of those grant funds that did become available was delayed by a year from reception to
effectiveness because of certain procedural problems in the Bank itself, we must unfortunately state that the
support of the World Bank in this field was inadequate. Also, World Bank cooperation with donors and
other partners like GTZ, SIDA - Boliden, and USAID was unsatisfactory, and it was often not clear from
the terns of reference on what basis the partners were involved. Coordination by the World Bank in this
area was insufficient.
7.    LESSONS LEARNED
Considering that the effect of the Project on private entrepreneurs, local banks and on society as a
whole was extremely positive, we can conclude that the experiences from this project were positive as well.
This was a well-prepared, formulated and implemented project and as such was certain to succeed,
- 35 -



and it has been a very good experience for future projects because there have been contrary experiences
with other projects. It showed that there are a significant number of activities in RS that have economic
justification. Also, the confidence and seriousness of approach, especially through projects supported by
the World Bank, helps to exclude insufficiently defined project ideas. We think that the influence that the
World Bank has in this area should be further used to maximize utilization of all funding sources.
The assessment of the appropriate size of sub-loans and the interest rates was very helpful. Even if
there were requirements for larger sub-loan amounts, there is a justification made for retaining these
guidelines, subject to review where particular larger projects are economically justified. There were a lot of
requests for longer repayment and grace periods. This is obviously justified as it would give the project
wider coverage, while individual decisions would depend on the purpose and type of investment.
Credit risk was assumed by the commercial banks, and accordingly the banks made diligent efforts
to analyze projects and collateral cover. Nevertheless, considering the number of rejected applications, it is
necessary to work further with the banks' credit officers.
The level of control that the PCU had over the banks to enforce adherence to project guidelines is
completely justified and should be retained. However, there is no need for detailed analysis of credit
applications in the PCU.
A large number of partners including bank employees, private entrepreneurs and PCU staff were
also educated by the project. Experience shows that this type of education must be on a voluntary basis,
because otherwise impact is weak, especially in the case of bank officers. The programs of training and
technical assistance should be prepared in much more detail than was the case in this project. This can be
confinned if we look back at the period of acclimatization of GTZ and Boliden, when a lot of time was lost
because their experts were not prepared to work in RS.
In the final analysis, the Emergency Pilot Credit Project was and remains a very successful project
and most of the results and experiences from that project are very positive.
(b) Cofinanciers:
The completion report of SIDA is in the project files.
The completion report of GTZ is in the project files.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
NGOs were not directly involved in the project. The private sector is represented through the
financed enterprises, which are reported on in the text.
10. Additional Information
Not applicable
- 36 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
indloatox1Mabtx                    Procted In last PSR                  ActuaLatest Estimate
Increased enterprise output, new                                           Production is estimated to have increased on
employment and higher profits of benefiting                                average 300 percent (i.e. to a level four times
RS businesses.                                                             that prior to receipt of loans, with a maximum
of ten times) accompanied by higher profits.
Increased access to term loans as measured                                 Bank reports show an increase in average
by an increase in bank loans over 3 months'                                loan maturity in one bank (Kristal) but a
maturity in the RS economy.                                                decline in the others reporting.
Lower average loan delnquencies in                                          All reporting banks showed a significant
participating RS banks; higher interest                                    decline in non-performing loan percentage.
income in these banks.                                                      But interest income as a percent of total
Output indicators: # of RS bank credit                                     income declined.
officers trained; # of RS banking agency staff                              30 credit officers were trained in the
trained.                                                                    reporting banks.
About 12 (50 percent) BARS staff were
trained
Prudential reporting functional.                                           Prudential reporting and on-site supervision
On-site supervision being conducted.                                       considerably improved. Full on-site
Improved safety of the banking system.                                     examinations conducted and operational
manuals produced.
Number of enterprises that have received                                   See output indicators
TA.
Output Indicators:
IndicatedMatttx                    Projeced In lm PSR                    ActalLatest Estimate
130 subloans in first cycle                                                111 sub-oans were disbursed by closing
date (from a reduced credit amount)
1500 new jobs in first cycle ($11,000                                      Over 1,000 registered new jobs (plus
investment cost per job)                                                   additional unregistered jobs) at DEM 15,000
per registered job (approx US$ 7,000)
4 RS bank trained in riskloan management                                   Four banks (Kristal, Banja Luka, Semberska,
and Agroprom) received training in loan and
risk management.
200 RS firms assisted in credit applications                                120 firms attended training courses, plus
other firms were assisted outside formal
training.
RS banking supervision agency                                              BARS received technical assistance to
strengthened                                                               strengthen supervision, application of
regulations and accounting framework, and
risk management capacity
End of project
- 37 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
7                         4~~~~~~~pprati~a  Acualatest   Percentage of
Estimte    Estimte*M      Apraisa
ProF9jet 0XiBi Cos By ComponentUS$ million             U$ mrllio;; n
Line of Credit                                         16.00            7.87              49
Bankers Training                                        1.00            1.00             100
Enterprise Support                                      1.00            1.00             100
Banking supervision                                     1.00            1.00             100
Implementation support (PCU)                            1.00            0.19              19
Total Baseline Cost                                    20.00           11.06
Physical Contingencies                                 0.00            0.00               0
Price Contingencies                                    0.00            0.00               0
Total Project Costs              20.00            11.06
Total Financing Required               20.00            11.06
Source PCU
- 38 -



Project Costs by Expenditure Category and Procurement Method (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method/ Appraisal Estimate   Procurement Method/ Actual Latest Estimate
Expenditure Category        Proc met (WB-ffn)    NBF      Total    Proc met (WB-fin)      N          Total
ICB      Other       B       Cost      ICB       Other        BF       Cost
Sub-loans                             4500.0   11500.0  16000.0               4907.0    2960.0      7867.0
Goods                                                                           0.0                  0.0
Office equipment and supplies          62.0       0.0      62.0                16.0       0.0        16.0
Services                                                                        0.0                  0.0
Technical Assistance to PCU            250.0    425.0    675.0                  0.0                   0.0
External Project audits                40.0                40.0                26.0                  26.0
Other Technical Assistance                      3000.0   3000.0                 0.0      3000.0     3000.0
Miscellaneous                                                                   0.0                  0.0
Incr. Operational Cost                 148.0     22.0      170.0               51.0       103.0      154.0
Reserve funds for PCU Cost                       53.0      53.0                 0.0                  0.0
Total                        0.0      5,000.0  15,000.0  20,000.0    0.0      5,000.0    6,063.0    11,063.0
Source PCU/CLS
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equi alent)
I______Component                         Est.ia                 AcUaVLateSt Estmate _        Percentage of Appraisal
.________         _       ._          _.__ C_F._    Bank                Govt.      CoP.    Bank   Govt   CopF.
Line of Credit              4.50                   11.50      4.91        0.00       2.96      109.1           25.7
Bankers Training            0.00                   1.00       0.00        0.00       1.00      0.0             100.0
Enterprise Support          0.00        0.00       1.00       0.00        0.00       1.00      0.0      0.0   100.0
Banking supervision         0.00        0.00       1.00       0.00        0.00       1.00      0.0     0.0    100.0
Implementation (PCU)        0.50        0.20       0.30       0.09        0.00       0.10      18.0    0.0    33.3
TOTAL                       5.00        0.20      14.80       5.00        0.00       6.06     100.0   0.0    40.9
- 39 -



- 40 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
The PAD stated that an economic analysis was inapplicable and focused on financial returns. The
NPV was not calculated since there were too many unknowns. However, an attempt was made to carry out
a cost-benefit analysis based on 11 sample projects from 23 enterprises visited during project preparation.
The study found that projected average debt service coverage ratio for all 11 projects was well above the
minimum required to ensure financial viability, ranging from 1.3 to 2.5.
While the study determined that the credit could be financially viable, the unknowns involved called
for designing the project to ensure cost-effectiveness. The relatively stringent controls over approvals and
the screening of proposals ensured, as far as possible, viable projects and a very good loan repayment rate.
The technical assistance components, while not designed for sustainability, proved to be effective for this
project. Accordingly, it is highly probable that if an ex-post return were to be calculated, it would show a
satisfactory NPV.
The economic viability of the enterprises financed is likely to have been satisfactory. The six
enterprises investigated for this report (table 4) all appeared to be either actually or potentially
economically viable (including the one that failed due to poor management). The grounds for this assertion
are that the enterprises were producing domestic resource-based goods, or substituting for imports, within a
regime in which the exchange rate was determined through a currency board, preventing distortionary
macro policies such as rate overvaluation. In addition, trade-related tariffs and subsidy protection are
relatively low. In some cases, the problem was reverse protection, e.g. foreign dumping of eggs in 1999,
although this was prevented by imposition of a tariff in 2000. All enterprises financed were small to
medium scale, and privately owned. Two thirds were in domestic resource-based agribusiness and wood
products, those most likely to be economically viable in the conditions of the RS/Bosnian economy.
Given the apparently successful repayment record of 96 percent of enterprises, it is reasonable to
conclude that the project produced a satisfactory financial return, and that in a reasonably liberal trade and
macro policy regime this would translate into a satisfactory economic return.
- 41 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Prject Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I EMS, etc.)     Implementation   Development
Month/Year   Count           -Specialty                       Progress        Objective
Identification/Preparation
I   Economist
I   Operations Assistant
I   Consultant
1   Economist
I   Operations Assistant
I   Consultant
Appraisal/Negotiation
10/97                       2   Economist                                            s
I   Operations Assistant
3/98                        1   Economist                                            S
I   Lawyer
2   Others (CU, FMS etc)
Supervision
10/98                       1   Economist                            S               S
4/99                         1   Economist                           S               S
I   Operations assistant
2/00                         1   Economist                           S               S
ICR
12/00                       1    Economist                           S               S
(b) Staffa
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                 14                        65.20
plus support
Appraisal/Negotiation                       7                        34.24
plus support
Supervision                                24                       128.25
(est)
ICR                                         6                         25.0
Total                                      51                       252.69
- 42 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantia], M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA-Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                            O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
Ii Sector Policies                          OH  * SUOM  O N  O NA
O Physical                                  * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Financial                                 O H  * SU O  M  O N  O NA
I] Institutional Development                0 H  * SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
OE nvironmental                             O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                  0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
O Gender                             C H  O) SU C M  O N  * NA
O Other (Please specifv)                 H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
O Private sector development                0 H  C) SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management                  0 H  C) SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
OOther (Please specif)                      O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Despite the rating of poverty reduction as NA, the project is in fact likely to have had a beneficial
impact on poverty. However, this was not an explicit objective and therefore is not subject to the same
standard of assessment. The case is similar also with environmental objectives.
-43 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6. 1 Bank perfornance                                Rating
Lending                                            *HSOS  OU  OHU
Supervision                                        OHS *S   OU  OHU
<1 Overall                                           OHS OS   O  U  Q HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
b Preparation                                        OHS OS   O u   O HU
r, Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
El Implementation agency performance                 O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
r Overall                                            OHS OS   O u  0 HU
- 44 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Documents available in the file:
Project Appraisal Document (PAD)
PAD for Second Private Sector Development Project (RS)
Implementation review memo (Hans Shrader)
Supervision aide-memoires
Supervision mission back to office reports
Project Status Reports
Disbursement reports
Evaluation report (Abedaa Addai - April 2000)
Banking Supervision Agency annual reports
Government completion report
CLS completion report
SIDA assistance completion report
GTZ assistance final report
-45 -



