Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3070 BOS
Development Credit Agreement
(Emergency Pilot Credit Project)
between
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated as of June 11, 1998  
CREDIT NUMBER 3070 BOS
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated as of June 11, 1998, between BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Republika Srpska (RS) with the 
Borrower’s assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to the RS the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and RS;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
"Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been 
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period of 
thirty 
(30) days, or (b) at any time, the Association determines, after 
consultation 
with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will not be 
required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, or (c) 
at any time, the Association determines, with respect to 
any contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or 
fraudulent practices 
were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of 
a beneficiary of the 
Credit during the procurement or the execution of such 
contract, without 
the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the 
Association to remedy the situation, and establishes the 
amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have 
been eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any 
time, the 
Association determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures  set forth or 
referred to in the Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of  expenditures in 
respect of such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (e) after the 
Closing Date, 
an amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit 
Account, the 
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right 
of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the 
giving 
of such notice, such amount of the Credit shall be canceled."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Beneficiary" means any eligible small- and medium-sized private 
enterprise duly established and operating under the laws of the Borrower to which a 
PFI (defined hereafter) proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan (defined hereafter);
(b)
"Benefiting Municipalities" means a municipality of RS other than Brcko;
(c)
"Deutsche Mark" and "DEM" each means the lawful currency of the Federal 
Republic of Germany;
(d)
"Operational Guidelines" means the guidelines to be adopted by the PCU 
pursuant to Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement, setting out the operational and 
administrative procedures for PFIs, in respect of the preparation, approval, 
processing, financing, implementation and supervision of Sub-loans;
(e)
"Participating Financial Institution" or "PFI" means Banjaluka Banka, 
Cristal Banka, Semberska Banka, Agroprom Banka and any bank agreed between RS and the 
Association to participate in the Project on the basis of criteria acceptable to the 
Association for purposes of administering Sub-loans out of the proceeds of the Credit;
(f)
"PCU" means the Project Coordination Unit within the Ministry of Finance 
of RS;
(g)
"private enterprise" means any commercial entity registered according to 
Page  3
the applicable laws and regulations of RS, in which the management is not directly or 
indirectly controlled by RS, and more than fifty percent (50%) of the shareholding is 
held by persons or entities other than RS, the local authorities or any subdivision 
thereof, or entities controlled by RS;
(h)
"RS" means Republika Srpska, a political subdivision of the Borrower, and 
includes any successor or successors thereto;
(i)
"RS Banking Supervision Agency" means the agency, established or to be 
established under the Law referred to in Section 6.01 (a) to this Agreement, to 
supervise the banks in RS;
(j)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Development Credit Agreement;
(k)
"Sub-loan" means a loan  made or proposed to be made by a PFI out of the 
proceeds of the Credit to a Beneficiary for a Sub-project (defined hereafter);
(l)
"Sub-project" means a specific development project to be carried out by a 
Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
(m)
"Subsidiary Finance" means the loan made pursuant to the Subsidiary 
Finance Agreement;
(n)
"Subsidiary Finance Agreement" means the agreement entered into between 
the Borrower and RS pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Development Credit Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules 
supplemental to the Subsidiary Finance Agreement;
(o)
"Subsidiary Loan" means any loan made pursuant to a Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement (defined hereafter); and
(p)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any agreement entered into between RS, 
through the PCU, and a PFI pursuant to the Project Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules supplemental to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by a PFI on 
account of withdrawals made by a Beneficiary under a Sub-loan to meet the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Sub-project under Part A of the Project in 
respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested; and (ii) 
expenditures made (or if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part E of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of Parts A and E of the Project, open 
and maintain in DEM a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
Page  4
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1, 2008 and ending May 1, 2033.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 1, 2018, shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Description of the Project Use of the Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall cause RS to carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
Page  5
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to RS under a 
subsidiary finance agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and RS (the 
Subsidiary Finance Agreement) under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Association.  Except as the  Association shall otherwise agree, such 
terms and conditions shall include the following: 
(i)
the Borrower shall relend to RS an amount in Dollars equivalent to 
the amount of the Credit;
(ii)
the term of the Subsidiary Finance shall be 35 years, including a 
10-year grace period;
(iii)
the Borrower shall charge RS a commitment charge at a rate equal 
to the rate payable to the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.04 of 
this Agreement, on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Finance 
not withdrawn from time to time;
(iv)
the Borrower shall charge RS a service charge on the principal 
amount of the Subsidiary Finance withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time at a rate equal to the rate payable by the Borrower 
pursuant to Section 2.05 of this Agreement;
(v)
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Finance shall be repaid by 
RS in Dollars and shall be the equivalent in Dollars (determined 
as of the date or respective dates of repayment) of the value of 
currency or currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account; and
(vi)
the Borrower shall have the right to require modification in the 
repayment terms of the Subsidiary Finance in conformity with the 
provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Finance  
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Subsidiary Finance Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultant’s services required for Part E of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
shall be carried out by RS pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
Page  6
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association, who shall be employed by September 30, 1998, on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
RS shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement or the Subsidiary Finance Agreement; and
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that RS will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement or the Subsidiary Finance Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely that any event specified in 
paragraph (a) of  Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a 
period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the 
Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the Law on RS Banking Supervision Agency, satisfactory to the 
Association,  has been adopted;
(b)
the credit line section of the PCU has been established and its director 
has been appointed with qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association.;
(c)
the credit line section of the PCU has adopted Operational Guidelines for 
the PFIs in form and content satisfactory to the Association; and
(d)
the Subsidiary Finance Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and RS, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by and is 
legally binding upon RS in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Finance Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by and is legally binding upon the Borrower and RS in accordance with its 
Page  7
terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04.  The obligations of the Borrower under Article III of this 
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Foreign Trade
and Economic Relations
Musala 9
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first above written.
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ A. Izetbegovic 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S. Mitra 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
Page  8
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Consultants' services,
     210,000
100%
training and auditing
under Part E of the
Project
(2)
Sub-loans
100% of amounts
disbursed
(a) under Part A.1
   2,960,000
of the Project
(b) under Part A.2
     370,000
of the Project
(3)
Goods under Part E
50,000
100% of foreign
of the Project
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and
85% of local
expenditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(4)
Incremental operating
     110,000
100%
costs under Part E of
the Project
TOTAL
   3,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; 
and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the incremental expenses 
incurred by the PCU on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, 
including staff salaries, office supplies, vehicle operation, travel and supervision 
costs.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a)
in respect of a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been made in accordance 
with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in 
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; and
(b)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for:  (a) payments by a PFI under a Sub-loan; 
(b) contracts for goods not exceeding $50,000 equivalent each; (c) incremental 
operating costs; (d) contracts for employment of consulting firms not exceeding 
$100,000 equivalent each; and (e) contracts for employment of individual consultants 
not exceeding $50,000 equivalent each, under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Page  9
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to re-start and expand private enterprise 
activities through medium-term loans from commercial banks; and (b) to improve credit 
management capacity and loan administration skills of the commercial banks.
The Project consists of the following parts subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives.
Part A:
Line of Credit
(1)
The establishment and operation by RS of a credit facility for the financing, 
through the provision of Sub-loans by PFIs to Beneficiaries, of specific development 
projects and associated working capital in the manufacturing, production and 
processing sectors in Benefiting Municipalities.
(2)
The establishment and operation by RS of a credit facility for the financing, 
through the provision of Sub-loans by PFIs to Beneficiaries, of specific development 
projects and associated working capital in the manufacturing, production and 
processing sectors in Brcko.
Part B:
Banker’s Training
Provision of technical assistance to PFIs to evaluate Sub-loan applications and 
to introduce loan administration and monitoring procedures and enhance systems to 
implement such procedures.
Part C:
Private Enterprise Support
Provision of technical assistance to Beneficiaries to develop viable business 
strategies.
Part D:
Banking Supervision
Provision of technical assistance to the National Bank of Republika Srpska 
(Banja Luka) and RS Banking Supervision Agency to strengthen their capacity in 
regulation and supervision.
Part E:
Implementation Support
Provision of technical assistance and office equipment for the strengthening of 
the PCU for Project implementation.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the amount of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Credit Agreement, provided, 
however, that notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 (b) of the Attachment to 
the Annex to Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, payments for expenditures to be 
financed out of the proceeds of free-limit Sub-loans may be made out of the Special 
Account before the Association shall have authorized withdrawals from the Credit 
Account in respect thereof.  Such expenditures, however, shall qualify as eligible 
expenditures only if the Association shall subsequently authorize such withdrawals; 
and
Page  10
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to DEM 
1,810,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
Parts A and E of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
Page  11
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
