Page  1
October 6, 1999
Mr. Mirsad Kurtovic
Minister of Foreign Trade and
  Economic Relations
Musala 9
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Re:
Dutch Grant for Emergency Pilot Credit Project
Grant No. TF021199
Dear Mr. Kurtovic:
I am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to 
indicate IDA's agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by the Netherlands, 
to make a grant in an amount not exceeding one million United States dollars 
(US$1,000,000) (the Grant) to Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement 
below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes 
and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by IDA of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter 
Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Rory C. O'Sullivan
Director
Bosnia and Herzegovina Resident Mission
AGREED:
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/  Mirsad Kurtovic
Date: October 11, 1999
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to cofinance Part A (line of credit component) of 
the Emergency Pilot Credit Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement dated  June 11, 1998, between Bosnia and Herzegovina and IDA (Credit No.3070 
BOS) which aims to restart and expand private enterprise activities in Republika 
Srpska by way of resource transfer through medium-term loans from local commercial 
banks.  The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given consist of 
financing, through the provisions of Sub-loans by Participating Financial Institutions 
(PFIs) to Beneficiaries of specific development projects and associated working 
capital in the manufacturing, production and processing sectors in benefiting 
Municipalities.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall: (a) cause Republika Srpska to carry out the Activities with 
due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and 
Page  2
other resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the 
Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall reasonably request; 
(d) from time to time exchange views with IDA's representatives on the progress and 
results of the Activities; and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable IDA 
to visit the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina for purposes related to the Grant.  
Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if IDA shall so request, 
prepare and furnish to IDA promptly upon completion of the Activities a report, in 
form and substance satisfactory to IDA, on the results and impact of the Activities.
2.2.
For the purpose of ensuring that the Grant is implemented and that funds are 
transferred according to the terms and conditions of the Grant, the Recipient shall 
enter into a Subsidiary Grant Agreement (Subsidiary Grant Agreement) with Republika 
Srpska on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA which shall include the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement between IDA 
and Republika Srpska dated June 11, 1998.
3.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
3.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its 
books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom 
by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for amounts paid 
(or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by a PFI on account of 
withdrawals made by the Beneficiary under a Sub-loan to meet the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Sub-project under the Activities in respect of 
which the withdrawal from the Grant Account is requested to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.
3.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of the    % of
Grant Allocated
Expenditures to
Item
(in U.S. Dollars)
  be Financed
Sub-loans
   1,000,000
100% of amount disbursed
TOTAL
   1,000,000
3.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3.2 above: (a) no withdrawals shall 
be made: (i) for payments made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this 
Letter Agreement by IDA (ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the 
territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a member of IDA or for goods produced in or services supplied 
from such territories; (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or 
for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to IDA’s knowledge, is prohibited 
by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations; or (v) in respect of a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has 
been made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in the Project Agreement between IDA and Republika Srpska dated June 
11, 1998; or (vi) after June 30, 2000 or such later date as IDA shall establish by 
written notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date), except that withdrawals may be 
made for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding 
application is received by the Bank within four months after the Closing Date, after 
which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall 
be canceled.
3.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the 
form specified by IDA.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the 
Recipient by the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations or such other person 
as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) be accompanied by such evidence 
in support of the application as IDA shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen 
signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided 
with the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application 
for an amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and 
substance to satisfy IDA that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from 
the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the 
Activities.  The Bank shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant 
Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
3.5.
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statement of expenditures for payments by a PFI under a Sub-loan, under such terms and 
Page  3
conditions as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
3.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.  IDA, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall 
purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such 
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this 
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by IDA.
3.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in US Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial 
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Attachment  to this 
Annex.
4.
Accounts and Audits
4.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Activities of the departments 
or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Activities or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in 
subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (ii) furnish to IDA as soon as 
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such year, 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as IDA 
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to IDA such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as IDA shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after 
IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable IDA’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
5.
Suspension and Cancellation
5.1.
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following 
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any 
of its obligations herein specified; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other 
entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) has 
made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan 
agreement with the IBRD or any development credit agreement with  IDA shall have been 
suspended. 
5.2.
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been 
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 5.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, within six months after the 
effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities. 
Attachment
Special Account
Page  4
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment, the term "Authorized Allocation" means an 
amount equivalent to US$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has 
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals 
to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a deposit 
into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, IDA 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to IDA requests for deposits into the Special Account at 
such intervals as IDA shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to IDA the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each 
such request, IDA shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from 
the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount 
as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by IDA from the Grant Account under the 
eligible item(s), and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to IDA such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, IDA shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within the period 
of time specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any 
of the audit reports required to be furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
IDA shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to IDA, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as IDA may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if IDA shall so request, refund to IDA) an amount equal to the amount of such payment 
Page  5
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless IDA shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by IDA into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to IDA such 
outstanding amount.
