Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3070 BOS
Project Agreement
(Emergency Pilot Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
Dated as of June 11, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3070 BOS
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated as of June 11, 1998 between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and Republika Srpska (RS).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to three million 
seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,700,000) on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
RS agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in 
this Agreement; and
(B)
by a subsidiary finance agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and RS (the Subsidiary Finance Agreement) the proceeds of the Credit provided for 
under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to RS on terms and 
conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Finance Agreement; 
WHEREAS RS in consideration of the Association’s entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project; 
Management and Operations of RS
Section 2.01. (a) RS declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and environmental practices and 
shall  provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and RS shall otherwise agree, RS shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) RS undertakes that, unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, Sub-loans will be made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
RS shall exercise its rights in relation to each Sub-project in such 
manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Association and of RS; (ii) comply with 
its obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Finance Agreement; and (iii) 
achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for Part E of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. RS shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Finance Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, RS shall not take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating 
or waiving the Subsidiary Finance Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) RS shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Finance Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
RS shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by RS of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Finance Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) RS shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition) in respect of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, RS shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and RS, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with RS on said plan.
Page  3
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) RS shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations and financial conditions and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project of the departments or agencies of RS 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
RS shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for Each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association, who shall be 
employed by September 30, 1998, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) above for such year as so audited; and (B) the 
report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
RS thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
a date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date  specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify RS of 
this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Page  4
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Republika Srpska:
Ministry of Finance of Republika Srpska
Ul. Vuka Karadzica 4
78000 Banja Luka
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of RS or by RS on 
behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by its Minister of Finance, or by such other person or persons as RS shall 
designate in writing, and RS shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Banja Luka, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ S.Mitra
Authorized Representative
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
By /s/ B. Plavsic
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program
A.
Project Management
1.
RS shall maintain the PCU until completion of the Project with adequate staff, 
funds, facilities and other resources required for this purpose in a manner 
satisfactory to the Association.  The PCU shall be responsible for the overall 
implementation and coordination of the Project.
2.
PCU shall maintain the Operational Guidelines in form and content satisfactory 
to the Association and duly perform all its obligations under the Operational 
Guidelines and shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Operational Guidelines 
without obtaining the prior approval of the Association.
3.
RS shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the 
Association, the carrying out  of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
Page  5
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, by February 28 of each year, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) above, on the progress achieved in carrying out of the Project during 
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended 
to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by March 31 of each year, or such later date 
as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) above, and 
thereafter take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
B.
Part A of the Project
1.
Except as the Borrower and the Association shall agree, the Subsidiary Finance 
Agreement shall contain the following Project implementation arrangements for purposes 
of Part A of the Project.  RS shall maintain or cause to be maintained a separate 
credit line section within the PCU, with staff and other resources and terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Association, to be responsible for the carrying out of 
said Part A of the Project.  RS shall also establish and maintain a credit committee 
of the credit line section which shall be responsible for  approval of Subsidiary 
Loans applied for by PFIs. 
2.
RS shall, through the PCU:
(a)
relend  to the PFIs the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated from time to time to Category (2) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement under Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be 
entered into between RS and each such PFI, under terms and conditions which shall have 
been approved by the Association, and which shall include, without limitation, those 
set forth in the Annex to this Schedule;
(b)
monitor the overall execution of Part A of the Project and the carrying 
out by the PFIs of their obligations under their respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements 
in accordance with policies and procedures satisfactory to the Association;
(c)
take or cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate on its part 
to enable the PFIs to perform in accordance with the provisions of their respective 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements all the obligations of the PFIs therein set forth, and not 
take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance; and
(d)
exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner 
as to protect the interests of the Association and the Borrower and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive any such Agreement or any provision thereof.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 1
Principal Terms and Conditions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements
The principal terms and conditions set forth in this Schedule shall apply for 
the purposes of paragraph 2 (a) of Section B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
A.
Terms
1.
The principal amount to be relent out of the proceeds of the Credit to a PFI 
under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be denominated in DEM and be the 
equivalent of the aggregate amount of the principal of all Sub-loans made out of the 
proceeds thereof.
2.
The Subsidiary Loan shall: (a) be charged monthly, on the principal amount 
thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest at a rate of two percent 
(2%) below the DEM LIBOR rate for the same term as the Subsidiary Loan, in effect the 
first day of each calendar quarter, but such interest rate to be not less than two 
percent (2%) per annum; and (b) have a maturity of not more than three (3) years.
3.
The right of a PFI to the use of the proceeds of its respective Subsidiary Loan 
shall be: (a) suspended upon failure of such PFI to perform any of its obligations 
Page  6
under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement or to continue to be in compliance with 
all legal and regulatory requirements applicable to its operations; and (b) terminated 
if such right shall have been suspended pursuant to subparagraph (a) hereof for a 
continuous period of sixty (60) days.
B.
Conditions
1.
A Subsidiary Loan Agreement may be entered into with a PFI, which the PCU shall 
have determined, and the Association shall have agreed, that such PFI:
(a)
is duly established and licensed to operate in RS;
(b)
except as otherwise agreed with the Association, has been in existence 
for at least two years;
(c)
is operating pursuant to investment and lending policies and procedures 
acceptable to the Association, and has undertaken to maintain said policies and 
procedures; 
(d)
is in compliance with applicable prudential regulations of RS; or has 
entered into an agreement with the banking supervision authorities on a time-based 
program to achieve compliance with applicable prudential regulations of RS if it is 
not in compliance with such regulations; and
(e)
is expected to have positive net capital after financial restructuring 
and debt relief, based on data provided by the banking supervision authorities.
2.
Each respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall contain provisions pursuant to 
which each respective PFI shall undertake to:
(a)
carry out activities under Part A of the Project and conduct its 
operations and affairs in accordance with appropriate financial standards and 
practices, with qualified management and staff in adequate numbers, and in conformity 
with the investment and lending policies and procedures referred to in paragraph 1 (c) 
hereof, and provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the purpose;
(b)
(i)
make Sub-loans to Beneficiaries on the terms and conditions set 
forth in the Operational Guidelines including, without limitation, 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Attachment to this 
Annex;
(ii) 
exercise its rights in relation to each such Sub-loan in such 
manner as to protect its interests and the interests of the 
Borrower, RS and the Association, comply with its obligations 
under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement and achieve the 
purposes of Part A of the Project;
(iii)
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its agreements 
providing for Sub-loans, or any provision thereof, without prior 
approval of RS; and
(iv)
appraise Sub-projects and supervise, monitor and report on the 
carrying out by Beneficiaries of Sub-projects, in accordance with 
the Operational Guidelines;
(c)
maintain, with staff and other resources and terms of reference, 
satisfactory to the Association and RS:  
(i)
a credit committee to be responsible for the evaluation and 
approval of Sub-loan applications; and
(ii)
a technical unit to be responsible for the appraisal and 
supervision of the carrying out of Sub-projects;
(d)
(i)
exchange views with, and furnish all such information to the 
Association or the PCU, as may be reasonably requested by the 
Association, RS or the PCU, with regard to the progress of its 
activities under Part A of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of Part A of the Project;
Page  7
(ii)
prepare and submit to the PCU quarterly reports on Sub-loan 
disbursements and repayments, and on the progress made in 
achieving the objectives outlined in the business plans submitted 
with the Sub-loan applications; and
(iii)
promptly inform the Association and the PCU of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its 
activities under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(e)
(i)
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance 
with sound accounting practices, its operations and financial 
condition; and
(ii)
furnish to the Association such information concerning said 
records and accounts as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request; and
(f)
assume the credit risk of each Sub-loan.
ATTACHMENT TO THE ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 1
Terms and Conditions of the Sub-loans
The provisions of this Attachment shall be for the purposes of paragraph 2 (b) 
(i) of Part B of the Annex to this Schedule 1.
1.
The principal amount of each Sub-loan made out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated from time to time to Category (2) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement shall:
(a)
be denominated in DEM, and be the equivalent in DEM (determined as of the 
date or respective dates of withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment out of the 
Special Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out 
on account of the cost of goods and works financed out of such proceeds for Sub-loans 
under Part A of the Project; and 
(b)
not exceed the equivalent of DEM 250,000.
2.
Each Sub-loan shall be:
(a)
charged monthly, on the principal amount thereof withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, an interest rate of not more than seven percent (7%) 
above the interest rate set forth in paragraph A.2 of the Annex to Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
repaid, in respect of interest on the outstanding principal balance of 
the Sub-loan, monthly, as determined by the PFI in accordance with its investment and 
lending policies; and
(c)
repaid, in respect of the principal balance of the Sub-loan disbursed and 
outstanding, within a period of three (3) years or less.
3.
No expenditures for a Sub-project shall be eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of a Sub-loan unless:
(a)
the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been approved by the 
Association and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than 180 days prior 
to the date on which the Association shall have received the application and 
information required under paragraph (4) of this Attachment in respect of such 
Sub-loan; or
(b)
the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been a free-limit Sub-loan 
(as hereinafter defined) for which the Association shall have authorized withdrawals 
from the Credit Account and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than 
180 days prior to the date on which the Association shall have received the request 
and information required under paragraph 4 (b) of this Attachment in respect of such 
free-limit Sub-loan.  For the purposes hereof, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a 
Sub-loan for a Sub-project to be made by each respective PFI in an amount to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit which shall not exceed the sum determined 
from time to time by the Association and notified to RS and each such respective PFI.
4.
(a)
When presenting a Sub-loan, other than a free-limit Sub-loan, to the 
Page  8
Association for approval, the PFI shall furnish to the Association, through the PCU, 
an application, in a form satisfactory to the Association, together with:
(i)
a description of the Beneficiary, including balance sheet and 
income statement information;
(ii)
the appraisal of the Sub-project, including a description of the 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit;
(iii)
a business plan, including recent and projected financial 
statements of the Beneficiary;
(iv)
the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the 
schedule of amortization therefor; and
(v)
any such other information as the Association shall reasonably 
request.
(b)
Each request for authorization to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain:
(i)
a summary description of the Beneficiary and the Sub-project, 
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and
(ii)
the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule 
of amortization therefor.
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Association not 
later than December 31, 1999.
5.
Sub-loans shall be made to Beneficiaries who each shall have established to the 
satisfaction of the PFI making the Sub-loan, on the basis of Operational Guidelines 
that:
(a)
it has been in existence preferably for at least two years;
(b)
it operates in RS and is registered with RS tax authorities and the local 
chamber of commerce;
(c)
it is engaged in agro-processing, manufacturing or other economic 
activity that supports the restoration of food production or industrial production;
(d)
it has no outstanding Sub-loan to any PFI;
(e)
it is a private enterprise; and
(f)
it is creditworthy, and has a satisfactory financial structure and the 
organization, management, staff and financial and other sources required for the 
efficient carrying out of this operations, including the carrying out of the 
Sub-project.
6.
Sub-loans shall be made for Sub-projects which are each determined, on the basis 
of an appraisal carried out in accordance with the Operational Guidelines, to be:
(a)
technically feasible and economically, financially and commercially 
viable, with an expected financial rate of return of not less than fifteen percent 
(15%);
(b)
capable of being implemented and made operational within a period of not 
more than six (6) months; and
(c)
in compliance with environmental standards satisfactory to the 
Association and in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations of RS relating 
to health, safety and environmental protection.
7.
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the PFI making the Sub-loan shall 
obtain, by written contract or other appropriate means, rights adequate to protect its 
interest and those of RS and the Association, including the right to:
Page  9
(a)
require the Beneficiary to carry out the Sub-project with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, economic, financial and 
commercial practices, to maintain adequate records, and to provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities and other resources required for the purpose;
(b)
require that: (i)  the goods and consultants’ services to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the basis of competitive price 
quotations obtained locally and internationally, account being taken also of other 
relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods 
and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case 
of consultants’ services, of their quality and the competence of the parties rendering 
them; and (ii) such goods and services be used exclusively in the carrying out of the 
Sub-project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association or 
the PCU on behalf of RS if the Association, RS or the PCU shall so request, the goods 
and the sites, works, plans and construction included in the Sub-project, the 
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that the Beneficiary shall take out and maintain such insurance, 
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business 
practice, including such insurance to cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
carry out and operate the Sub-project in accordance with appropriate 
health, safety and environmental standards, satisfactory to the Association;
(f)
obtain all such information as the Association, RS or the PCU shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and 
financial condition of the Beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived from the 
Sub-project; and
(g)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the 
proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform its obligations 
under its contract with the PFI.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement under Part E of the Project
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
Procurement Procedure
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Post Review
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply to Part B of this Section.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Page  10
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for technical assistance for Project 
implementation support under Part E of the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for external project audits under Part E of the Project estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
