CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 366 SE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 9, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 366 SE
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 9, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 9, 1973, between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
(hereinafter called  the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL       DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have their respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "DTP" means the Direction des Travaux Publics of th., Borrower.
(b)   "Guidelines for Procurement" means the Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in April 1972,
as revised in October 1972.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to eight million dollars ($8,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,


﻿4
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under this Agreement; provided, however, that,
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on
account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member
of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied
from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement and in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1978 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 15
and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing
July 15, 1983, and ending January 15, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on January 15, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project through the DTP
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial,


﻿5
administrative and engineering practices, and 5hall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without any limitation upon the generality of the foregoing, the
Borrower shall, during the execution of the Project, allocate budget funds (including
funds for equipment renewal) sufficient to cover the local capital costs of the
Project and the recurrent costs of highway maintenance for the roads of the
Borrower's highway system.
Section 3.02. In order to assist DTP in (i) supervi6ing the strengthening wr
under Part A of the Project, (ii) carrying out Part B(a) of the Project ard (iii)
carrying out Part C of the Project the Borrower shall employ engineering consultants
acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall empWny
or cause to be employed contractors acce ,Lable to the Association upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon   their preparation, the    plans, specifications, contract documents and
construction  and procurement schedules for the Project, and any 1r1n:
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request,
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods alid
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all


﻿6
such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire, as and when needed, all rights in respect of land
or easements as shall be required for carrying out the Project and shall, if requested
by the Association, furnish to the Association, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Association that such rights in respect of land and
easements are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.07. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
obtain, for the purpose of carrying out Part B(a) of the Project, the approval of
the Association for (i) the list of DTP counterpart personnel to be assigned to
the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement and (ii) the list of
recipients for the fellowships included in such Part.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the roads and bridges in its highway
system to be adequately maintained and shall cause all necessary repairs thereof
to be made promptly, in accordance with sound engineering practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, equipment, services and other
resources required for the foregoing.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that its traffic rules and
regulations relating to vehicle dimensions, weights and speeds are appropriate to
the geometric dnd structural standards of the Borrower's highway system and shall
take all necessary action to implement and enforce such traffic rules and regulations.
(b)   In order to assist the Borrower in meeting its obligations under the
foregoing paragraph the Borrower shall cause the weighbridge and the mobile scales
included in Part B (b) of the Project to be operated by qualified personnel.


﻿7
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall: (i) maintain a road inventory; (ii) collect
in accordance with appropriate statistical methods and procedures such technical,
economic and financial information as shall be reasonably required for proper
planning of maintenance, improvements, and extensions of the highway system
of the Borrower and; (iii) furnish to the Association such information in respect
thereof as the Association shall reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Cousultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from    time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance    of  their  respective  obligations  under   this  Agreement, the
administration, operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the
Project, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
th Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under this
Agreement.


﻿8
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. This Agreement shall be free from any taxes on or in connection
with the execution, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon, and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in this Agreement
notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01(b) of
the General Conditions, namely, that, in order to assist DTP in carrying out Part
B(a) of the Project, the Borrower has entered into a contract acceptable to the
Association with the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement.


﻿9
Section 8.02. The date August 9, 1973 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which this Agreement shall
terminate or on a date 30 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Ministre chargd des Finances of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministre des Finances et
des Affaires Economiques
Dakar, S6n6gal
Cable address:
MINIFINANCES
Dakar
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By /s / A. J. Coulbary
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ R. Chaufournier
Regional T'ice President
Western Africa


﻿SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.    Civil Works                   2,870,000           62% of total
under Part A                                      expenditures
of the Project                                    (representing
the estimated
foreign expendi-
ture component)
II.   Equipment for                 1,600,000           100% of foreign
workshops and                                     expenditures or
highway mainte-                                   91% of total ex-
nance and work-                                   penditures (rep-
shop improvements                                 resenting the
under Parts B(b)                                  estimated foreign
and B(c) of the                                   expenditure com-
Project, respec-                                  ponent)
tively
III.  Fellowships and               1,740,000           100% of foreign
Consultants' Serv-                                expenditures
ices under Parts A,
B(a) and C of the
Project
IV.   Unallocated                   1,790,000
TOTAL              8,000,000


﻿1
12
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of
the Borrower is also that of another country in the territories of which goods
are produced or from the territories of which services are supplied, expenditures
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
(b)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and of
expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories of
the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed directly under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit,
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures tinder any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column ot the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and


﻿13
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under this Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such
amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I shall
increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A.    Pavement strengthening of primary roads as listed in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Part B.    Implementation  of a four-year program    to improve highway
maintenance by:
(a)   The reorganization of maintenance operations and equipment repair,
the training of all levels of DTP personnel and the provision of 4
fellowships for technical training abroad.
(b)   The purchase of highway maintenance equipment and spare parts, radio
equipment, mobile scales and a weighbridge.
(c)  The improvement of workshops.
Part C.
(a)   Preinvestment studies concerning the strengthening of paved roads as
listed in Schedule 5 of this Agreement and the construc  of the
Louga-Keur Momar Sarr-N'Gnith road.
(b)   Review of feeder roads requirements.
The Project is expected to be completed by December, 1977.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Contracts Governed by Guidelines for Procurement
1.    With respect to any contract for civil works, bidders shall be required to
prequalify. Invitations to prequalify shall be issued at least 45 days in advance
of the date specified therein as the date of prequalification. The Borrower shall,
before qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure
to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the
Association shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with
a statement of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification, shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association
for its comments before the applicants are notified and the Borrower shall make
such additions to or deletions from the said list as the Association shall reasonably
request.
2.    With respect to any contract for civil works or goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,000 or more:
(a)   identical or similar goods shall be grouped together whenever
practicable for the purpose of bidding and procurement;
(b)   before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedure
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification or addition to the bidding documents shall require the Association's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders;
(c)   invitations to bid shall include the following terms and conditions;
(i)         that at least 60 days are allowed for the submission of bids;
(ii)        that bids shall be accompanied by a bid bond or bank guarantee
of at least 2% of the amount of the bid;
(iii)       that the successful bidder will be required to furnish a
performance bond in an amount of at least 100% of the contract


﻿16
price or a bank guarantee of at least 10% of such price, to remain
in effect until acceptance of the works; and
(iv)        that the contract will provide for retentions of at least 10% under
each of the contractor's monthly invoices until the amount
thereof totals at least 5% of the contract price, one-half thereof
to be released upon completion of the works or supply of the
goods and the remainder, upon final reception of the works or
the goods.
(d)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants, and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(e)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(f)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect to any such contract.
3.    With respect to any other contract for goods and services, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract is not consistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿17
B.    Supplemental Rules on Bid Evaluation and Comparison for goods
included in Category II of the table set out in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
produced goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided, and
bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (Dakar) price for imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for locally produced goods. The cost to the Borrower
of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account in the evaluation
of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines for Procurement.
2.    For purposes of the provisions hereinafter set forth, the following terms shall
have the following meanings:
(a)   Preferred Domestic Bid means a bid offering goods manufactured in
the territories of the Borrower if the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction
of the Borrower and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in the territories of the Borrower of not less than 20%
of the ex-factory bid price.
(b)   Non-preferred Domestic Bid means any other bid offering goods
manufactured in the territories of the Borrower.
(c)   Foreign Bid means any bid other than those specified in (a) or (b)
above.
3.    A margin of preference may be granted by the Borrower to Preferred
Domestic Bids. Such preference shall be granted by adding to each Foreign Bid,
for the purpose only of comparison with Preferred Domestic Bids, an amount
(hereinafter called "Domestic Preference Margin") equal to the smaller of (i) the
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the goods offered in the bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid
price of such goods.
4.    If Preferred Domestic Bids are received, the comparison among all evaluated
bids for each contract shall be made in the stages and with the preferences indicated
below:


﻿I
18
Stage                     Bids to be Compared             Preference
I.                    All Preferred Domestic Bids          None
and Non-preferred Domestic
Bids.
II.             (a)   Lowest evaluated bid under           Add Domestic
Stage I, if Preferred Domestic        Preference
Bid, with all Foreign Bids;           Margin to
Foreign Bids
or
(b)   Lowest evaluated bid under           None
Stage I, if Non-preferred
Domestic Bid, with all
Foreign Bids.
III.                  If Lowest evaluated bid under        None
Stage II is not the lowest
evaluated bid under Stage 1,
all Foreign Bids only.
5.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted to Preferred Domestic Bids, the information required to establish the
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.
C.    Rules Applicable for the Procurement of Certain Goods Included in
Category II of the Table set out in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
Notwithstanding the provisions included in the foregoing paragraphs of this
Schedule the Association will permit, pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1.2
of the Guidelines for Procurement, fuel and spare parts for improvement works
included in such Category to be procured on the basis of quotations from local
suppliers.


﻿I
19
SCHEDULE 4
List of Primary Roads to be Strengthened
under Part A of the Project
Sections of Primary Roads                      Approximate Length (kin)
Rufisque-Bargny                                         4.7
Diam Niayes-Sebrikotane                                 5.5
N'Diass (PK55)-N'Guekhokh                               16.0
M'Bour-Thiadiaye                                       27.9
Thiadiaye-Fateck                                       34.9
N'Gath-Birkelane                                       20.3
TOTAL                  109.3


﻿1
20
SCHEDULE 5
List of Paved Roads to be
Studied under Part C(a)
of the Project
Road Number           Sections of Pared Roads      Approximate Length (kin)
N2              Ross Bethio-Rosso                      35
N2              Rosso-Dagana                           36
N3              M'Backe-Touba                           7
N5              Passy-Sokone                           19
N5              Sokone-Karang                          28
R30             Touba-Darou Mousty                     28
D700            Keur Moussa-Kayar                      18
D702            Tivaouane-M'Boro                       17
TOTAL            188


