The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20174
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
PRIVATIZATION AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
March 2, 2000
Private Sector Finance
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
performance of their official duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



EXCHANGE RATE
Currency unit: CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1 = 491 CFAF (January 1996)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ATC       Agence Transcongolaise des Communications
AFD       Agence Franqaise de Developpement
BCC        Banque Centrale du Congo
BNDC       Banque Nationale du Congo
CCA        Caisse Congolaise dAmortissement
CCP        Centre de Cheques Postaux
CFCO       Chemins defer du Congo
CNE        Caisse Nationale d'Epargne
COBAC    Commission Bancaire des Etats d'Afrique Centrale
CORAF    Congolaise de Raffinage
DCO        Direction du Contr6le des Operations
DGH        Direction Generale des Hydrocarbures
ERC        Economic Recovery Credit
HC         Hydro-Congo
IGE        Inspection Generale de l'Etat
ONPT       Office nationale de poste et telecommunications
PEIDP      Public Enterprise Institutional Development Project
SPCP       Secretariat Permanent du Comite de Privatisation
SNDE      Societe Nationale de Distribution d'Eau
SNE       Societe Nationale d'Electricite
UNDP       United Nations Development Program
VN         Voies Navigables
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President: Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFRVP
Country Director: Serge Michailof, AFC07
Sector Manager: Demba Ba, AFTPS
Team Leader: Paul Lignieres, AFTPS



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
PRIVATIZATION AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE  .........................................................i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  ..........................................................                                                       i
PART  1: PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT .........................................................1I
A. Project Background ..........................................................1
B. Statement of Project Objectives and Risks .....................2....................................2
C. Evaluation of Project Objectives and Risks ..........................................................3
D. Achievement of Project Objectives ..........................................................4
E. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ..........................................5
F. Project Sustainability ..........................................................6
G. Bank's Performance ..........................................................6
H. Borrower's Performance .........................................................7
I. Assessment of Outcome ..........................................................7
J. Future Operations ..........................................................8
K. Main Lessons to be Learned .........................................................8
PART  II. STATISTICAL TABLES .........................................................                                             10
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .........................................................                                       10
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ..........................................................11
Table 3: Project Timetable .........................................................                                            12
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ............................... 12
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .........................................................                     13
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation .........................................................                         14
Table 7: Studies Included in Project ...........................                                                                 14
Table 8A: Project Costs ...........................                                                                              14
Table 8B: Project Financing ...........................                                                                         14
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits ...........................                                                                 14
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ...........................                                                                 15
Table 1 1: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ................................................... 17
Table 12: Bank Resources:  Staff Inputs ....................................................... 17
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .......................................................                                      17
Appendix A. Agence Fran,caise de Developpement's Contribution to the ICR ........................... 18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






REPUBLIC OF CONGO
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PRIVATIZATION AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
(Cr. 2775-COB)
PREFACE
1.   This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Privatization and Capacity
Building Project, for which Cr. 2775-COB in the amount of SDR 5.8 million (US$9.0 million
equivalent) was approved in September 1995 and made effective in January 1996.
2.   The project was closed on June 30, 1999, as scheduled. The last disbursement took place
in September 1997. SDR 2.1 million was disbursed; an undisbursed balance of SDR 3.7 million
(US$5.1 million equivalent) has been canceled. Disbursements under the Credit were suspended
in July 1997 because of the country's political situation following resumption of the civil war. In
November 1997, the country was put on non-accrual status. In addition, the Government may
have to refund FF44,792.61 to account for the full recovery of the initial deposit of the special
account. Parallel financing was provided by the Agence Franqaise de Developpement in the
amount of US$0.9 million equivalent. A US$0.5 million Japanese PHRD grant financed
development of proposals for restructuring the financial sector.
3.   The ICR was prepared by Paul Lignieres, Private Sector Specialist (AFTPS). It was
reviewed by Claude Sorel, Private Sector Specialist (AFTPS); Iain Christie, Lead Specialist
(AFTPS); Demba Ba, Sector Manager (AFTPS); Serge Michailof, Country Director (AFC07);
Luc Lapointe, Procurement Specialist (AFTS2); Ren6e Desclaux, Disbursement Officer
(LOAAF); and the previous task teams.
4.   Because of the country's political and security situation, no ICR mission took place. The
report is based on the materials available in the project files. It is also based on discussions with
Bank staff, the Agence Fran~aise de Developpement and consultants involved in project
execution. The Agence Francaise de Developpement contributed to the preparation of the ICR by
providing comments on the report, which are included as Appendix A.






REPUBLIC OF CONGO
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PRIVATIZATION AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
(Credit 2775-COB)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction/Project Background
1.   Since independence in 1960, Congo has been beset by intermittent political turbulence and
civil unrest which prevented it from attaining a track of stable reform and increased business
confidence. In the early 1990s, following protracted civil strife, the Government shifted its focus
from centrally planning the economy to a more market-oriented approach. To support the shift, it
embarked on a policy reform program with the support of the IMF, the Bank and the Agence
Frangaise de Developpement (AFD). Central to the program was the Government's divestiture
from all commercial and industrial activities. The Privatization and Capacity Building Project
was prepared to support this privatization program. In April 1995, when the project was
prepared, the Congolese authorities were anxious to move quickly to consolidate gains made in a
period of peace and ahead of the presidential elections set for 1996. For two years, from 1995-
1997, there was relative peace and stability but hostilities between the party in power and the
opposition resumed in 1997, leading to suspension and eventual cancellation of the credit.
2.   This project follows and builds on two earlier projects: the Second Technical Assistance
Project (Ln. 2753-COB, FY86) which focused on macroeconomic reforms; and the Public
Enterprise Institutional Development Project (PEIDP, Ln. 2868-COB, FY88), designed to pursue
reforms in the public sector. Thus, there was a history of five or six years of attempts to reform
the environment of public enterprises before the operation under review.
Statement/Evaluation of Project Objectives and Risks
3.      The objectives of the project, as stated in the Memorandum of the President (MOP),
were to support the divestiture of public enterprises, introduce a competitive environment in the
utility and petroleum sectors and facilitate private sector development. The project was also
designed to assist the Government in taking up-front actions prior to a private sector adjustment
program to be supported by an IDA credit in FY96. More specifically, the objectives were to:
*  prepare regulatory frameworks for the five major public enterprises in control of petroleum
distribution, transportation, telecommunications, power and water distribution and open up
the sectors to competition progressively;
*  conduct the privatization of these major public enterprises;
*  liquidate other non-viable public enterprises;
*  support regulation and competition in the financial sector and reforms in banking institutions.
4.   The objectives of the project were relevant and supported the Government's program. The
first objective was important because historically, policy formulation, regulation and operations
were all provided by the sectoral line ministries; separation of these activities, and in particular of
the regulatory function, was essential as public monopolies were being privatized and there was
also concern to open sectors to competition. It was partially achieved as privatization laws and
enabling legislation were prepared; these laws and legislation were, however, voted and ratified



for only the telecommunications sector. The second objective was comprehensive and ambitious,
especially as Government's commitment occasionally wavered. The objective was nonetheless
partially achieved as most privatization dossiers were brought to the point of sale. Privatization
was undertaken without prior adoption of a clear regulatory framework; but, of necessity, the
regulatory frameworks were spelt out in the privatization dossiers. Given the overall political
context, although placing greater emphasis on sequencing might have been desirable, it was not
possible in the environment, which prevailed. The third objective was timely and appropriate. At
the time of project preparation, of 43 enterprises still owned or controlled by the Government,
most had accumulated losses and were technically insolvent. This objective was partially
achieved. The fourth objective was relevant and timely and interesting in that it proposed
resolving a bottleneck which could constrain the activities of the privatized utilities and indeed
commerce and industry in Congo - lack of financing. However, political interference made it
difficult to achieve any progress in this component.
5.   Evaluation of risks. The project was very risky but it was one whose potential pay-off was
high; indeed, the MOP clearly identified this risk. However, no real fallback position was
identified. Political events made it impossible to supervise the project or implement it effectively.
In retrospect, the ostensible window of opportunity identified in the MOP may not have been an
adequate justification for proceeding with the project. In the volatile political environment,
tensions arising from spill-over effects (vested interests, retrenchment, etc.) could well have
exacerbated social tensions in the population. As a practical matter, the Bank was quite flexible
when it became impossible to supervise implementation: the project was suspended; however,
with Bank approval, AFD took over many aspects of the privatization program and progress was
made.
Project Implementation Experience and Results
6.   SDR 2.1 million of the SDR 5.8 million IDA Credit was disbursed during project
implementation. AFD provided US$0.9 million equivalent. Disbursements under the Credit
were suspended in July 1997, following resumption of the civil war.
7.   Key factors affecting implementation.  There were three main factors: the country's
domestic political conflict, Government's commitment, and project design. The determining
factor was obviously the civil war, which flared up again during project execution; inevitably, it
had a major impact on project execution -- it significantly disrupted or halted many activities
under implementation. The Bank was obliged to suspend disbursements in July 1997. It is
interesting, however, that some work on the project continued, in spite of the war, notably
through the efforts of AFD. Govermnent commitment to the project was strong during project
preparation, under two successive Ministers of Finance and one change of Government. In
particular, the commitment of the Technical Secretariat of the Privatization Committee to the
project was firm in its duty to prepare and execute the project; interference by various line
ministries, however, compromised the transparency and credibility of the process and
demonstrated the difficulty of building consensus at the broadest level. This factor had a
moderate impact on execution. The project was carefully designed and in a fully participatory
fashion. It came at a time when the IMF was preparing an ESAF and some of the structural
measures of that program were drawn from the privatization agenda. It was an ambitious agenda
but it built on two prior projects and a number of years of investment in institutional reform in
public utilities.
ii



Bank's Performance
8.   Bank performance was highly satisfactory during project preparation and satisfactory
during implementation. During identification, the Bank undertook a comprehensive public
enterprise review which served as the basis for project design. The report was shared and
discussed widely with stakeholders. The Bank established close cooperation with the IMF,
worked closely with AFD in the design and scheduling of the operation and met with multiple
stakeholders.  Several seminars were offered for Congolese delegations that provided the
opportunity to cement relationships and develop project concepts. The Bank rightly identified
and made explicit the political environment as the major risk - not political commitment to
reform but rather warring factions between political parties. However, having identified the risk,
there was no explicit strategy other than the Bank's usual mechanisms to suspend and cancel the
operation. Another feature of the Bank's responsiveness to this operation was a project
management schedule, or critical path analysis (Technical Annex), prepared with the Congolese -
it was certainly the first time that the Bank division concerned had used such a mechanism.
During supervision, Bank performance was professional, objectively focused and based on solid
understanding of the Borrower's institutional capabilities. During implementation, the Bank
worked in tandem with the IMF and AFD to ensure a coherent approach in executing the donors'
respective programs. The deteriorating environment in the Congo in 1997 was identified during
the mid-term review, and the possibility of restructuring the project by reducing its scope was
raised; ensuing civil unrest prevented any restructuring from taking place. The Bank was,
however, able to work informally with the consultants to redesign the approach to privatization
(essentially from concessions to management contracts).
Borrower's Performance
9.   Borrower performance was highly satisfactory at project identification through appraisal;
under implementation, its attention was drawn to other matters and follow-up wasunsatisfactory.
The project was identified following a report submitted at the initiative of Government which
presented an apparently practical approach to privatizing key utilities designed to have a quick
and positive impact and demonstrate the Government's commitment to change. The Borrower's
commitment was evidenced by its active participation in preparation and appraisal of the project;
during implementation, its commitment gradually weakened as the political situation deteriorated.
Nonetheless, the Technical Secretariat of the Privatization Committee continued its work of
preparing privatizations; the deteriorating commitment was manifest more between line ministries
and the Ministry of Finance. Two ministries in particular were difficult interlocutors: Energy
and Justice, the former having close ties to its commercial oil partners, the latter being unwilling
to enter into a dialogue on judicial reform (especially under the financial sector component -
banks are particularly dependeht mechanisms to enforce contracts, as well as conflict resolution).
Project Sustainability and Assessment of Outcome
10.  Although the political situation interrupted the project, the project is likely to be
sustainable given the fact that AFD has taken over much of the program and that Government is
committed to privatization. The project clearly allowed the Borrower to make progress in its
framework for privatization and the process for achieving it. Nonetheless, much is still left to be
completed under the AFD program  and beyond.  It is clear that the project helped the
Government define sectoral strategies, build local capacity and provide external expertise. In
addition, close collaboration between the Bank and AFD during implementation facilitated the
take-over by AFD when the Bank suspended disbursements. If the Government continues to
have the political will to enforce the measures undertaken under the Project, further progress
towards liberalization, privatization and strengthening of the financial sector can be achieved in a
iii



reasonable timeframe. It is noteworthy that the new Government maintains the old one's
commitment to privatization. Although much was accomplished, overall, project outcome is
rated as unsatisfactory, given the political situation and the fact that the project was not
completed.
Future Operations
11.  Given the country's present debt arrears accrual status, all Bank operations in the country
have been suspended since 1997. In this context, no immediate self standing follow-up project on
privatization is being contemplated at this moment. However, the privatization program agreed
with the Government under the Project will be pursued in the context of the continued dialogue
between the Government, IMF and the Bank on structural reforms. This program would be
furthered within a potential upcoming IMF Post conflict program, or Bank Post conflict
operation, should debt arrears clearance conditions for normal resumption of Bank operations in
Congo permit. Debt arrears stock presently amounts to about US$55 million.
Key Lessons Learned
12.  Evaluation of risk and mitigating measures. Given Government's implementation capacity
and the country's recurrent political instability, project objectives were ambitious. This was
recognized in the MOP. However, it is interesting to note that in spite of the problems, and after
project closing, the Government is following through on the privatization of the five PEs and
even starting a second phase, with formal support from AFD and informal support from the Bank.
Whether these activities could have been formulated as a fall-back or exit strategy remains
unclear. The only fall-back strategy was the implicit threat of suspension and cancellation,
which, in fact, were used. The Bank might have adopted indicators to monitor project activities
and bring into play a more explicit exit strategy. If the risks are high, the project design could
include a specific fall-back strategy so that if the project does get off-track, the Bank has recourse
other than suspension and cancellation.
13.  Assessing the political environment. It may be worthwhile for the Bank to make an
objective, independent analysis of the political environment in a country to fully assess the risks
before a project is undertaken. The main objective of such an analysis would be to assess
whether or not the political environment is stable enough for a project to be successfully
implemented.
14.  "Window of opportunity" and privatization of infrastructure The concept of the window
of opportunity for implementing significant reforms which take a long time to implement is a
double edged sword - is it an opportunity or simply a cease-fire during hostilities? The
Government was very keen to proceed with the project and the Bank decided to build on the
Government's commitment to privatization. In addition, the project was prepared shortly after the
devaluation of the CFA franc when the Bank and the IMF wanted to move quickly with policy
reform and support to countries within the CFA franc zone.
15.  Multiple objectives. In the case of high-risk countries, multiple objectives decrease the
probability of success. The project might have addressed fewer PEs or dropped the financial
sector; although the component on financial institutions and public sector was not essential to
support the first three objectives (regulatory framework, privatization, liquidation), it was a useful
complement to them, and an essential part of the macro program.
16. Importance of participation process at the preparation phase. Despite the fact that the
project outcome was unsatisfactory, its preparation phase can be seen as a model of participatory
iv



process and of the borrower's ownership. Even though the implementation phase was interrupted
by the civil war, the very rapid start-up of the privatization program just after the end of the
military turmoil made it clear that the project is sustainable. The participatory process, especially
at the preparation phase, demonstrated why the project helped build local capacity and promote
the concept of competition and privatization in the country.
v






REPUBLIC OF CONGO
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PRIVATIZATION AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT BACKGROUND
1.   Since independence, Congo has had a turbulent history, with successive waves of civil
unrest, even open civil war between well equipped local militias supported by various political
factions. Any period of peace was usually undermined by the knowledge that hostilities might
erupt at any moment. Congo's main economic artery is the corridor between Brazzaville, the seat
of Government, and Pointe Noire, the location of much of its industrial activity, particularly its oil
industry. An urbanized service economy had grown between these two poles, while the
agricultural sector remained marginal. Heavy spending and high public-sector salaries, combined
with poorly performing state plantations, produced a high degree of rural migration to Brazzaville
and Pointe Noire. This took place over a generation when the formal economy was largely run by
the state and private enterprises were discouraged. The economy was supported by external
assistance and the proceeds from oil, which remained high until the mid-1980s. With the decline
in petroleum prices in 1985, the system started showing signs of distress. The Government could
only maintain the civil service through heavy borrowing and selling its petroleum in the forward
market, which has now led to an unsustainable accumulation of debt and uncertain Government
finances in the medium term.
2.   By the beginning of the 1990s, the Government faced severe fiscal and financial
difficulties and the population had clearly endured as much as they could of civil unrest, severely
constrained public services and deterioration of public infrastructure and institutions; a series of
national conferences made the people's views perfectly clear. Nonetheless, in 1993, there was
further violent civil unrest. In response, and following the presidential elections in 1992, the
Government's focus shifted from centrally planning the economy to a more market-oriented
approach. To support the shift, it embarked on a policy reforn program with the support of the
IMF, the Bank and the Agence Frangaise de Developpement (AFD). Central to the program was
the Government's divestiture from all commercial and industrial activities.
3.   This Project was prepared as an integral part of this reform program. Its overall objective
was to strengthen the Government's capacity to prepare and implement the second phase of the
economic reform program started under the Economic Recovery Credit (Cr. 2635-COB, FY94).
The Project was prepared in April 1995, during a period of peace and implementation started
thereafter. Peace continued until June 1997, when hostilities resumed. Disbursements under the
Credit were then suspended. At the same time, the Government stopped servicing its debt to IDA
and was placed on non-accrual status in November 1997. Debt arrears presently amount to about
US$55 million. At project closing, the country's non-accrual status was still in effect.
4.   The project followed two earlier operations that also addressed reform in the public sector:
the Second Technical Assistance Project (Ln. 2753-COB, FY86), which focused on
macroeconomic reforms; and the PEIDP (Ln. 2868-COB, FY88), which closed in December
1996, aimed to initiate reforms in the public sector.  During execution of the PEIDP,



disbursements were suspended between 1990-1994 due to the country's social, political and
military situation.
B. STATEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND RISKS
5.   As stated in the Memorandum of the President (MOP), the project aimed at furthering
Government's capacity to prepare and implement the second phase of its reform program started
under the Economic Recovery Credit. It had four main objectives:
* prepare regulatory frameworks for the five major public enterprises in control of petroleum
distribution, transportation, telecommunications, power and water distribution and open up
the sectors to competition progressively;
* conduct the privatization of these major public enterprises;
* liquidate other non-viable public enterprises; and
* support regulation and competition in the financial sector and reforms in banking institutions.
6.   To achieve these stated objectives, the project comprised the following components:
(a) Regulation and Privatization (US$7.8 million). This component provided consultant services
to: (i) prepare pro-competition regulatory frameworks and build a minimal level of public sector
capacity to regulate the telecommunications, petroleum, power, water, and transport sectors; and
(ii) advise the Government on privatization of the five public enterprises. The component
supported the Technical Secretariat of the Privatization Committee in charge of coordinating the
program and outsourcing to the private sector for audits, sectoral specialists and legal advice. The
Government had already initiated the selection of advisors for the regulatory frameworks and for
privatization for all five companies, with IDA's concurrence.
(b) Public Enterprise Sector Liquidation (US$0.9 million). Under this component, assistance was
provided to liquidate all 57 non-viable enterprises (as identified in the Technical Annex of the
MOP) and complete suspended liquidations. Liquidations were to be contracted out to qualified
private firms, and technical assistance was provided to the Ministry of Justice for proper
monitoring and supervision of the liquidators. An action plan for liquidation and divestiture of
remaining public enterprises and performance indicators were agreed during appraisal.
(c) Reform of Financial Institutions and the Public Sector (US$1.2 million). A US$0.5 million
Japanese grant financed the development of proposals for restructuring the financial sector.
Audits, debt restructuring and liquidation/privatization plans for the insurance company and
several banks (BIDC, UCB, and CRC) were underway. Under this component, a secretariat for
the bank restructuring committee was to be established. Support was to be provided for a
roundtable on Justice and Financial Institutions, which was to lead to proposals for reform of
financial institutions. The supervision of insurance companies by the Ministry of Finance was to
be strengthened, and a financial restructuring plan for the social security agency prepared.
Support in the form of equipment was to be provided to the Inspection Generale de l'Etat (IGE)
to plan the next round of civil service departures. In addition, the Secrdtariat Gin6ral du
Gouvernement was to be supported with the establishment of a computerized database of existing
legislation and the publication of the Journal Officiel
2



(d) Communications Campaign (US$1.1 million). The project financed a public information
campaign to inform stakeholders and the public of the benefits and implications of the reform
program and promote public understanding, support and participation in the transition to a
market-driven economy.
7.   Because of the country's recurrent political instability and short election cycles, the major
risk identified during preparation in May 1995 was the risk that the Government would go back
on its commitment to pursue the privatization program to its end or that the program would not be
implemented if the security situation deteriorated. The window of opportunity for implementing
significant privatization measures was seen to be slim, since elections were to take place late
1996. It was recognized that this political risk was significant. On the other hand, as was clear
from the national conferences, there was consensus amongst all stakeholders that the only way to
secure better public services was through privatization. Thus it was felt that the risk could be
taken as the potential pay-off was substantial. The project was to be closely monitored and would
require early action in the event of a downturn in its execution. In the end, the Bank's standard
covenants relating to suspension and cancellation were used as the only means of stemming the
losses.
C. EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND RISKS
8.   The objectives of the project were relevant insofar as they supported the Government's
program and were highly complementary to one another. The five major public enterprises were
clearly at the heart of providing public services and, in privatizing them, the Government required
a new regulatory framework. Formerly, policy formulation, regulation and even operation were
all vested in the ministries and indeed the French-speaking African countries did not have a
history of explicit regulation of public services. The regulatory frameworks in effect were
designed into the contracts with service providers and concessionaires. In privatizing the public
monopolies, explicit regulation was required, as abuse of monopoly is certainly not limited to
public monopolies. Completion of the liquidation of earlier attempts at privatization was also
essential; Air Congo had continued to fly several years after it was ostensibly liquidated. The
Government could not afford any further anomalies of this nature. Lastly, the financial sector
objectives were similar to those implemented successfully in other countries in the region and
complemented both the privatization program and the macro program - a performing financial
sector being seen as an essential element in a country's return to growth.
9.   Privatization of the PEs--which employed over 13,000 workers (or 10-15% of formal
sector employment) and generated total revenues of 17% of GDP--in a post-war context and
unstable political environment appeared in retrospect a high-risk proposition. The project was
very risky but it was one whose potential pay-off was high; and, indeed, the MOP adequately
identified this risk. However, no real fallback position was identified in case political events
made it impossible to supervise the project or implement it effectively. In retrospect, the
ostensible window of opportunity may not have been an adequate justification for proceeding with
the project. In the volatile political environment, tensions arising from spill-over effects (vested
interests, retrenchment, etc.) could well have exacerbated social tensions in the population. As a
practical matter, the Bank was quite flexible when it became impossible to supervise
implementation: the project was suspended but, with Bank approval, AFD took over many
aspects of the privatization program and progress was made.
3



D. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
10.  Because of the resumption in violence and hostilities in June 1997, none of the project
objectives were fully achieved. The first three objectives were partially achieved. The last
objective was not achieved. Nonetheless, the Project helped build local capacity and promote the
concept of competition and privatization in the country, as evidenced by the very rapid start-up of
the privatization program just after the end of the military turmoil in July 1999.
11.  The first objective relating to the preparation of regulatory frameworks for the major public
services and to open the sectors up to competition progressively was partially achieved. The
Government adopted a Telecommunications Act in May 1997, and at the time of the ICR
preparation, the Government planned to review and revise the Act. The Government is currently
establishing the legal framework for the post, power and water sectors. The water sector is
relatively straightforward and will allow water concessions in specific areas; both power and
telecommunications can be expected to open to competition: telecommunications via cellular
operators in competition with the fixed wire operator immediately; the power system would
remain as a single entity in a first phase but unbundling of services (generation, transmission and
distribution) would offer the opportunity for competition. As it is, Congo already imports power
from neighboring Democratic Republic of Congo.
12.  The second objective with regard to privatization of the five major PEs was partially
achieved. Currently, none of the PEs have been privatized but the process is underway. This
objective was ambitious, especially when experience under the two earlier projects referred to
above showed lack of Government ability to push through the reforms.
e Petroleum. The Government launched reforms that were suspended during the civil war in
1997. In early 1996, the Government launched bids for the privatization of Hydrocongo (sale
of assets), and a Memorandum of Understanding was signed with the successful bidder
before the civil war resumed in June 1997. In October 1997, with the interruption of the civil
war, the Government reviewed sections of the contract, in particular the provision on
exclusivity with guarantee of minimum profitabilitybecause the provision gave an excessive
advantage to potential private operators. After a new round of negotiations (with the same
contractor) and a new timetable for privatization, agreement was reached in July 1999
between the Government and the contractor to start operations. Hydrocongo will be
liquidated as soon as severance payments to laid-off workers are paid. In the case of
CORAF, the national oil refinery company, its privatization is more difficult because the
Government considers CORAF a strategic national asset Although the company has stopped
operating, it has retained all 300 workers.
*  Transport. ATC (Agence Transcongolaise des Communications) is currently organized with
three divisions which are not independent legal entities: CFCO (Chemins defer du Congo),
Port de Pointe Noire, and Voies Navigables (VN). The Government decided to spin off ATC
into three independent entities, privatize the railways, liberalize the river transport and sell
VN's assets, and introduce private sector participation in the management of the Port.
*  Power and Water. Calls for bids for a management contract for these utilities is underway
and a contract is expected to be in place by mid-2000.
* Post and telecommunications. The Government is currently restructuring the ONPT by
separating the post and telecommunications activities. Calls for bids to privatize the
telecommunications are scheduled to take place in early 2000.
4



13.  The third objective relating to liquidation of other non-viable public enterprises was timely
and appropriate. At the time of project preparation only 43 of the 104 Government-owned or
controlled enterprises were still in operation; most had accumulated losses and were technically
insolvent. The appointment of private liquidators and administrators improved the transparency,
efficiency and credibility of the liquidation process and the component's objectives were partially
achieved. Fifteen enterprises have been liquidated since December 98 and twenty more will be
liquidated as of April 30, 2000 according to the Cabinet's Decision of December 8, 1999.
14.  The fourth objective, relating to the financial institutions and the public sector, was
relevant and timely and interesting in that it proposed resolving a bottleneck which could
constrain the activities of the privatized utilities and indeed commerce and industry in Congo -
lack of financing. Political interference made it difficult to achieve any progress in this
component. However, in the banking sector, the Government, the Bank and the Commission
Bancaire des Etats d'Afrique Centrale (COBAC) are still involved in an active dialogue on bank
restructuring, and agreement has been reached on the privatization process. The precise impact of
the project on initiating reforms in the public sector is harder to assess because of the country's
political situation.
E. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
15.  Project implementation was assessed based on the following three factors: factors not
within Government's control, factors within Government's control, and factors related to project
design. Factors relating to project design and to Government's actions are hereafter analyzed
more for the learning dimension than for the reporting aspect of evaluation since the main reason
the project did not fully achieve its objectives was the civil war.
16. Factors not Subject to Government Control. The civil war, which broke out during
execution in June 1997 significantly disrupted or halted altogether activities under
implementation. It is hard to record the level of damage which was incurred. Many of the
facilities which were damaged were the assets of the public utilities: power lines were torn down,
water lines blown up, and railway facilities damaged in Brazzaville. It is also true that the
Government was directly involved in the civil war, and not merely caught in the middle of the
crossfire. The hostilities made it impossible for the Bank to supervise the project and it had no
choice but to suspend the credit.
17. Factors Subject to Government Control. Factors under this category had a moderate
impact on project implementation. The Government's commitment at the highest level during
project preparation was strong, and was largely maintained during implementation. Ministers of
finance changed and there was even a government change. All supported the overarching theme
of privatization as part of the macro program with the IMF and the Bank, with the exception of
the banks and insurance companies which were considered the private ground of the Ministry of
Finance; depositors of the Banque Centrale du Congo (BCC) and of the Banque Nationale du
Congo (BNDC) lost their savings and funds were never recovered.  On this latter point, the
Government tried to pin responsibility on one administrateur provisiore and prevented him from
leaving the country for some time. Commitment of the Technical Secretariat of the Privatization
Committee to the project remained strong during preparation and execution.  However,
interference by various ministries during execution in the liquidation and management of public
enterprises compromised the transparency and credibility of some operations.  This was
particularly true of the Ministry of Energy which resented any interference in its oil and
petroleum affairs; the Ministry of Justice dragged its feet on judicial reforms.
5



18.  Factors Related to Project Design. The actual impact of the project design cannot be
measured because of the interruption in operations. The project did espouse very ambitious
objectives to be implemented over a relatively short period. In this sense it was ambitious but the
risks were also recognized. The components were all priorities from the Government's point of
view and were supported by the Bank and also became structural measures under the IMF
program. But it is also important to remember that consumers were anxious for peace and better
quality of provision of public services; even the unions, when consulted, understood the urgency
of the reforms, even if they did not particularly relish the layoffs which would be necessary. The
Project included detailed guidelines for the implementation of the various components under a
critical path analysis in the Technical Annex of the MOP but they were mostly temporal.
F. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
19.  When the Bank suspended disbursements, interestingly, the Government's commitment to
privatization was not shaken. The Government/Bank dialogue on privatization continues on an
informal basis because the country's non-accrual status is still in effect. Indeed, some of the
project's objectives were partially achieved, as noted above. The Government has maintained the
pressure to reform and the process of privatization of Hydrocongo, ONPT, SNE, SNDE, and ATC
resumed recently, with the same technical advisors as before, financed either by AFD or on a
success-fee basis. The Government expects to adopt a new legal framework for the water, post,
electricity, and mining sectors in early 2000. The Government has also started preparation of the
second phase of the privatization process on its own and without external assistance in the
agriculture and financial sectors. For enterprises in agriculture, forestry, flour milling and
livestock, contracts are pending. In the banking sector, the dialogue between the Government, the
Bank and COBAC on bank restructuring is still ongoing and agreement has been reached on the
process of privatization. Based on interviews conducted for the purpose of this ICR (Government
officials, technical advisors, Bank and AFD Staff), there is a consensus on a real and deep change
in the country's dominant culture to encourage a market-driven economy, led by the private
sector.
G. BANK'S PERFORMANCE
20.  Bank performance was highly satisfactory during preparation and appraisal and
satisfactory during identification and implementation.
21.   Identification Through Appraisal. Bank performance during preparation is rated highly
satisfactory. The Bank undertook a comprehensive public enterprise review which served as the
basis for project design. Project activities were in line with the Government's objective of full
divestiture. The project was prepared under a participatory process that was quite innovative at
the time. There were many meetings with other stakeholders, including the trade unions and
other donors. While there was not so much dialogue with the consuming public, the country had
been through a series of national conferences which had highlighted citizens' dissatisfaction with
public services and there were calls for improvement in the delivery of water, transport, and
electricity services. Even the trade unions accepted the project rationale when it was explained to
them. Project activities were also closely linked with the IMF ESAF and with the AFD program.
The Bank rightly identified the political risk as the major risk. However, a strategy to counteract
the political risk might have been defined Project design did include an implementation plan that
would have ensured an adequate sequencing of the measures to be implemented. Another feature
of the Bank's responsiveness to this operation was a project management schedule, or critical
6



path analysis (Technical Annex), prepared with the Congolese - it was certainly the first time that
the Bank division concerned had used such a mechanism.
22.  Implementation. Bank performance during project implementation is rated satisfactory.
The bank supervision was professional, objectively focused and based on a solid understanding of
the borrower's institutional capabilities. The timing of supervision missions was appropriate and
time spent in the field was sufficient. Through numerous workshops with all stakeholders
throughout the country, the project achieved its objective to build local capacity. During
implementation, the Bank worked closely with AFD to ensure a coherent approach to executing
the Bank's and AFD's respective programs. The Bank worked closely with the IMF and their
structural conditions were drawn directly from the project. Also, the UNDP participated actively
in the discussions and provided a critical link when the Bank and the Fund had to withdraw their
country representatives. A mid-term review (MTR) was conducted in March 1997. The project
team was prompt to react to project implementation issues These issues were generally correctly
assessed and appropriately reported in the performance ratings. The country office made an
excellent contribution in this regard. Although the Bank/borrower relationship was effective and
productive, it did not prevent delays in implementation or problems regarding the transparency of
the PE liquidation. The deteriorating environment in the Congo in 1997 was identified during the
MTR, and the possibility of restructuring the project by reducing its scope was raised. Ensuing
civil unrest prevented restructuring from taking place. The Bank was, however, able to work
informally with the consultants to redesign the approach to privatization (essentially from
concessions to management contracts).
H. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
23.  Borrower performance was highly satisfactory at project identification through appraisal.
It was unsatisfactory during project implementation.
24.  Identification Through Appraisal. Borrower performance at project identification, during
preparation and at project appraisal is rated highly satisfactory, as evidenced by its active
participation in this stage of the project. The Government approached the Bank with a well-
prepared brief on privatization which was readily acceptable to both the Country Operations and
Industry and Energy Divisions (privatization is sometimes a facet of SALs with no real
commitment on the part of governments, which tend to see privatization as "conditions").
25.  Implementation.   Borrower performance during project implementation  is rated
unsatisfactory overall because of the difficult operating environment in government; however, it
is interesting to note how the Technical Committee performed. In spite of a very changeable
environment, the Technical Secretariat of the Privatization Committeemaintained the pressure to
implement the project. As noted above, although the Bank is no longer present, the Privatization
Committee is pushing forward with completing privatization of the five PEs and is moving on a
second phase of the program, the agricultural PEs. Government's commitment did gradually
weaken during implementation as the political situation deteriorated and was expressed though
in-fighting between line ministries, the Ministry of Finance and the Privatization Committee.
I. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
26.  Project objectives were partially met in a very difficult environment; however, project
outcome is rated unsatisfactory. Project outcome is likely to be sustainable over time as the
Government is continuing to complete the transactions, and proceed to the next round, with
formal assistance from AFD and informal assistance from the Bank. The project clearly allowed
7



the Borrower to make progress in its privatization process, although there is still a big outstanding
agenda. The project helped the Govemment to define sectoral strategies, build local capacity and
benefit from external expertise. In addition, the close collaboration between the Bank and AFD
during implementation facilitated the take-over by AFD when the Bank suspended disbursements.
If the Government has the political will to enforce the measures undertaken under the Project,
further progress towards liberalization, privatization and strengthening of the financial sector
could be achieved quite quickly.
J. FUTURE OPERATIONS
27.  The Bank is not considering a follow-up project on privatization at this time, in light of
AFD's continuing work with the Government.
28.  A donor meeting was held in Washington in June 1998 to agree on further assistance to the
Congo and to coordinate post-conflict activities. The meeting agreed that conflict resolution,
national reconciliation, and good governance were key to implementation of Congo's long-term
reconstruction program. The meeting further agreed to deepen the reforms to support a market-
based economy, as a prerequisite for support to Congo's reconstruction program. However,
activities proposed during the donor roundtable had to be put on hold due to renewed fighting and
instability in the country. It is only when the security situation improves that donors can consider
resuming their respective programs.
29.  When the country settles its arrears (about US$55 million), the Bank's lending program can
be resumed. This program will be determined by the need to address the underlying structural
problems of the country's economy within the context of reconstruction.
K. MAIN LESSONS TO BE LEARNED
Project design and implementation identify five main lessons.
30.  Evaluation of risk and mitigating measures. Given Government's implementation capacity
and the country's recurrent political instability, project objectives were ambitious. This was
recognized in the MOP. However, it is interesting to note that in spite of the problems, and after
project closing, the Government is following through on the privatization of the five PEs and
even starting a second phase, with formal support from AFD and informal support from the Bank.
Whether these activities could have been formulated as a fall-back or exit strategy remains
unclear. The only fall-back strategy was the implicit threat of suspension and cancellation,
which, in fact, were used. The Bank might have adopted indicators to monitor project activities
and bring into play a more explicit exit strategy. If the risks are high, the project design could
include a specific fall-back strategy so that if the project does get off-track, the Bank has recourse
other than suspension and cancellation.
31.  Assessing the political environment. It may be worthwhile for the Bank to make an
objective, independent analysis of the political environment in a country to fully assess the risks
before a project is undertaken. The main objective of such an analysis would be to assess
whether or not the political environment is stable enough for a project to be successfully
implemented.
32.  "Window of opportunity" and privatization of infrastructure The concept of the window
of opportunity for implementing significant reforms which take a long time to implement is a
double edged sword - is it an opportunity or simply a cease-fire during hostilities? The
8



Government was very keen to proceed with the project and the Bank decided to build on the
Government's commitment to privatization. In addition; the project was prepared shortly after the
devaluation of the CFA franc when the Bank and the IMP wanted to move quickly with policy
reform and support to countries within the CFA franc zone.
33.  Multiple objectives. In the case of high-risk countries, multiple objectives decrease the
probability of success. The project might have addressed fewer PEs or dropped the financial
sector; although the component on financial institutions and public sector was not essential to
support the first three objectives (regulatory framework, privatization, liquidation), it was a useful
complement to them, and an essential part of the macro program.
34.  Importance of participation process at the preparation phase. Despite the fact that the
project outcome was unsatisfactory, its preparation phase can be seen as a model of participatory
process and of the borrower's ownership.  Even through the implementation phase was
interrupted by the civil war, the very rapid start-up of the privatization program just after the end
of the military turmoil made it clear that the project is sustainable. The participatory process,
especially at the preparation phase, demonstrated why the project helped build local capacity and
promote the concept of competition and privatization in the country.
9



PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial          Partial          Negligible        Not applicable
Macro Policies                         Ol               0                  al                  0
Sector Policies                        O                0 I                O 
Financial Objectives                   O                0                  0                   0
Institutional Development              O                0                  O                   O
Physical Objectives                    0                0                  E                   0
Poverty Reduction                      0                0                  0                   0
Gender Issues                          0                0                  0                   0
Other Social Objectives                0                0                  0                   0
Environmental Objectives               0                0                  0                   0
Public Sector Management               0                O                  0                   O
Private Sector Development             0                0                  O                   E
Other (specify)                        O                O                  O                   0
B. Project Sustainability                Likely                      Unlikely                    Uncertain
(a/)                         (/)                         (/
Highly
C. Bank Performance                     satisfactory                Satisfactory                  Deficient
Identification                          0                          0                            E
Preparation Assistance                  0                           O                           E
Appraisal                               0                           O                            E
Supervision                             El                         0                            E
Highly
D.  Borrower Performance                satisfactory                Satisfactory                  Deficient
Preparation                             El                          0                           E
Implementation                          E                           El                         E0
Covenant Compliance                     E                           E                            El
Operation (if applicable)               E                           E                            0
Highly                                                  Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome                satisfactory     Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory      unsatisfactory
0                El                 0                   El
10



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loans/Credits                             Purpose                    Fiscal Year of       Status
approval
Preceding operations
First Technical Assistance Project   To improve: (a) the quality of Government's  1983      Closed on 06/30/87
(Loan 2285-COB)                 public finance management; and (b) the
execution of its urban infrastructure program
(PCR No. 8834 date 06/01/90)
Second Technical Assistance     To help the Government: (i) design and          1987        Closed on 12/31/90
Project (Loan 2753-COB)         implement measures to promote growth in the
non-oil productive sectors; (ii) improve public
investment programming and the management
of public finances, including debt management;
and (iii) formulate a more effective petroleum
strategy. (PCR No. 10792 dated 06/01/92).
Public Enterprise Institutional  The main objective of the PEIDP was to          1988       Closed on 12/31/96
Development Project             facilitate formulation and implementation of
(Loan 2868-COB)                 the Structural Adjustment Program. It also
aimed at strengthening the GOC's capacity to
implement PE reforms and improve their
management, through: (a) technical and
logistical support; (b) consultant services for
general sector reforms, including liquidation
and privatization, banking sector reform, PE
staff reduction, and financial agreements
between PEs and Government; (c) mgmt
training programs through CENAGES; (d)
auditing and accounting assistance through
CNC; (e) advisory services to improve mgt.
and restructure key public utilities, including
ONPT (telecoms); SNDE (water); SNE
(electricity); Hydro-Congo and CORAF (oil);
and ATC (transport); and (f) services for other
adjustment tasks to supplement resources under
the Second TA Project.
Economy Recovery Credit         To (i) improve public sector efficiency through  1994       Closed on 06/30/95
(Credit 2635-COB)               better public resource mgmt &PE reforms; (ii)
strengthen the country's production capacity
through trade and reg. reforms and remove
impediments to sectoral development,
including private sector; and (iii) develop
human resources and reduce poverty.
11



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                Date Planned                   Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                                n.a.
Preparation (Pre-appraisal mission)                       March 1995                  April 3, 1995
Appraisal                                                 June 1995                   May 26, 1995
Negotiations                                               July 1995                  July 18, 1995
Letter of Development/Sector Policy (if applicable)            -                      July 24, 1995
Board Presentation                                                                  September 5, 1995
Signing                                                                             October 11, 1995
Effectiveness                                            October 1995                January 5, 1996
Midterm review (if applicable)                                                        March 5, 1997
Project Completion                                    December31, 1998
Loan Closing                                             June 30, 1999                June 30, 1999
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY96           FY97            FY98             FY99
Appraisal estimate                                     2.5            6.3             8.1              9.0
Revised estimate                                       0.9            4.7             6.5              9.0
Actual                                                 0.9           2.93             2.96            2.96
Actual as % of estimate                                36             46               36              32
Date of final disbursement                           9/1997
12



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Sector                                Objective                          Estimated                    Actual
Transport             Adoption by govt. of a strategy and sectoral  November 1995            January 1997
outlines
Adoption of the decree creating PAPN       April 1996                  May 1997
Sale of river fleet                        June 1996                   Not done
Restructure the shipyard                   June 1996                   Not done
Adopt statutes for Port of Brazzaville and  April 1996                 Notdone
secondary ports
Prequalify CFCO concessionaires            March 1996                  January 1997
Sign CFCO concession                       January 1997                Not done
Post and telecom      Select advisors of ONPT restructuring       August 1995                February 1996
Adopt development strategy for telecom     October 1995                June 1996
Call for bids for privatization            January 1996                January 1997
Begin negotiations                          May 1996                   Not done
Adopt texts for corporatization of Post    February 1996               Not done
Transfer liquidation of financial services to  March 1996              Not done
Comit6 de Restructuration des Banques
Water and electricity    Select advisors for SNE-SNDE concession  October 1995               November 1995
Prequalification bids                      January 1996                June 1996
Concession bids                            May 1996                    September 1996
Conclusion of negotiations for concession  August 1996                 Not done
contract
Hydrocarbons          Adopt privatization strategy                November 1995              April 1997
Prequalification bids                      January 1996                May 1997
Select new operator                        April 1996                  December 1997
Contract signature                         July 1996                   Not done
Clean-up of portfolio    Closing of38 liquidations                December 1995              September 1997
(partially done)
Closing of 6 liquidations                  March 1996                  September 1997
(partially done)
Liquidation of 6 non-viable enterprises    December 1996               December 1997
(partially done)
Liquidation of 7 non-viable enterprises    March 1996                  December 1997
(partially done)
Communication         Setting up advisors and cellule             August 1996                 September 1996
Program
Conduct "ground zero" poll                 November 1996               Not done
Results of polls of target groups           February 1996              Not done
May 1996
July 1996
Banks and Financial    Select cabinet to restructure CNSS/CRF     August 1995                Done 1996
institutions
Reinstate pension payments                  March 1996                 December 1996
13



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
n.a.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
No available data.
Table 8A: Project Costs*
Appraisal estimate             Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                    (US$ million)
Item                        Local   Foreign      Total   Local costs  Foreign       Total
costs     costs                             costs
1. Privatization and Sector Regulation               0.5        6.7         7.2     -
2. PE. Sector Liquidation                            0.3        0.5         0.8
3. Financial, Public & Legal Reforms                   -        1.1         1.1
4. Communication Campaign                            0.3        0.6         0.9
Total Baseline Costs                                 1.1        9.0        10.1
Physical Contingencies                               0.0        0.1         0.1
Price Contingencies                                  0.4        0.5         0.9
Total                                                1.5        9.5        11.0
* Due to a lack of information, actual costs could not be ascertained.
Table 8B: Project Financing*
Appraisal estimate              Actualllatest estimates
(US$ million)                     (US$ million)
Local costs  Foreign     Total   Local costs  Foreign      Total
costs                            costs
IDA                                             0.9         8.1       9.0                               2.96
Government                                      0.6         0.4       1.1         0.3                    0.3
AFD                                               -         0.9       0.9                    0.9         0.9
Total                                           1.5         9.5      11.0                               4.16
* Due to a lack of information, all actual costs could not be ascertained.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
n.a.
14



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant  Present   Original       Revised
Agreement   Section      Type      Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date        Date                       Description of Covenant                       Comments
C 27750
3.01(a)      5         CP                               The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the  Partially Complied
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, shall
carry out the Project through MEFPP, with due diligence and
efficiency, in conformity with appropriate administrative and
accounting practices, and with due regard to sound and
appropriate environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services, and other resources
required for the Project.
3.01(b)      5          C                               Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this  Complied
Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule
4 to this Agreement and with the Project Implementation Plan.
3.02(a)      5          C                               The Borrower shall: (a) until the completion of the Project, open  Complied
and maintain in a commercial Bank acceptable to the Association,
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, an account
(the Project Account) to be used exclusively to meet expenditures
under the Project;
3.02(b)      5         CD                               Deposit into the Project Account: (i) an initial deposit of CFAF  After delay
25,000,000; and (ii) the remaining amount of its counterpart    complied
contributions, quarterly in advance, to meet expenditures required
for the Project during each such quarter.
3.03        5         C                                Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of  Complied
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
3.04(a)      5          C                               For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:(a) prepare, on the
basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to
the Association not later than 6 months after the Closing Date or
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and association, a plan for the future operation of the
Project;
15



Covenant  Present   Original       Revised
Agreement   Section      Type      Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date        Date                       Description of Covenant                       Comments
3.04(b)      5          C                               Afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange     Complied
views with the Borrower on said plan.
4.01(a)      3          C                               The Borrower shall maintain, and shall cause to be maintained,  Not available
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with the
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
4.01(b)      3                                          The Borrower shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to  Not available
in paragraph (a) of this Section, including those for the Special
Account, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) fumish to
the Association, as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such audit period, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) fumish to the Association such other
information concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
4.01(c)      3                                          Without any limitation to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this  Not available
Section, the Borrower shall: (i) have the records and accounts for
the Special Account audited in accordance with said paragraph
(b), every four months during the first twelve months after the
Effective Date and every six months during the second twelve
months after the Effective Date; and (ii) fumish to the
Association, not later than two months after the end of the period
audited, a certified copy of the report of any such audit.
Covenant types:
1. = Accounts/audits                                         2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds                    4. = Counterpart funding
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing agency    6. = Environmental covenants
7. = Involuntary resettlement                                 8. = Indigenous people
9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting                       10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation  12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional action
13. = Other Present Status:
C = covenant complied with        CD = complied with after delay    CP = complied with partially      NC = not complied with
16



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                    Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1. N.A.
* Not available
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                     Actual
Stage of project cycle            Weeks    USs'000          Weeks      US$'000
Through appraisal                              n.a. *      n.a.             36.9          92.2
Appraisal 4Board                                    8.6      19.7            6.6           13.6
Supervision through completion                    119.5    257.3          123.12         296.4
Total                                       128.1    277.0         166.62          402.2
*Not available
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating'    Type of
Stage of project cycle    Month/    No. of  Days in    Specialization     Implem. Develop.           Peof
Year       Persons   Field                       Status   Objectives
Through Appraisal      06/1995         7        20   TTL, Peer Reviewer,
Lawyer, Disburs.
Analyst, Financial
Analyst, Consultant
Appraisal through       12/1995                 14   TTL
Board approval
Supervision            04/1996         2                                      HS          HS
Mid-term review         03/1997        2        8    Sr. Operations Officer,   S           S
Economist
Completion
'I    S: satisfactory
HS: highly satisfactory
17



Appendix A
Agence FranVaise de Developpement's Contribution to the ICR
18



AGENCE FRANCAISE
DE DEVELOPPFMENT
5. RUE RO LAND BARTH ES
75598 PARIS c9dex 12
T rELEX      2 8 1 8 7 1 F
FAX           01 44 87 99 39
/ rovt errtmtPt                                     FAX INT. +33 1 44 87 99 39
TEL           01 53 44 31 31
TEL INT7.   33 1 53 44 31 31
II                                         FFAX  N'      5
E M  E T T E  U  R   G O B IF 1 B                                            PARIS,  LE
DE  LA  PART  DE   Claude DORWLING - CARTER                                 2 7 /0 1 12 0 0 0
NUMERO DE FAX  0153443863
NUMERO DE TEL  Q1 53443979
D E S T I N A T A I R E   Banque Mondiale
Groupe sectuer Prive - R6gion Afrique
A L'ATTENTION  DE    M.PaulLIGNIERES                                               J.-L.
NUMERO  APPELE    (202)4776391
N O  M  B  R E    D E    P A  G E  S, I   P A G  E    +
Ref : Votre lettre du 21 janvier 2000.
Objet: Projet d'appui a la privatigation et au renforcement des capacites
Cr6dit 2775-COR -- Rapport d'achevement
Monsieur,
Par lettre en reference, vous avez souhaitA recueillir tes commentaires de l'AFD sur le projet de rapport
d'achevement du Proet d'appui a la privatisation et su renforcement des capacites accord6 par la Banque
Mondiale i la Republique du Congo
Comme il est mentionne dans ce rapport, "'troite collaboration qul a pr&valu entre nos deux etablissements, des
1'identfication du projet, a cree les conditions favorables d'une poursuite, sous financement de I'AFD, des
actions engagees prealablement aux evenemernts de juin 1997; evenements dont l'une des consequences a ete
la suspension puis a'annulation du projet d'appu finance par la Banque.
Concernant le ddroulement du projet, nous partageons globa(ement les appreciations formul6es sur les
differentes phases du projtet.
A ce jour, l'AFD continue, par le financement de consultarts. A appuyer le gouvernement dans sa reflexion sur ia
privatisation des socities de telecommunications, d'lectricite et d'eau. Las consultants ont remis leurs rapports
maLs le gouvemement n'a pas encore opte les modes de privatisation.
Cependant, les recentes decisions gouvernementales concernant la MAB et I'ATC pourraient fragiliser la
credibl1ite acquise par le gouvernement aupr4s des investisseurs,
Je vous prie d'agreer, Monsieur. 'expression de mes salutations distinguees
19



