Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6654-COB
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 5.8 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF CONGO
FOR A
PRIVATIZATION AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
JULY 25, 1995
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Ct!RRENCY EqU1I'ALENTS
Currencv unit  CFAF
Current: I US5            =      480.00 CFAF
Average for 1994: lUS$           556.46 CFAF
Average for 1993: 1US$    =      283.16 CFAF
Average for 1992: 1USS    =      264.69 CFAF
WEIGHTS AND NIEASURES
Metric Tons (MT)
Kilometer (km)
ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB         African Development Bank
ATC          Agence Transcongolaise des Communications
BEAC         Banque des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale
BCC          Banque Commerciale Congolaise
BIDC         Banque Internationale du Congo
CAR          Central African Republic
CCA          Caisse Congolaise d'Amortissement
CCE          Commission de Coordination Economique
CCP          Centre de Cheques Postaux
CFA          Communaute Financiere Africaine
CFCO         Chemin de Fer Congo-Ocean
CFD          Caisse Francaise de Developpement
CNE          Caisse Nationale d'Epargne
COBAC        Commission Bancaire de 1'Afrique Centrale
CORAF        Congolaise de Raffinage
CRC          Credit Rural du Congo
DCO          Direction du Contr6le et des Operations
DGH          Direction Generale des Hydrocarbures
EIB          European Investment Bank
ERC          Economic Recovery Credit
ESAF         Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GOC          Government of Congo
HC           Hydro-Congo
IDA          International Development Association
IGE          Inspection Generale de l'Etat
LPG          Liquified Petroleum Gas
MEFPP        Ministere de i'Economie, des Finances charge du Plan et de la Prospective
MUCODEC  Mutelles Congolaises d'Epargne et de Credit
ONPT         Office National des Postes et Telecommunications
PARESO       Programme d'Appui a la Relance Economique et Sociale
PE           Public Enterprise
PPN          Port de Pointe-Noire
SDR          Special Drawing Rights
SPCP         Secretariat Permanent du Comite de Privatisation
SNDE         Societe Nationale de Distribution d'Eau
SNE          Socit6 Nationale d'Electricite
UCB          Union Congolaise de Banques
UDEAC        Union Douaniere des Etats d'Afrique Centrale
VNPTF        Voies Navigables, Ports et Transports Fluviaux
FISCAL YEAR
Januarv I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
PRIVATIZATION AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                           Republic of Congo
Implementing Agencies:              Secretariat of the Privatization Committee
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Ministry of Justice
Ministry of Hydrocarbons
Ministry of Industry
Beneficiary:                        Not Applicable
Poverty:                            Not Applicable
Amount:                             SDR 5.8 million (US$ 9.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                              Standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years
Commitment Fee:                     0.50% on undisbursed credit balances,
beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver
Onlending Terms:                    Not Applicable
Financing Plan:                     See Schedule A
Net Present Value:                  Not Applicable. However, expected benefitsl from the project
in terms of revenue increases and budgetary savings are
estimated at over CFAF 20 billion per year, compared to total
project cost of CFAF 5.5 billion over three years.
Staff Appraisal Report:             None
Maps:                               None
See Public Enterprise Sector Review (Report No. 13755-COB, 1994)
|Thlis docurnent has a restrictcd distribution and may be used by recipicnts only in the perfonmance of thcir l
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.l






REPUBLIC OF CONGO
PRIVATIZATION AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Memorandum   and  Recommendation  of the President ........................................................1
Schedule A.  Estimated Costs and Financing Plan .....................................................8
Schedule B.  Procurement Methods and Disbursements ...............................................9
Schedule C.  Timetable of Key Project Processing Events ......................................... 10
Schedule D.  Status of Bank Group  Operations in Congo  ...................                               ....................... 11
Schedule E.  Letter of Development Policy .........................................................    14
Technical Annex ..........................................................I
Section  A.  Economic and Financial Aspects of the Public Enterprise Sector ..............................1
Section  B.  Detailed  Project Description ..........................................................4
1.  Project Description ..........................................................4
Section  C.  Project Costs and Administration                         ......................................................... 11
1.   Project Costs ......................................................... 11
Il. Procurement ......................................................... 12
III. Disbursement Procedures                              .......................................... 13
IV. Accounts Management and Audits .........................................................                                15
Section  D.  Project Management and Implementation ......................................................... 17
1.   Project Management .........................................................                                           17
II.  Project Implementation Plan .........................................................                                  17
III. Reporting  Requirements .........................................................                                      17
IV. Supervision .........................................................                                                   18
V.  Mid-Term  Review  ..........................................................                                            18



Table of Contents - Technical Annex (cont'd)
Schedule I:         Restructuring of ATC:  Actions, Anticipated Results, and Schedule .............. 19
Schedule II:    Railway Concession Contract Strategy and Schedule ................................ 22
Schedule III:   Restructuring of ONPT:  Actions, Anticipated Results, and Schedule ......                                   ...... 23
Schedule IV:  Restructuring of SNE and SNDE: Actions, Anticipated Results,
and Schedules . .................................................................... 25
Schedule V:  Restructuring of Hydro-Congo Privatization: Actions, Anticipated Results,
and Schedule . .................................................................... 27
Schedule VI:   Public Enterprises in Government Portfolio:  Classification and Action Plan .... 28
Schedule VII:  Detail of Project Costs ................................................................... 30
Schedule VIII: List of Project Activities and Procurement Procedures                                          .         .           31
Schedule IX:   Project Execution Plan and Anticipated Project Results .........                                 .................... 32
Schedule X:    Project Supervision Plan  ................................................................. 41
Schedule XI:   Project Structure .....................................................................                            42
Schedule XII:  Privatization Committee Secretariat:  Organization Chart .......................... 43
Schedule XIII: Project Status:  Performance Indicators ................................................ 44



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF CONGO FOR A
PRIVATIZATION AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Congo for SDR 5.8 million, the equivalent of US$9.0 million,
on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years, to help finance a privatization and capacity
building project.
2.     COUNTRY BACKGROUND. In January 1994, Congo devalued its currency by 50%, along with
all other CFA Franc zone countries. This opened up new perspectives for the country and constituted
a major move towards redefining the country's economic program aimed at: (a) eliminating the budget
deficit; and (b) laying the foundation for private sector-led growth through reform of the legal and
institutional framework and returning the productive sectors to private control. The IMF supported
this program with a 12-month Stand-by arrangement on May 27, 1994, and the Bank declared Congo
IDA-eligible and supported a first phase economic recovery program through a US$100 million
Economic Recovery Credit2 (ERC, Cr. 2635-COB, June 1994). As of end-1994, key structural
measures designed to prepare the ground for deeper transformation of the economy and reduction in
the public sector were implemented. These include the enactment of a new legal and institutional
framework for privatization (Law 21-94, Decree 94.602, and creation of a technical secretariat of the
privatization committee); agreement with key stakeholders (labor unions, public enterprise (PE)
management and technical ministries) on the path and pace of reform for the largest PEs; an increase in
public service tariffs; and the adoption of a new upstream hydrocarbons code that eliminates Hydro-
Congo's monopoly over exploration rights, clarifies the institutional and regulatory framework, and
improves the fiscal system. Since its enactment, two major oil companies -- Shell and Chevron -- have
entered the market. On the other hand, the financial sector is poorly managed and must be
strengthened if it is to support business effectively. Lastly, under the program, Congo has cleared its
arrears to IBRD and the AfDB, and met a large part of its obligations to the Paris Club creditors.
Bilateral agreements have also been concluded or are under discussion with other bilateral and official
creditors, including Russia. Lately, the program experienced shortfalls in non-oil revenues because of
ad hoc implementation of UDEAC reforms and expenditure overruns for security purposes.
3.    In early 1995, the Fund helped the authorities re-design a new program predicated on: (a)
settlement of the strike culture which grew during the period of uncertainty and a reduction of salaries
by 25%; (b) the restructuring of the capital budget to avoid use of oil-tied resources; (c) the
implementation of administrative and tax measures to enhance revenue mobilization; and (d) the
restructuring of contractual arrangements with oil companies. Implementation of this new program and
securing financial assurances were to allow the authorities to request a 6 month extension of the Stand-
by arrangement. In the meantime, Congo became eligible for ESAF resources on May 29. 1995. A
Fund mission in June 1995, assessed the measures taken to reduce the wage bill, broaden the tax base,
and strengthen tax administration. It concluded that on the expenditure side, Government has adopted
2 A bridge loan from France enabled Congo to clear its arrears with Lhe Bank, which then could disburse Lhe
ERC.



three measures -- all made retroactive to April I -- that could lower the wage bill to an estimated
CFAF 109 billion in 1995, and to CFAF 103 billion on an annual basis. These comprise: (a) a 12.5 %
reduction in the work week, matched by a corresponding reduction in the salaries of civil servants
other than security forces, teachers, and diplomats; (b) a cut of 30% applied to about half the fringe
benefits; and (c) a cut of 15% in base salary for all employees earning more than CFAF 50,000 a
month. On the revenue side, the authorities have issued or adopted most of the decrees and circulars
needed to implement the measures agreed under the program, although effective implementation of
some of these measures has been delayed. Nonetheless, preliminary data indicate that there was a
vigorous recovery in tax collections during the second quarter of 1995; they averaged close to CFAF
11 billion a month (up from CFAF 8 billion in the first quarter and compared with objectives of CFAF
10 billion for the period), and close to CFAF 12 billion per month in the second semester.
4.     For the remainder of 1995, Government is committed to continuing implementation of its
program with emphasis on three critical elements: (a) civil service reduction; (b) elimination of
transfers to public enterprises; and (c) establishment of a solid commercial banking system. The Letter
of Development Policy presented by Government in the context of the proposed operation will serve as
an input for preparing a policy framework paper (PFP) for the period 1996-98, scheduled for
discussion with the Bank and the IMF during the fall.
5.     ISSUES AND CONSTRAINTS IN THE PE SECTOR. The Public Enterprise Sector Review (Report
No. 13755-COB, 1994) concluded that only 43 of the 104 Governrment-owned or controlled enterprises
were still in operation. These 104 PEs accounted for about 30% of GDP and employed over 28,000
people, equivalent to about a quarter of formal sector employmnent. Six major PEs dominate, having over
13,000 workers and generating total revenues of CFAF 141 billion (17 % of GDP). The others account for
approximately 15,000 jobs, and most are small-scale, employing fewer than 200 workers. Most of the PEs
have accumulated losses since their inception, and are now technically insolvent. They have high fixed
costs and cannot cover operating costs because of low capacity utilization, overstaffing and inefficiency.
The sector review identified the following major constraints: (a) frequent interference by oversight
ministries; (b) price controls with prices set below cost; (c) lack of commercial orientation and
financial discipline; (d) an inadequate organizational and regulatory framework; (e) ascendancy
exercised by labor unions over PEs; and (f) inadequate investment, business, and labor codes. An
onigoinig loan (Ln. 2868-COB) provides support to Government for the divestiture program and will be
complemented by the proposed credit, which will help complete the divestiture/liquidation program. Its
successful implementation is expected to yield substantial benefits estimated by the Public Enterprise
Sector Review (Vol. II) in depth and summarized in key areas in paras. 20 and 21 below.
6.     ISSUES AND CONSTRAINTS IN THE FINANCIAL SECTOR. The finanicial sector comprises three
commercial banks, a rural credit bank, a network of mutual savings and credit cooperatives
(MUCODECs3), a postal bank and a national savings institution. Other financial institutions include social
security agencies and insurance firms. The central bank, BEAC, is shared with five other countries and is
supported by a banking supervisory agency, COBAC. As of end-1994, assets of the commercial banks
totaled CFAF 151.2 million of which UCB and BIDC accounted for 63% and 35% respectively. These
two banks also hold approximately similar proportions of total deposits of CFAF 86.2 billion. The banking
sector provides CFAF 77.1 billion of credit to the economy. The financial sector is in great difficulty and
commercial banks are insolvent due to problems identified in a 1994 financial sector review: (a) little
competition and large Government arrears to commercial banks and other financial institutions;
(b) overvhelming Government ownership and management of banks; (c) an inadequate commercial law and
3 Mutuelles Congolaises d'Epargne et de Cr6dit
2



adjudication, as well as inconsistency between Congolese laws and the regional banking treaties; and (d) an
inadequate regulatory framework for the insurance sector and for the MUCODECs.
7.     PUBLIC EXPENDITURE PROGRAM (PEP/PIP) ISSUES AND CONSTRAINTS. The Government
budget deficit (excluding grants) for 1994 amounted to 12.8% of GDP. Total expenditures were CFAF
345 billion, of which the wage bill represented 38%, debt service 35% and capital outlays a mere 8%.
Clearly, the wage bill and external debt continue to be major burdens. The 1994 public expenditure review
concluded that the highest potential impact on the deficit is most likely to result from efforts to compress
salaries, transfers and debt service reduction in agreement with official creditors as part of a comprehensive
reform program, while boosting tax revenues and custom duties.
8.     PROJECT OBJECTIVES. The project aims at fuirthering the capacity of Government to prepare
and implement the second phase of its reform program started under the ERC. It will support the
divestiture of public enterprises, introduce a competitive environment in the utility and petroleum
sectors and facilitate private sector development. It will also assist the Government in taking upfront
actions prior to the private sector adjustment program to be supported by an IDA credit in FY 96.
More specifically, the project will: (a) help the Government prepare regulatory frameworks for the five
major public enterprises in control of petroleum distribution, transportation, telecommunications,
power and water distribution and open the sectors up to competition progressively; (b) conduct the
privatization of these major public enterprises; (c) liquidate other non-viable PEs; and finally
(d) support regulation and competition in the financial sector and reforms in banking institutions.
9.     PROJECT DESCRIPTION. To reach these objectives, the following components have been
identified and agreed with Government:
(a)  Regulation and Privatization (US$7.8 million). This component will provide consultant
services to: (i) prepare pro-competition regulatory frameworks and build a minimal level
of public sector capacity to regulate the telecommunications, petroleum, power, water,
and transport sectors; and (ii) advise Government on privatization of the five concerned
public enterprises. The component will support the technical Secretariat of the
Privatization Committee in charge of coordinating the program and outsourcing to the
private sector for audits, sectoral specialists and legal advice. The selection of advisors
for the regulatory frameworks and privatization has been initiated by the Government for
all five companies;
(b)  PE Sector Liquidation (US$0.9 million). Under this component, assistance will be
provided to liquidate all non-viable enterprises (57, as identified in the Technical Annex)
and complete suspended liquidations. Liquidations will be contracted out to qualified
private firms, and technical assistance will be provided to the Ministry of Justice for
proper monitoring and supervision of the liquidators. An action plan for liquidation and
divestiture of remaining public enterprises as well as performance indicators were agreed
during appraisal;
(c)  Reform of Financial Institutions and the Public Sector (US$1.2 million). A Japanese
grant of US$0.5 million is financing the development of proposals for restructuring the
financial sector. Audits, debt restructuring and liquidation/privatization planis for an
insurance company and several banks (BIDC, UCB, CRC) are underway. Under this
component, a secretariat for the bank restructuring committee will be established. Support
3



will also be provided for a roundtable on Justice and Financial Institutions which should lead
to proposals for legal reform of financial institutions. The supervision of insurance
companiies by the Ministry of Finance will also be strengthened and a financial restructuring
plan for the social security agency prepared. The Inspection Generale de l'Etat (IGE) will
he supported to plan the next round of civil service departures. In addition, the
Secretariat General du Gouvernement will be supported with the establishment of a
computerized data base of existing legislation; and
(d)  Communications Campaign (US$ 1.1 million). The project will finance a public
information campaign to inform the stakeholders and the public of the benefits and
implications of the reform program and promote public understanding, support and
participation in the transition to a market-driven economy.
10.   PROJECT FINANCING. The total cost of the project is estimated at US$11.0 million. IDA will
provide a credit of US$9.0 million and Government will contribute counterpart funds equivalent to
US$1.1 million. There will be parallel financing by the Caisse Frangaise de Developpement (CFD) in
the amount of US$0.9 million. Government has also agreed to budget the resources required to pay
separation packages for redundant PE employees. The downsizing program will be based on a detailed
PE employee survey conducted in February 1995, as well as revisions of the labor and social security
codes and negotiations with affected parties.
11.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION. The privatization law and decrees adopted under the ERC and
the existing liquidation law provide for an adequate institutional and legal framework for satisfactory
implementation of all components of the project. Execution of privatization and liquidation activities
will be outsourced to private firms who would contribute to strengthening local professional capacity in
the private sector. The Secretariat of the Privatization Committee, which has prepared the project, will
be responsible for implementation of the privatization component, while a temporary unit in the
Ministry of Justice will be responsible for the liquidation component and a Project Coordinator will be
appointed to administer the credit. The Privatization Secretariat and Liquidation Unit will be helped
by two full-time advisors working in tandem. A project management software program was used to
plan all project activities and generate a detailed implementation plan, as well as milestones for
targeted achievements. Subsequently, the Government agreed with IDA on monitoring and reporting
procedures for project implementation.
12.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY. Government is committed to implementation of the reform
program, as evidenced by the fact that most of the measures were proposed during the National
Conference (with the participation of all political groups), and actual implementation began under the
ERC. Adoption by Parliament of the upstream hydrocarbons code, the privatization law, the creation
of a banking sector restructuring committee, and last but not least, the outsourcing of the privatization
and liquidation processes are further evidence of Government's commitment and should guarantee
transparency and timely implementation of the project. As the State disengages from enterprises and
concentrates on its economic, regulatory, and policy role, the private sector will take greater
responsibility, and continuity and sustainability will be strengthened by market forces and open
competition. TIhe close involvement of Congolese officials and private sector representatives in the
project design and implementation through their participation in the Privatization Committee is
expected to ensure ownership and increase sustainability of the reforms.
4



13.    LESSONS FROM PREVIOUS BANK INVOLVEMENT. Recognition of the need for far-reachiiig
reform started in 1987, with privatization and liquidation being acknowledged *or the first time. as
relevant policy tools. The Bank provided support through three successive operations - SAL I and t\%o
Technical Assistance projects (Ln. 2753-COB and the ongoing Ln. 2868-COB) -- under the irmpuisior
of which some 20 PEs were placed in receivership or closed. However, under union pressure many
continued to operatw. Failure of that reform is attributable to several factors: (a) little brJoad support
from stakeholders and the population; (b) a leadership limited to a few vulnerabie refornmers vho vvere
soon swept aside; (c) lack of a clear financial and personnel strategy for dealing with lay-offs; and td)
continuing wide-spread belief in central planning and State control. Nonetheless, valuable diagnostiC
and re-structuring studies were carried out, notably for Hydro-Congo, and are still relevant tock-y., as
confirmed by the Public Enterprise Sector Review that served as a basis for oreparabtio lf the
proposed operation. This experience and lessons from other countries demonstrate what tor enterpi is-
restructuring/privatization programns to be effective, a country should: (a) trn to quickly achtieve a
critical mass of systemic reforms which are necessary for the return to a stable macl'oeco..onolM
framework; (b) tackle upfront those enterprises with the highest imipact on tl.e econonmy, anid (1u.
inmplement a communications as well as a social safety net strategy.
14.    RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT. The project is consistenf with the Coun[l  Assistance
Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Board on June 28, 1994, concurrently with the ERC_. 1tie Bank
Group's assistance strategy for FY95-97 focuses on supporting the Government's program  n tfour
areas: (a) improving public resource management through public finance andl public enterprise
reforms; (b) strengthening the country's production capacity through trade and regulatoiy reAonns, ic
removing impediments to private sector activities; and (d) developing human resources andl reuicug
poverty. The proposed project will help achieve the objectives of the CAS hy enabling prog ress ia
eliminating monopolies and in privatization ot state-owned enterprises in key sectors on the econtniv,
which would be crucial for phasing out inefficient production and cutting back the fiscal nurden ot
support to inefficient enterprises, as well as encouraging private initiatives. More specificaPwy, iine
project will contribute to containing public expenditures and generating outp.lt on a competitive- basis,
hence, leading to increased economnic activity which, in turn, would improve the country's fragile
fiscal situation. It will also contribute to alleviating pover-ty by reducing the pressure of orntertrke so
the budget, thereby freeing resources for key social programs, and providing a strong impetus tt,
broad-based private sector-driven growth. Finally, potential investors and donrcors haie i:,dicated thdt
the Bank's continued involvement in Congo is essential to assist in designing and impleinenting
policies and regulations that emphasize comrpetition and good governance an'(. guarantee t!aiy:oar. n
in the privatization process.
15.    AGREED ACTIONS. During appraisal, agreement was reached on: (a) the broadening 
Government's Letter of Sector Developmenit to indicate progress since the, ERC and to speli uou th-
agenda for the proposed SAC, both on structural reform and fiscal policy; (b) a list 4f PEs to b
liquidated with timetable; (c) the privatizationi of processing of these liquidations, (d) tlhe phasuig o.
project activities, as well as the setting of milestones for targeted achievements; (e) ftnal
implementation arrangements for all components, taking into account the need5 for various skil.s; and
(f) disbursement, accounting, auditing and procurement procedures and reporting requiremeoirs, O)jjing
negotiations, the Government's Declaration ot Developmunrt Policy was examined and lsubsc,--enio. a
letter summarizing its key features *vas ofticially transmitted to the Bank. Agieemein was kko Teaned
with Government to include assessments of thle environmnental impact ot privatization an smc terms ot
reference of privatization consultants. FinaJV-, it was agrcd that the cor :lition for eflc,- i: {8^, is the
signature of a pluri-annual contra,ct withan n ai.-liing fimr; accptanle to iDA  i u;r  iu s.t audiu;



16.   ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS. As it emphasizes institutional reform, the project is not expected
to cause environmental problems. Consequentiy, it will be placed in the Category "C" and does not
require an environmental assessment. Nonetheless, terms of reference for regulation consultants for
the petroleum sector require that they assess the environmental impact of privatization, prepare terms
of reference for an environmental audit of the sector, and make provisions for environmental concerns
in the regulatory framework. During project negotiations, agreement was reached with Government to
extend this requirement to the power and water sectors. In addition, an environmental specialist is
included in the project supervision team and all the regulatory frameworks will be reviewed by the
Region's Environmental Unit prior to their adoption by Government. For future follow-up on
adherence to environmental regulation, the Government confirmed, during negotiations, that it will
rely on contracts with internationally reputed environmental auditors.
17.   COORDINATION WITH DONORS. The AfDB and CFD have been closely associated with the
re-establishment of dialogue with Congo and in the preparation of the proposed project. IFC has been
consulted on matters relating to the restructuring of local banks and will be sought as an investor in the
privatized enterprises. The IMF has also been closely associated, particularly on the budgetary
implications of the lay-offs, for which Government has agreed to build a social safety net with annual
allocation of budgetary resources that will be provided as counterpart funds to the proposed adjustment
credit.
18.   PROJECT OBJECTIVE CATEGORIES. The project will contribute to improvement of the public
sector, but more importantly, to laying the foundation for the return to a stable macroeconomic
environment, a pre-condition for private sector development. More specifically, it will contribute to
the following Bank Group objectives: (a) economic management; (b) private sector development; and
(c) local capacity building.
19.   PARTICIPATORY APPROACH. Stakeholders were involved in the establishment of a
transparent framework for privatization transactions. A seminar on privatization methods, issues and
experiences was organized by the Bank for the Privatization Committee (including representatives of
the different political groups and unions) to ensure a shared understanding of the objectives, the
process and its benefits. A joint review of the PE sector and its constraints was also carried out; its
results were widely disseminated and discussed with many groups, including labor unions and the
private sector. An evaluation of social costs was conducted and preparation of lay-off plans launched
in order to overcome potential stakeholder resistance to the divestiture program.
20.   PROJECT BENEFITS. The operation is opportune as it buttresses Government's efforts to re-
establish credibility as a major effort following devaluation just over a year ago. Moreover, it would
reduce the financial drain of the public sector and the PEs on the State, and eventually increase fiscal
revenues through improved services and private sector financing of infrastructure for the water, power,
telecommunications, and hydrocarbon sectors. The project's successful implementation will increase
economic activity and household revenues through enhanced availability of power, water and improved
transportation services, will help restore the confidence of foreign private investors in Congo,
reinforcing Government's efforts to attract private capital and strengthen the financial sector, and
produce a demonstration effect for adjustment.
21.   QUANTIFICATION OF PROJECT COSTS AND BENEFITS. Although as a capacity building
operation, no formal cost/benefit analysis was carried out, the Public Enterprise Sector Review
provides indications of the financial and economic costs and benefits of the project. Overall financial
6



costs of the project are estimated at CFAF 5.5 billion (US$ 11.0 million) over 3 years. Overall
financial benefits are estimated in excess of CFAF 20 billion (US$ 4 million) each year in terms of
revenue increases and budgetary savings. Some of the financial benefits of the project will be derived
from: (a) improving fiscal revenues from the petroleum sector by an estimated CFAF 5 billion per
year currently not collected by the Treasury; and (b) eliminating the drain on the Treasury from loss-
making pilot PEs estimated at CFAF 15 billion annually for the five major PEs. These financial
benefits to the budget also, of course, yield economic benefits. The value of the latter depends on the
assumptions made about the premium on public income in Congo. For the CFAF 20 billion a year
worth of positive impact on the budget to translate into economic benefits of the order of CFAF 3-5
billion a year does not require unreasonable assumptions; if anything, the bottom end of this range
would perhaps be an estimate on the conservative side. Economic benefits will be obtained by:
(i) reducing economic inefficiencies which for the hydrocarbon sector alone are estimated at CFAF 7
billion in needless overheads; and (ii) in the power sector, decreasing technical and non-technical
losses by approximately 50%.
22.    RISKS. Based on previous experience with Congo and the fragile political situation prevailing
in the country (the history of stability and democracy in Congo is decidedly short), the major risk is
political because of the electoral cycle. The window of opportunity for implementing significant
privatization decisions would narrow by late 1996, when elections are due. This risk is mitigated by
the prevailing consensus on the need for reform, shared by all political groups, and ratified by the
National Conference of 1992. This risk is also mitigated by the clear lack of any alternatives to
credibility other than through improving provision of basic services after the demonstrated bankruptcy
of previous policies. Moreover, this risk is being minimized through early actions as noted above, and
close monitoring through appropriate indicators.
23.    RECOMMENDATION. I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
Washington, D.C.
July 25, 1995
Attachments
7






1a1-.i^I1ViO Ul UA; iay-Uiss. Lur wnicn uovernment nf2 ncyr
Schedule A
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
PRIVATIZATION AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Estimated Project Costs
(US$ million equivalent)
Project Components                              Local   Foreign   Total    % Foreign   % Total
Exchange      Base
Costs
A. Privatization and Sector Regulation
1. Privatization of Pilot PEs
a. ATC                                           -      1.4      1.4         100         14
b. SNE-SNDE                                      -      1.1      1.1         100         11
c. HYDROCONGO                                    -      1.1      1.1         100         11
d. ONPT                                          -       1.1     1.1         100         11
2. Regulation
a. Hydrocarbons                               0.0       0.5     0.5           95         5
b. Telecom, Water and Electricity             0.0       0.5     0.5          95          5
c. Transport                                  0.0       0.5     0.5          95          5
3. Support to CP/ST & Project Management         0.4      0.5      0.9          57          9
Subtotal Privatization and Sector Regulation       0.5       6.7     7.2          93         72
B. PE Sector Liquidation                           0.3       0.5     0.8          63          8
C. Financial, Public & Legal Sector Reforms
1. Legal Component                               0.0      0.1     0.1           87          1
2. Secretariat of CRB                              -      0.1      0.1         100          1
3. Strengthening Insurance Control Direction       -      0.1      0.1         100          1
4. Strengthening of IGE                            -      0.3      0.3         100          3
5. CNSS/CRF Restructuring                          -      0.5      0.5         100          5
Subtotal Financial, Public & Legal Reforms           -       1.1     1.1          98         11
D. Communication Campaign                          0.3       0.6     0.9          66          9
Total BASELINE COSTS                               1.1       9.0    10.1          89        100
Physical Contingencies                          0.0       0.1     0.1           74          1
Price Contingencies                             0.4       0.5     0.9           56         9
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                1.5       9.5    11.0          86        109
B. Financing Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
Sources                Local              Foreign               Total
IDA                       0.9                 8.1                 9.0
Government                0.6                 0.4                 1.1
CFD                       -                   0.9                 0.9
TOTAL                     1.5                 9.5                11.0
Note: Components may not add up to total because of rounding.
8



Schedule B
I'age I of I
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
PRIVATIZATION AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
PROCUREMENT METHODS AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. Procurement Methods
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Project Element                           ICB              Other             Total Cost
1. Office Equipment and Vehicles          0.6               0.3                 0.9
(IDA)                                 (0.6)             (0.3)               (0.9)
2. Consultant Services and Training                         9.0                 9.0
(IDA)                                                   (8.1)               (8.1)
(CFD)                                                   (0.9)               (0.9)
3 Operating Cost                                            1.1                 1.1
TOTAL                                     0.6              10.4                11.0
(IDA)                                 (0.6)             (8.4)               (9.0)
(CFD)                                                   (0.9)               (0.9)
B. Disbursement by Category
(US$ million equivalent)
Category                                      Amount of Credit      % of Expenditure to be
(US$ Million)             Financed
1. Office Equipment and Vehicles                    0.9                      100
2. Consultant Services and Training                  8.1                     100
TOTAL                                        9.0                     100
C. Estimated Bank Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million equivalent)
IDA Fiscal Year       96             97              98             99
Annual                2.5            3.8             1.8            0.9
Cumulative            2.5            6.3             8.1            9.0
9



Schedule C
Page 1 of I
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
PRIVATIZATION AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
a) Time taken to prepare:                        9 months
b) Prepared by:                                  Government and IDA
c) First Preparation Mission:                    November 1994
d) Pre-appraisal Mission:                        March  1995 (at headquarters with a delegation from  Congo)
e) Appraisal Mission:                            June 1995
f) Date of Negotiations:                         July 1995
g) Planned Date of Effectiveness:                October 1995
h) List of relevant ICRs/PPARs:    ICR - Second Technical Assistance Project (Ln 2753-CG)
ICR - Technical Assistance Project (Ln. 2285-CG)
ICR - River Transport Project (Cr. II 79-CG)
PPAR - Structural Adjustment Program Project (Ln. 2866-CG)
PPAR - Second Railway Project (Ln. 1228-CG, Cr 1047-CG)
This report was prepared on the basis of a series of missions, including those for the Public Enterprise Sector Review. The pre-appraisal
was conducted in Washington, D.C. during the visit of the delegation from Congo following the privatization seminar. Appraisal mission
members included: MessrsJ/Mmes Demba Ba (Task Manager, AF31E), Andre Ryba (Financial Component, AF31E), Anne Castle (Peer
Reviewer, PSD), Michel Layec (Energy, AF31E), Issam Abousleiman (Disbursement, LOAAF), Hans-Werner Wabnitz (Legal
Component, LEGAF), Shinichi Mori (PE liquidation, AF31E), Roger Christen (PE liquidation, Consultant), Moctar Thiam (Hydrocarbon,
Consultant), Kyra Cheremeteffand Richard Uku (Communication, Consultants). Mr. Pierre Guislain (PSD) is Lead Advisor and Mr.
Claude Sorel, (AFTPS) and Ms. Anne Castle, PSD) are Peer Reviewers. Mr. lain T. Christie is the Division Chief. Mr. Andrew P.
Rogerson is Department Director.
10



Schedule D
Page 1 of3
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
PRIVATIZATION AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
Summary Statement of Loans and Credits
(As of June 14, 1995)
Amount in US$ million
(less cancellation)
Loan or Credit    Fiscal    Borrower   Purpose              Bank    IDA       Undis-    Closing Date
No.               Year                                                        bursed
Loans
8 Loans closed                                            195.6               0.0
L22270             1983     Govt.       Third Highway        12.7               0.0      12/31/96
L22850             1983     Govt.       T.A.                 11.0               0.0      6/30/87
L22980             1983     Govt.       Wood Processing      11.2               0.0      6/30/88
L27530             1987     Govt.       T.A. II               3.3               0.0      12/31/90
L28680             1988     Govt.       P.E. Reform          15.2               4.0      12/31/95 (R)
Credits
10 Credits closed                                                    173.7     0.0
C10470            1980      Govt.       Railways II                   29.5      0.0      12/31/85
TOTAL              195.6    173.7      4.0
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA)              369.1
of which has been repaid                  152.3
Total now held by IBRD and IDA              216.8
Amount sold                                   0.0
of which repaid
Total undisbursed                             4.0
List of Closed SALs/SACs and Secals
Amount in US$ million
(less cancellation)
Loan or Credit    Fiscal    Borrower   Purpose              Bank    IDA       Undis-    Closing Date
No.               Year                                                        bursed
Loans
I Loan closed
L28660            1988      Govt.       SAL 1               70.0                 0.0     03/31/89
Credits
I Credit closed
C26350            1994      Govt.       ERC                          101.3       0.0     06/30/95
* Total approved, repayments, and outstanding balance represent both active and inactive loans and credits.
(R) indicates formally revised Closing Date.
The signing, effectiveness, and closing dates are based on the Loan Department official data and are not taken from
the Task Budget file.
11



Schedule D
Page 2 of 3
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
PRIVATIZATION AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
STATUS OF BANK PORTFOLIO
Bank activity during the period of non-accrual (September 1991-June 1994) was limited
to maintaining the macro-economic dialogue, preparing the way for the June 1994 ERC
which followed the restoration of accrual status. As a result, only one project -- Public
Enterprise Institutional Development Project (Ln. 2868-COB) -- remains in the portfolio.
The balance of funds (US$4.01 million) is committed to partial financing of management
assistance and to reinforcing the privatization committee and its technical secretariat.
Performance is rated satisfactory following successful implementation of a restructuring
action plan to improve project accounting and focus project activities on setting the
framework for divestiture. The ERC is fully disbursed, all conditions have being met prior
to Board presentation. An ICR is under preparation.
12



Schedule D
Page 3 of 3
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
PRIVATIZATION AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
Summary of IFC Investments
(As of May 31, 1995)
Original Gross Commitments           Held by IFC
US$ million
Fiscal Year     Company         Type of Business     IFC Loan       IFC Equity         Totals
1981            a/ Placongo     Paper                   3.50           -              3.50
1982            a/ Congo Pulp   Paper                    -             0.16           0.16
1985/86         CIT             Paper                   2.13           -              2.13            0.54
1987            CBIT            Paper                   1.86           0.27           2.13            2.29
Total gross commitments b/                              7.49           0.43            7.92
Less cancellations, terminations, repavment & sales      5.20          0.11            5.09
Total commitments now held                              2.29           0.54            2.83           2.83
Pending commitments
Elf Congo                              50.00                                         50.00
ENGEN Congo                            15.00          37.90          50.00          102.90
Total pending comnmitments                             65.00          37.90           50.00         152.90
Total commitments held and pending commitments         67.29          38.44           50.00         155.73
Total undisbursed commitments                            -              -              -              0.00
a! Investments which have been fully canceled, terminated, written-off, sold, redeemed, or repaid.
b/ Gross commitments consist of approved and signed projects.
c/ Held commitments consist of disbursed and undisbursed investments.
13



Schedule E
Page 1 of 5
MINISTERE DE L'ECONOMIE                                 REPUBLIQUE DU CONGO
ET DES FINANCES CHARGE                                      Unite-Travail-Progres
DU PLAN r-7 DE LA PROSPECTIVE
CABINET                                         Brazzaville le 24 Juillet 1995
N--n--------- 2-5 -6-MEFPP/CAB
LE MINISTRE
Objet: Declaration de polihque de developpement
Monsieur le President,
La persistance des rigidites structurelles au niveau de 1'economie Congolaise a
amend les Institutions financieres intemationales a geler le deblocage des decaissements
entre 1990 et 1994.
En 1994, le Congo devient eligible Ai lIDA du fait de la devaluation du franc CFA. Il
a saisi l'opportunite du renouement du dialogue avec la communaute intemationale pour
mettre en oeuvre un programme dont la base est constituee par le Programme d'Action et de
Relance Economique et Sociale (PARESO).
Ce prgraznme soutenu par la communaute financiere intemationale s'est fixe pour objectifs:
1. La stabilisation des finances publiques;
2. L'amelioration de I'6fficacite des services publics par une meilleure gestion des structures
administratives et des entreprises publiques;
3. La restauration des capacites productives de I'economie;
4. Le developpement des ressources humaines et la reduction de la pauvrete;
Le Gouvernement congolais pour marquer sa determination a reformer I'economie
s'est engage de fagon consequente dans la realisation du programme avec la Banque en
executant pour l1'ssentiel 1'ensemble des mesures convenues avant meme l'approbation de
son credit par le Conseil d'Administration .
Ces mesures sont detaill6es dans la Declaration de politique de developpement ci-
jointe adoptee par le Gouvemement congolais debut juillet 1995 et dont la presente lettre
constitue une svnthese.
II s'agit notamment des mesures concemant les finances publiques et des mesures
structurelles dont 1'execution satisfaisante a permis de fixer a moyen terme les chances de
reussite dans la realisation des perspectives de la Facilite d'Ajustement Structurel Renforce
(FASR) avec le FMI et du credit d'ajustement structurel avec la Banque.
Monsieur James D. WOLFENSOHN
President de la Banque Mondiale
WASHINGTON DC
14



Schedule E
Page 2 of 5
A- Mesures concernant les finances publiques
Ces mesures portent sur:
- La reduction de prbs de 11% des effectifs de la fonction publique;
- Le gel des salaires apres la devaluation du franc CFA;
- La reduction de la masse salariale de 12,5% lide a la reduction du temps de travail(35 heures par
semaine),de 15% liee a I'application des mesures du PARESO et de 30% des indemnites et primes;
- La suppression des exonerations et des regimes derogatoires;
- L'application anticipee de toutes les dispositions du programme regional de reformes fiscalo-
douanier de l'UDEAC;
- L'introduction de la taxe sur la consommatisn des produits petroliers;
- L'ajustement du fait de la devaluation du franc CFA des tarifs des services publics( eau,
6lectricitd,transports, produits petroliers);
- La signature d'une convention avec la Societe Gen6rale de Surveillance (SGS) comprenant:
1 le programme de verification des importations
2 le programme des exportations du bois
3 la securisation des recettes.
Ces mesures ont permis de reduire le deficit primaire de 23% du PIB en 1993 a 17% en
1994. Par ailleurs, la dette exterieure privee a ete reduite de 11 milliards de F CFA, tandis que le
service de la dette exterieure a ete honorei a hauteur de 104 milliards de F CFA en 1994 dont 96
milliards de mobilisations exterieures soit un flux net negatif de 8 milliards de F CFA.
Le Congo a en outre reussi a liquider les arri6res vis a vis de la Banque Mondiale, de la
Caisse Francaise de Developpement et de la Banque Africaine de Developpemen et a pu repondre a
ses obligations envers le Club de Paris; des accords bilat6raux ont ete conclus avec d'autres
membres du Club et les autres creanciers. Les negociations avec le Club de Londres se
poursuivent.
B Mesures structurelles
Ces mesures portent sur:
- La liberalisation du secteur petrolier amont par I'adoption du code des hydro-carbures. ce qui a
permis d'augmenter le nombre d'operateurs de 3 en 1993 a 7 en 1995;
- L'adoption d'une loi sur la privatisation( loi N 21/94 avec ses decrets d'application) et la mise en
place d'un cadre juridique et institutionnel;
- La creation d'un comite de restructuration du secteur financier;
- La resiliation du contrat de gestion de la raffinerie;
15



Schedule E
Page 3 of 5
- L'adoption avec les bailleurs de fonds des schemas et strategies de privatisation des grandes
entrepnses dans les domaines de l'eau, de l'electricite, des transports, des hydrocarbures et des
postes et teldcommunications;
- L'amrlioration du cadre et de l'environnement des affaires avec la creation en juillet 1995 du
Centre de formalites des entreprises( Guichet unique), la rdvision des codes du travail et des
investissements ainsi que l'eaboration d'un code de commerce;
- Le recencement des infrastructures de sante de Ireducation et 1'execution du plan de redeploiement
du personnel de l'education
C Perspectives
Avec 1'expiration du programme "Stand by" fin mai 1995, le Congo devenu eligible a la
Facilite d'Ajustement Structurel Renforce6(FASR) s'apprete a elaborer avec la Banque Mondiale et
le FMI un document cadre de politique economique (PFP).
Ce prograrnme a moyen terme devrait etre soutenu par un credit d'ajustement structurel de la
Banque et une FASR du FMI4 et autres baille-urs de fonds.
Le Congo va donc poursuivre son programme de reformes macro-economique et
structurelles commence depuis un an et demi afin de consolider les resultats deja obtenus en 1994.
a) la stabilisation des finances publipues
Les efforts d'amelioration des recettes non petrolieres seront poursuivis tandis que les
recettes petrolieres seront mieux suivies, ainsi que l'impact de l'evolution de la production grace au
modele informatise etabli par les services de la Banque au Ministere des Hydrocarbures. Les
societes de production feront l'objet d'un audit annuel.
En matiere des depenses, le Gouvemement soutiendra l'application des mesures visant la
reduction des depenses salariales amorcee en avril 1995 et qui vont s'etendre aux etablissements et
organismes autonomes et a d'autres postes de transferts.
Pour ce qui est de la dette, le Gouvernement Congolais va continuer a respecter ses
engagements vis-a-vis des bailleurs de fonds et recherchera avec eux des solutions novatrices a ce
probleme. Notons a cet effet qu'a la demande du Gouvernement, la Banque a marque son accord
sur l'examen de la reduction de la dette IDA dans le cadre de l'exercice fiscal actuel. L'audit de la
dette intnrieure et de la dette croisee avec les entreprises publiques sera actualise avant la fin de
l'annee 1995.
b) L'assainissement du portefeuille
Le Gouvemement va proceder a la cl6ture de la liquidation de 38 entreprises au 31 Decembre 1995,
a la liquidation de 6 entreprises non viables et a la privatisation de 30 entreprises transferees au
comite de privatisation. II restera 10 entreprises a tranferer au comite.
c) La Privatisation
-Transports:
Le secteur des transports contitue l'epine dorsale de I'economie. La strategie preconisee dans ce
secteur repose sur le recours au secteur prive pour les operations et les investissements, la
liberalisation des activites pour une meilleure concurrence. Les actions suivantes seront entreprises:
16



Schedule E
Page 4 of 5
a) mise en concession du chemin de fer, b) transformation des ports en societes anonymes,
c)privatisation des transports fluviaux, d) liquidation de ['Office Congolais de l'Entretien Routier
(I'execution des travaux d'entretien routier devant etre confide au pnve y compris des coopdratives
de personnel de l'OCER), e)privatisation des transports aeriens.
-Hydrocarbures:
L'objechtf du Gouvernement vise:
-En amont, a diversifier les operateurs par une liberalisation plus significative du secteur, a
amdliore les capacitds de l'Etat dans la gestion des richesses petrolieres . 11 s'agira notamment de
mettre en place une cellule de surveillance pour un meilleur suivi des quantites produites par
champs et exportees, et d'asseoire une fiscalitd qui puisse permettre I'accroissement des ressources,
de mettre en oeuvre une politique en matiere d'emploi et de retombde des investissements.
-En aval, a rdtablir un approvisionnement addquat du pays en produits pdtroliers a des cotlts
competitifs et s'assurer un flux positif du secteur pdtrolier aval en favorisant la participation du
secteur prive national a diffdrents niveaux de la chaine de distribution, a recentrer le role de l'Etat
sur la definition de politique sectorielle tarifaire et rdglementaire et enfin a introduire un systeme de
tarification qui tende vers la veritd des prix economiques.
-Eau ,Electricite:
L'objectif du Gouvernement vise a atteindre un equilibre financier des secteurs I travers une
politique de tarification adequate favorisant l'introduction du secteur prive dans la production , le
tranport, la distribution et les investissements. II s'agira dgalement d'amdliorer la qualitd des
prestations; la strategie du Gouvernement portera sur la mise en concession des services de l'eau et
de l'electriciti a des operateurs prives et la mise en place d'un cadre rdglementaire.
- Telecommunication:
L'objectif du gouvemement vise a doter le pays d'infrastructures modernes et adapt6es au
developpement de l'economie, notamment du secteur privd. La politique du Gouvernement portera
sur l'introduction de la concurrence favorisant l'investissement dans le secteur prive de base ainsi
que les services a valeur ajoutde tels que le cellulaire le sans fil et les transmissions des donndes.
Ainsi, l'ONP[ sera restructurd et les services de telecommunications seront liberalises et privatises.
- Secteur Financier
Un secteur financier efficace et sain est une condition ndcessaire au financement de l'investissement
privd, a la mobilisation de l'epargne et a l'existence d'un mdcanisme de paiement necessaire a toute
economie moderne.
Le secteur financier Congolais etant sinistrd, le Gouvernement s'efforcera a stabiliser
l'environnement par l'assainissement des finances publiques, et l'application de la reglementation
bancaire ( COBAC) et des assurances (CIMA) .11 devra egalement limiter la participation de l'Etat
dans  le  capital  des  institutions  financieres   a   20%,  restructurer  ,privatiser  les
Banques(UCB;BIDC;CRC) et achever la liquidation judicaire de la BNDC et la BCC. Des mesures
de titrisation seront ndcessaires au traitement de la dette du secteur. L'ARC dont le monopole a ete
leve sera privatisde ou liquidde.
- Filet social
Les institutions sociales devront etre restructurees dans les meilleurs ddlais pour bien prendre en
compte les cofits sociaux decoulant des privatisations.
Le Gouvemement reitablira un systeme de s6curit6 sociale viable capable d'honorer le paiement des
pensions. 11 devra egalement:
17



Schedule E
Page 5 of 5
- favoriser la reinsertion par des actions pilotes de promotion des PN4I et des micro-entreprises
- developper I'actionnariat national
- mettre en oeuvre une strategie de communication devant ameliorer la comprdhension des
reformes.
En  conclusion le Gouvemement conscient de la contribution vitale que le secteur prive peut
apporter au developpement economique du pays s'engage a poursuivre la realisation des retormnes
inscrites dans son programme et souhaite que la Banque le soutienne dans cette voie. 11 accorde un
vif interet au soutien de l'IDA dans le financement du projet d'appui a la privatisation et aux
reformes structurelles, d'autant plus que le prograrnme de privatisation s'attaque de maniere
prioritaire aux secteurs cles de l'conomie; ce qui confere aux reformes envisagees, un impact direct
et majeur sur la relance de l'economie congolaise.
OUNGA-NKOMBO
18












