Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2775 COB
Development Credit Agreement
(Privatization and Capacity Building Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 11, 1995
CREDIT NUMBER 2775 COB
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 11, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF CONGO (the Borrower) and  
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Association has received a letter from the Borrower, dated July 24, 
1995, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to reorganize, 
among other
things, its public enterprise sector (the Program), and declaring the Borrowerþs 
commitment to the execution of the Program; and
(C)
the Borrower intends to, and the Caisse Francaise de Developpement (CFD) 
has given its approval to, use part of the proceeds of the financing agreeement 
between the Borrower and
CFD (the CFD Financing Agreement) for the Borrowerþs structural adjustment program 
(the CFD Credit) to assist in financing part of the Project on terms and conditions 
set forth in the CFD Financing Agreement;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto 
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a member of the Association or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"ATC" means Agence Transcongolaise des Communications, a holding company 
owned by the Borrower;
(b)
"CFA Franc" and "CFAF" mean Franc de la Communaute Financiere d'Afrique 
Centrale, the currency of the Borrower;
(c)
"CFCO" means Chemin de Fer Congo-Ocean, the Borrowerþs railway company 
and a subdivision of ATC; 
(d)
"CORAF" means Congolaise de Raffinage, the Borrower's petroleum refinery;
 
(e)
"CP" means Comite de Privatisation, an entity, established under the 
Borrowerþs Law No. 21/94 of August 10, 1994, under the direction of MEFPP, and charged 
with the execution of the Program;
(f)
"CRSF" means Comite de Restructuration du Secteur Financier, an entity 
under the direction of MEFPP, charged with the reorganization of the Borrowerþs 
financial sector;
(g)
"DAC" means Direction des Affaires Civiles, an entity which is 
responsible for the execution of public enterprise liquidation;
(h)
"French Francs" and "FF" mean the currency of the French Republic;
 
(i)
"HC" means Hydro-Congo, the Borrower's petrochemical company;
 
(j)
"IAPSO" means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the United 
Nations Development Programme;
(k)
"IGE" means Inspection Generale d'Etat, an entity of the Borrower 
responsible for, among other things, the auditing of  the civil service employment 
records;
(l)
"MEFPP" means Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances, charge du Plan et 
de la Prospective, the Borrower's ministry in charge of finance, economy and planning;
(m)
"ONPT" means Office National des Postes et Telecommunications, the 
Borrower's postal and telecommunication agency;
(n)
"Project Implementation Plan" means the guidelines for Project 
Page  3
implementation, agreed with the Association, which include inter alia: (i) a list of 
affected enterprises under Parts A (3) (e) and  B of the Project and dated actions to 
be undertaken and goals to be achieved in relation to the enterprises indicated in 
said list; (ii) monitoring indicators; (iii) sample bidding documents; and  (iii) 
terms of reference for consulting services;
(o)
"PPN" means Port de Pointe-Noire, the Point-Noire harbor, a subdivision 
of ATC;
(p)
"SGG" means Secretariat General du Gouvernement, the Borrower's entity 
responsible, among other things, for the publishing of the Official Gazette;
(q)
"SNDE" means Societe Nationale de Distribution d'Eau, the Borrower's 
water supply company;
(r)
"SNE" means Societe Nationale d'Electricite, the Borrower's electricity 
supply company;
(s)
"SPCP" means Secretariat Permanent du CP, to be established under the 
Project;
(t)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(u)
"VNPTF" means Voies Navigables, Ports et Transports Fluviaux, the 
Borrower's river port and river transport company, a subdivision of ATC.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to five million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
5,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
French Francs a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
Page  4
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
June 1 and December 1,
commencing  December 1, 2005 and ending June 1, 2035. Each installment to, and 
including the installment payable on June 1, 2015, shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such 
principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and 
after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify 
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the 
Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or 
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an 
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through MEFPP, with due diligence and efficiency, in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and accounting practices, and with due regard to 
sound and appropriate environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement and with the Project Implementation Plan.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall: (a) until the completion of the Project, open 
and maintain in a commercial Bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association,  an account (the Project Account) to be 
used exclusively to meet expenditures under the Project; and (b) deposit into the 
Project Account: (i) an initial deposit of twenty-five million CFA Francs (CFAF 
25,000,000); and (ii) the remaining amount of its counterpart contributions, quarterly 
Page  5
in advance, to meet expenditures required for the Project during each such quarter.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.04.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, and shall cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such audit period, a 
certified copy of 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
Without any limitation to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts for the Special Account audited in 
accordance 
with said paragraph (b), every four months during the first 
twelve months 
after the Effective Date and every six months 
during the second twelve months 
after the Effective Date; and
 
(ii)
furnish to the Association, not later than two months after the 
end of the 
period audited, a certified copy of the report of any 
such audit.
(d)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
Page  6
bills, receipts and other 
documents or customs certificates, as 
appropriate) evidencing such 
expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the audits 
referred to 
in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section and that the 
report of any such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year (or such other 
period 
referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section), together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: (A) the right of 
the Borrower 
to withdraw the proceeds of the CFD Credit, or any other 
grant made to the 
Borrower for the financing of the Project 
shall have been suspended, canceled 
or terminated in whole or in 
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement 
providing therefore; 
or (B) the CFD Credit, or any such other grant, shall 
have 
become due and payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph 
(b) (ii) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
subparagraph (ii) of said Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower shall have appointed an independent auditor for the purposes 
of Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of Section II 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(b)
the Borrower shall have engaged an accountant, in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement and, with the assistance of 
such accountant, shall have established an accounting system for the Project, 
acceptable to the Association; and
(c)
the Borrower shall have opened the Project Account referred to in Section 
3.02 (a) of this Agreement and shall have deposited therein the initial amount 
stipulated in paragraph (b) of said Section.
Page  7
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The minister of the Borrower in charge of the economy and planning 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning
B.P.  64
Brazzaville
Republic of Congo
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINIPLAN
5294 KG
Brazzaville
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CONGO
By /s/ Nguila Moungounga Nkombo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
Page  8
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                            Credit Allocated          % of
                              (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category                SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Goods and Vehicles         600,000          100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 85% of local
                                                 expenditures
(2)  Consultants' services    4,900,000          100%
     and training
(3)  Unallocated                300,000
                              _________
        TOTAL                 5,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures".
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods and services to be 
rendered by consultant firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, and 
for services to be rendered by individual consultants under contracts not exceeding 
$50,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in the preparation and 
execution of its public enterprise and public sector reform program.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Policy and Institutional Support
 
1.
Implementation of Public Enterprise Privatization:
Page  9
(a)
Restructuring of ATC through: (i) the establishment of PPN and the 
Brazzaville port as ports autonomes;  (ii)  the privatization of assets owned by, and 
services provided by, VNPTF; and (iii) the concessioning of CFCO for private 
operation.
(b)
Restructuring of ONPT through: (i) separation, liberalization and 
deregulation of postal and telecommunication services; (ii) establishment of a postal 
company limited to mail distribution; (iii) liquidation of the financial 
intermediation services; (iv) transfer of telecommunication activities to the private 
sector; and (v) liquidation of the residual functions, assets and liabilities of ONPT. 
(c)
Reorganization of the Borrowerþs water and electricity sectors through: 
(i)  privatization of the production, transport and distribution of water and 
electricity, and (ii) liquidation of the residual functions, assets and liabilities of 
SNE and SNDE.
(d)
Reorganization of the Borrowerþs petroleum sector through: (i) 
privatization of the storage, transport  and distribution activities and assets of HC 
and CORAF; and (ii) liquidation of the residual functions, assets and liabilities of 
HC and CORAF.
2.
Regulations:
 
Definition of sectoral policies and preparation of a regulatory framework aimed 
at encouraging open competition and the development of private sector participation in 
the respective  sectors for: (i) telecommunications, (ii) petroleum, (iii) power, (iv) 
water, and (v) transport.
3.
Strengthening of the Institutional Capacity:
 
(a)
Support through the provisions of technical assistance to CP and SPCP for 
the implementation of the Program.
(b)
Establishment, through the provisions of technical assistance, of 
regulatory capabilities in the Ministries responsible for the supervision of the 
following sectors: (i) telecommunications, (ii) petroleum, (iii) power, (iv) water, 
and (v) transport.
Part B:
Liquidation of  Public Enterprises:
 
Liquidation of 67 non-viable public enterprises through private liquidators.
Part C:
Financial and Public Sector Reforms:
 
1.
Strengthening, through the provisions of technical assistance, of the planning 
and implementation capacity of CRSF for effective rehabilitation of the financial 
sector.
2.
Strengthening, through the provisions of technical assistance and equipment, of 
the capacity of IGE to implement the Borrowerþs policy of rationalization of its civil 
service.
3.
Strengthening of the capacity of SGG to regularly publish the Official Gazette, 
through the provision of equipment and the establishment of an electronic legal 
database.
Part D:
Communication:
 
Implementation of a communication campaign aimed at: (i) information to the 
Borrower's population of the advantages and constraints inherent to the Program; (ii) 
establishment of transparency of transfers of public assets; (iii) rallying support 
for the Program by the Borrowerþs population; and (iv) dissemination of  information 
inside and outside the territory of the Borrower pertaining to the potential for 
economic development in the country, and the  structural and regulatory changes 
undertaken.
Page  10
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 1 of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under  contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and of
Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost more than $50,000 equivalent each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient.
Part C:
International Shopping and Procurement from UN Agencies:
 
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract and $300,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured: (i) under contracts awarded on 
the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines, or (ii) through IAPSO in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions:
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts for goods 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more per contract, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph.
2.
Prior Review 
 
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
Page  11
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the 
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract 
value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent 
or above.
SCHEDULE  4
Implementation Program
1.
MEFPP shall be responsible under the Project for activities related to 
privatization and liquidation of public enterprises. The Borrower shall establish the 
CP  and its permanent secretariat, which shall be responsible for Project activities 
related to privatization, regulatory framework reform and communication. DAC shall be 
responsible for the liquidation activities. A Coordinator, appointed by and acting 
under the supervision of  MEFPP, shall have overall responsibility for Project 
administration and bookkeeping. Said Coordinator shall at all times until the 
completion of the Project have qualifications and experience acceptable to the 
Association.
2.
The Borrower shall ensure that all its departments or agencies responsible for 
carrying out the Project or any part thereof shall comply with the procedures included 
in the Project Implementation Plan, and shall not amend or waive such Project 
Implementation Plan so as to affect materially and adversely the carrying out of the 
Project.
3.
Prior to the starting of major assignments, as defined in the Project 
Implementation Plan, by consultants employed in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall designate local 
counterparts to work with said consultants, under terms of reference and with 
qualifications acceptable to the Association.
4.
(a)
The Borrower shall carry out, jointly with the Association, not earlier 
than October 30, 1996 and not later than December 31, 1996, a mid-term review of the 
progress made in carrying out the Project (referred to in this paragraph as the 
Mid-Term Review). The Mid-Term Review shall cover, among other things: (i) progress in 
meeting the Project's objectives; (ii) overall Project performance against Project 
performance indicators; and (iii) the performance of the consultants under the 
Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall, at least three weeks prior to the Mid-Term Review, 
furnish to the Association a report describing the status of the items listed in 
paragraph (a) above and of Project implementation generally.
(c)
The Borrower shall, not later than four weeks after the Mid-Term Review, 
prepare an action program, acceptable to the Association, for the further 
Page  12
implementation of the Project having regard to the findings of the Mid-Term Review 
and, thereafter, implement such action program.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to three 
million French Francs (FF 3,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence acceptable to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of 
such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
Page  13
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) and (c) (ii) of this Agreement, 
any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment 
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided  such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General 
Conditions.
