Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7319-GU 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(First Broad-Based Growth Development Policy Loan) 
 
between  
 
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated January 5, 2006 
 
Page  2
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 7319-GU 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated January 5, 2006, between REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A)  the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated May 30, 
2005 describing a program of actions, objectives, and policies designed to promote 
growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution thereof;  
 
WHEREAS (B) the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Bank and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Bank; and 
WHEREAS (C) on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan in 
one single tranche as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 (a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read: 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.”; 
(b) 
Section 3.08 is modified to read: 
 
“Each withdrawal of an amount of the Loan from the Loan Account shall 
be made in the Loan Currency. The Bank, at the request and acting as an 
agent of the Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency withdrawn 
Page  4
2
from the Loan Account such currencies as shall be required to meet 
payments to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
.”
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions.”; 
(d) 
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
 
(e) 
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution 
of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.05 is deleted in its entirety and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified 
above), 9.08 and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“BANGUAT” means the Borrower’s central bank; 
(b) 
“Budget management system” referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement, means  the Borrower’s financial management system; 
(c) 
“DR-CAFTA” means Dominican Republic-Central America Free Trade 
Agreement, a treaty entered into and ratified on March 16, 2005 by the Borrower for the 
purposes of establishing a free trade zone among the countries of Guatemala, Honduras, 
Nicaragua, San Salvador, the Dominican Republic and the United States of America;  
(d) 
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year beginning January 1 and 
ending December 31 of the next calendar year; 
(e) 
“GDP” means gross domestic product;  
Page  5
3
(f) 
“
Guatecompras
”
means the transparent web-based procurement system 
of the Borrower;  
(g) 
“Inter-Governmental Financial Action Task Force” on money laundering 
and combating of terrorism means the international task force established in 1989 for the 
development and promotion of policies, both at national and international levels, to 
combat money laundering and financing of terrorism; 
(h) 
 
“International Maritime Organization” means a United Nations- 
sponsored international organization established by a multilateral convention which 
entered into force in 1958
 
with the objectives of improving safety at sea through the 
development of international regulations to be followed by all shipping nations; 
(i) 
“Invest in Guatemala” means the Borrower’s investment promotion 
office established in September 2004; 
(j)  
“
Ministerio de 
Economía
”
means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy; 
(k) “
Ministerio de Finanzas P
úblicas
”
means the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Public Finance; and 
(l) 
“Peace Accords” means the peace accords of 1996 signed by all parties 
to Guatemala’s armed conflict. 
ARTICLE
 
II
 
The Loan 
 Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred 
million Dollars ($100,000,000)
 
as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of ninety-nine million 
Dollars ($99,000,000) from the Loan Account in support of the Program. 
 (b)  Except as the Bank may otherwise agree: (i) all withdrawals from the Loan 
Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an account designated by the Borrower and 
acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an 
amount of the Loan into said account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
Page  6
4
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank determines at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to 
make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount of said payment to the Bank. 
Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as 
may be determined by the Bank from time to time. On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of said fee.  
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on May 15
 
and November 15
 
in each year. 
 Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
Page  7
5
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the 
Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
Section 2.10.  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of  Section 
2.09 of this Agreement and  unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis 
applicable to consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account which in the aggregate 
equal one hundred million Dollars shall be converted from the initial Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of the 
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program. 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01 (a) of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information 
relating to the provisions of Article II of this Agreement as the Bank may, from time to 
time, reasonably request. 
Page  8
6
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
(a) 
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part thereof, will be carried out;  
(b) 
the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become inconsistent 
with the objectives of the Program; and 
(c) 
an action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any action or 
policy under the Program, including any action listed under Schedule 3 to this Agreement, in a 
manner that would, in the opinion of the Association, adversely affect the achievement of the 
objectives of the Program. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
 
Section 5.01. The date April 5, 2006 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01.The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
Page  9
7
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministerio de Finanzas Públicas 
8a Avenida y 21 Calle 
 
Centro Cívico, Zona 1 
 
Guatemala, Guatemala, C.A. 
 
Telephone: Fax: 
 
(502) 22485002 
(502) 22485005 
(502) 22485003  
 
 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
 
(202) 477-6391  
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  10
8
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the
 
City of Guatemala, Guatemala
,
as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA 
 
By /s/ Maria Antonieta del Cid de Bonilla 
 Authorized 
Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Mark Cackler 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  11
9
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.  
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant; 
2.  
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                           
- 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
 
121                           
- 
 
Tobacco, unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122                           
- 
 
Tobacco, manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525                           
- 
 
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
        
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
718                          
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
Page  12
10
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery  
 
897                          
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971                          
- 
 
Gold, non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
4. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party, and any other goods designated as 
environmentally hazardous by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank); 
5. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of 
goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
6.  
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation. 
 
Page  13
11
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 
Payment Date 
(Expressed as a %) 
 
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
Beginning November 15, 2007  
 
through November 15, 2024 
2.78 % 
 
On May 15, 2025 
2.70 % 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Page  14
12
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
 
Page  15
13
 
SCHEDULE 3 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
A. Economic 
growth 
Pursuant to the objective of fostering growth and strengthening the investment climate 
in relation thereto stated in the LDP, the Borrower has: 
 
1. 
(i) signed the DR-CAFTA Treaty; (ii) caused it to be approved by Congress; and 
(iii) effected the publication of the notification of such approval in the Official Gazette; 
2. 
established “Invest in Guatemala”, taken the necessary steps to make it fully 
operational (with adequate structure, mandate and staff) and under the  administrative 
authority of the Ministry of Economy; 
3. 
obtained the security certification of all of the Borrower’s seaports in line with 
the specifications of the International Maritime Organization; and  
4. 
achieved removal of the Borrower from the list of non-cooperative countries of 
the Inter-Governmental Financial Action Task Force on money laundering and the 
combating of terrorism. 
B.   
Public expenditures management 
Pursuant to the objective of enhancing capacity for public spending in priority sectors 
stated in the LDP, the Borrower has: 
 
1. 
carried out all required procedural steps under its legal and constitutional 
framework to ensure that appropriate amendments to the Borrower’s legislation are 
passed, including: (i) Decree No. 18-04 on income taxes; (ii) Decree No. 19-04 regarding 
temporary and extraordinary taxes in support of the Peace Accords; (iii) Decree No 21-04 
regarding taxes for the distribution of alcoholic beverages, distilled drinks, beer and other 
beverages; and (iv) Decree No. 38-2005 regarding the distribution of crude petroleum 
and combustible petroleum derivatives, all with form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank; 
 
2. 
against projected gaps in tax revenues for Fiscal Year 2004 arising from 
constitutional court rulings striking down selected tax laws, the Borrower has maintained, 
through substantial enforcement efforts in tax collection, a level of tax revenues of 10.3% 
of GDP by end of Fiscal Year 2004; and 
 
Page  16
14
 
3. 
increased the budgetary allocations for social expenditures as defined in the 
Peace Accords, from 5% of GDP, as per the 2004 executed budget, to at least 5.5% of 
GDP for Fiscal Year 2005 .
 
C. 
Public sector management
Pursuant to the objective of improving transparency in, and efficiency of, the 
utilization of public resources
 
stated in the LDP, the Borrower has: 
 
1. 
(i) implemented its integrated financial management system (SIAF) in forty-three 
(43) of the Borrower’s central government entities and legislative branch, in forty-six 
(46) of the Borrower’s municipalities; and in twenty (20) of the Borrower’s decentralized 
agencies; and (ii) launched, through information technology, its fiscal transparency portal 
to enhance public access to budget data; and 
2. established 
Guatecompras 
in seventy six (76) of the Borrower’s  public sector 
agencies
 
and one hundred eighty five (185) of the Borrower’s municipalities.
 
