Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1663 
Operation Name 
First Broad-Based Growth Development Policy Loan 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Central government administration (100%) 
Project ID 
P094365 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF GUATEMALA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance of Guatemala 
Date PID Prepared 
June 2, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
May 24, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
July 7, 2005 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The Bank Group’s assistance over FY05-08 is elaborated in a new Country Assistance Strategy that 
proposes a strategic program of lending and non-lending services to support the fundamentals and three 
main pillars of the government’s development plan 
Vamos Guatemala!
:
(i) promote social solidarity, 
reduce poverty and inequality and promote economic integration; (ii) accelerate growth to above the 4% 
observed in the 1990s; and (iii) to ensure the environmental and social sustainability of economic 
development. In terms of new lending during the FY05-08 period, the strategy adopted is to move 
forward with a balanced program which allows for about half of lending to be channeled through a 
series of programmatic Development Policy Loans focused on growth, with the other half devoted to an 
investment program of interventions aimed at directly reducing inequality and poverty and continuing to 
strengthen governance.  The loan proposed in this document, for a total amount of US$100 million, is 
the first in the series of DPLs, and is therefore, integral to the implementation of the CAS.   
 
2. 
Proposed objectives
 
The proposed operation will support measures to reignite growth as a principal means of reducing 
poverty in Guatemala.  The specific objectives of the Development Policy Loan are: (i) promoting 
growth and improving the investment climate, (ii) enhancing fiscal space for priority social investments, 
and (iii) transparency and public sector modernization.   
 
3. 
Preliminary description
 
The proposed DPL is part of a programmatic approach that supports actions in the three areas listed 
described above. The key measures highlighted as prior actions for this DPL are the following: 
 
(1) Promoting Growth and Strengthening the Investment Climate
:
DR-CAFTA treaty signed and ratified 
by Congress; movement towards stronger regional integration through simplification and harmonization 
of customs procedures with El Salvador; reduction in customs processing times and costs; investment 
promotion office, 
Invest in Guatemala
,
established and fully operational; law for the creation of the 
Cadastre Information Registry (RIC) presented to Congress; achievement of international security 
certification of all Guatemalan seaports; implementation launch by Fondetel of a Rural 
Telecommunications Sector Strategy (RTSS);  progress on independent assessment of alternatives to 
Page  2
address CHN weaknesses; launched implementation of strengthened Payment Systems; Guatemala taken 
off list of Non-Cooperative Countries of the Financial Action Task Force. 
 
(2) Enhancing Capacity for Public Spending in Priority Sectors
:
recovered revenues lost as a result of 
Constitutional Court rulings; early establishment and communication by the Technical Finance 
Commission of 2006 budget ceilings for 2006 based on macroeconomic and fiscal policy targets. 
 
(3) Transparency and Public Sector Management
:
Integrated Financial Management System (SIAF) 
operational in 43 central government entities -including Congress-, 20 decentralized agencies, and 46 
municipalities; and fiscal transparency portal launched to enhance public access to budget data; 
transparent web-based procurement system (Guatecompras) in use in 76 public sector agencies and 185 
municipalities. 
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
The project is not expected to have any environmental impact. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
100 
 Total 
100 
 
6. Contact point 
 
Contact: Neeta G. Sirur 
Title: Guatemala Country Manager 
Tel: [+502]2366-2044 
Fax: [+502] 2366-1936 
Email: Nsirur@worldbank.org
 
