 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14867

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 11/30/2015

               Country: Brazil
             Project ID: P089929                                                  Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Br Rio Grande Do              Project Costs (US$M):                    59.8                43.8
                         Norte Integrated
                         Water Resources
                         Management
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                     35.9                25.8
      Sector Board:      Water                        Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                                09/18/2007
                                                                Closing Date:              11/30/2012        09/30/2014
          Sector(s):       Water supply (47%); Sub-national government administration (30%); General water;
                           sanitation and flood protection sector (10%); Irrigation and drainage (8%); Wastewater
                           Treatment and Disposal (5%)
         Theme(s):         Water resource management (50%); Rural services and infrastructure (25%); Environmental
                           policies and institutions (25%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:           ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Vibecke Dixon              John R. Eriksson       Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 The project development objective as stated in the PAD (p 40 para 3, under section 2. Project Objectives) “is to
promote economic, social and environmentally sustainable development through the implementation of an integrated
water resources management system”.

The PDO in the Legal Agreement is formulated slightly differently (Loan Agreement 7488-BR, p 20, under Schedule 2
Description of the Project):
“The objective of the Project is to promote economic, social and environmentally sustainable development in the
Borrower’s territory through the implementation of an integrated water resources management system, including the
preparation of a water sector strategy and a long-term investment program to promote an efficient use and adequate
supply of water resources”.

The assessment in this ICRR is based on the formulation of the PDO in the Legal Agreement, while taking into
account the understanding of the different levels of objectives as outlined in the PDO. However, it is also clear from
the PAD (p 8, para 32-33) that “to promote economic, social and environmentally sustainable development” is a higher
level objective and therefore not within the purview of the project.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:
The project had four components (PAD pp 10-11 paras 38-49; ICR p 3-4 paras 13-16, and Annex 3 pp 25-41):
Component 1: Institutional Development and Water Resources Management Instruments (Appraisal: US$ 15.2
million, Actual: US$ 4.3 million) intended to improve the State’s (Government of Rio Grande do Norte) Water
Resource Management capabilities and develop adequate water resources management instruments.
This component had five subcomponents:
(1.1)     Improvement of the Legal and Institutional Framework;
(1.2)     Water Sector Planning Instruments;
(1.3)     Information Instruments;
(1.4)     Operational Instruments; and
(1.5)     Studies and Special Projects.

Component 2: Natural Resources Conservation and Protection (Appraisal: US$ 5.1 million, Actual: US$ 3.5 million)
intended to support the preservation of water quality, improved efficiency in water use by reducing water losses in
state-owned public water supply infrastructure, improving water conservation in agricultural and industrial activities,
and generating water-saving technologies, including using treated wastewater, and adoption of sustainable
agricultural practices on irrigated lands. This component had five subcomponents:
(2.1) Microcatchment Pilot Projects;
(2.2) Prevention of losses in the State’s bulk water transmission networks;
(2.3) Prevention of losses in the public water supply system;
(2.4) Uses of treated wastewater; and
(2.5) Sediment Control

Component 3: Water Infrastructure (Appraisal: US$ 35.4 million, Actual: US$ 32.7 million) intended to enhance the
State’s water management capabilities and to improve general water availability. It provided technical and financial
assistance to improve water availability through rehabilitation of existing bulk water infrastructure; construct
supplementary water infrastructure works to improve water supply for the population served by the Monsenhor
Expedito pipeline and for poor, scattered rural populations, and to implement pilot interventions for improved irrigation
efficiency. This component had four subcomponents:
(3.1) Rehabilitation and maintenance of existing water infrastructure;
(3.2) Expansion of water infrastructure;
(3.3) Water supply systems for small rural communities; and
(3.4) Pilot Interventions for the rehabilitation and modernization of small farmer irrigation schemes.


Component 4: Project Management (Appraisal 4.1 US$ million, Actual: US$ 3.1 million), included the overall project
execution and M&E system, as well as communications and dissemination, preparation of the concept document for a
possible second-phase project. This component had four subcomponents:
(4.1) Project Management;
(4.2) Monitoring and Evaluation;
(4.3) Support to the preparation of the Second Phase; and
(4.4) Project communication and dissemination.


 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 The total project costs were estimated to be US$59.8 million (PAD p 10 para 37. Of this, the Bank loan would
amount to US$ 35.9 million and the Borrower’s (Government of Rio Grande do Norte) counterpart would be US$ 23.9
million.

The planned and actual costs per component are as follows (figures taken from PAD page 10, para 37), “Project
Financing Matrix by Component” and ICR Annex 1, table (a) “Project Cost by Component”):

   US$ million            Planned total       Actual total     Planned          Planned
                          costs                                Bank             Borrower
                                                               Proceeds         contribution

   Component 1                        15.1              4.3            11.9                     3.3

   Component 2                         5.1              3.5             2.4                     2.7

   Component 3                        35.4            32.7             18.2                    17.3

   Component 4                         4.1              3.1             3.4                     0.7
    Total                             59,7            43,6             35,9                  24,0


Due to delays and adjustments in dam rehabilitation design and works under the subcomponent Rehabilitation of key
bulk water infrastructure, the project closed before a successful bidding process for rehabilitation works could be
concluded. The failure to contract dam rehabilitation works led directly to an undisbursed amount of about US$ 10
million at project closing.

The project was approved on 9/18/2007, and the original closing date was set to 11/30/2012.

The project went through two Restructurings. A level-2 Restructuring approved on August 9, 2012 included a closing
date extension of 16 months, reallocation of Loan proceeds between categories and adjustments of project targets
and indicators. A second level-2 Restructuring was approved on March 20, 2014. It included another closing date
extension of six months, until September 30, 2013; reallocation of Loan proceeds between categories, which included
an increase in the percentage of Bank financing from 66 to 100 percent for disbursement category 2 – Works, and
from 75 to 100 percent for disbursement category 4 – Operating Costs; and adjustments of project targets and
indicators. The project team informed IEG (August 18, 2015) that the main reason for the restructurings was the long
delay between approval and effectiveness (almost 2 years) of this project, due partly to delays in counterpart funds
availability, in turn resulting from budgetary restrictions being applied at the State level. The original cost estimates
were outdated and had not been revised between approval and effectiveness, which made it necessary to prioritize
between the planned activities as the project funds were no longer sufficient for implementation of all of them.

Regarding the type of loan and the logic behind the alternative chosen, the following is stated in the PAD (p 41 para
5): “The project was originally planned as a three-phase APL, with a relatively small loan (about US$ 15 million) in
each phase. However, given the improved debt capacity of the state as well as the greater flexibility in project design
afforded by a two-phase intervention, the GoRN and the Bank agreed to implement a five-year SIL to be followed, if
approved, by a six-year SIL building on the gains of that first loan as a better alternative. This would imply, as a first
phase, a project of US$59.8 million, supported by a loan of about US$35.9 million, to develop the legal, institutional
and technical basis on which to build a long-term sustainable development program for the water sector of RGN. This
long-term program will have as a starting point a consolidated IWRM system developed during the first phase, and will
thus be able to focus on the full implementation of a basin-based WRM mechanism and the development of a more
comprehensive infrastructure investment plan. Assuming the proposed first phase achieves the results necessary to
move on to the second phase, a new Carta Consulta (Consultative letter – informal translation)would be prepared
and, if approved, the program would be executed during a six-year second phase which would be supported by a new
loan.”


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
Relevance of Objectives is Substantial.
At the time of preparation (2004-7), the project formed an integral part of Brazil’s water resources management
(WRM) strategy (ICR p 1 para 2). According to the ICR, (p 1 para 5), the project was designed to support the
2004-2007 Brazil Country Assistance Strategy goals of:
-           improved sustainability (through improved water quality and WRM),
-           equitability (through more equitable access to local services),
-           competitiveness (through efficiency-increasing infrastructure and improved resource allocation) and
-           public sector management (both through local water users associations and basin committees as well as
             State-level water management actors).

The project’s objectives of promoting economic, social and environmentally sustainable development were relevant
also at closure, as they are in line with the four strategic objectives for the Brazil CAS for 2012-2015 (Brazil CAS
2012-2015, p 15, para 47 a-d), which were to:
-         increase the efficiency of public and private investments;
-         improve the quality of public services for low income households;
-         promote regional economic development through improved policies, strategic infrastructure and support
           for private sector actors in frontier regions; and
-         improve natural resources management and climate resilience.

With regard to the relevance of objectives for the Borrower at effectiveness and closure, both the PAD and the ICR
provide little documentary information. The project team informed IEG that, to their knowledge, a written document
(like a strategy) containing the State’s development priorities does not exist. However, on page 6, para 23 of the PAD,
it is stated: “ The Government of Rio Grande do Norte (GoRN) has requested the Bank’s long-term commitment and
financial support to the strengthening of the water resources in the State”, which is an indication that investments in
the water sector was a priority for the Borrower at preparation. Similarly, on page 23, paras 93-94 of the ICR, it is
stated that GoRN considers continuity of the partnership with the Bank, including through a new operation, very
important. This is an indication that further investments in the water sector is a priority for the Borrower also at project
closure.


 b. Relevance of Design:
Relevance of Design is Substantial.
As stated in the Loan Agreement (p 20), the objective was to “promote economic, social and environmentally
sustainable development in the Borrower’s territory through the implementation of an integrated water resources
management system, including the preparation of a water sector strategy and a long-term investment program to
promote an efficient use and adequate supply of water resources”.

It is clear from the PAD (p 8, para 32) that to “promote economic, social and environmentally sustainable
development” is a higher level objective. The two intended outcomes in the formulation are thus “efficient use of water
resources” and “adequate supply of water resources”. This was to be achieved through the following outputs; “an
integrated water resources management system”; “a water sector strategy” and “a long term investment program”.

The project components and subcomponents were relevant to achieve the outputs (i.e. an integrated water resources
management system, including a water sector strategy and a long term investment plan) and also, to intended
outcomes (adequate supply- and efficient use of water resources.

The logical chain for the PDO would look as follows:
Input: Funds and technical assistance
Outputs: An Integrated Water Resources Management System, a water sector strategy and a long term investment
plan.
Outcomes: Adequate supply- and efficient use of water resources;
Higher level objective: Economic, social and environmentally sustainable development

The Relevance of Design is rated Substantial as the causal chain between funding and outcomes is relatively clear.
However, there is a gap in the logical chain between the intended outcomes and the higher level objective; it is not
clear how efficient use- and adequate supply of water resources will lead to economic, social and environmentally
sustainable development. Exogenous factors and unintended (positive and negative) effects were also not identified.


 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   The Project Development Objective, as stated in the Legal Agreement (Loan Agreement 7488-BR, p 20, under
Schedule 2 Description of the Project, paragraph unnumbered): was to “promote economic, social and
environmentally sustainable development in the Borrower’s territory through the implementation of an integrated water
resources management system, including the preparation of a water sector strategy and a long-term investment
program to promote an efficient use and adequate supply of water resources”.

It is clear from the PAD (p 8 para 32) that “to promote economic, social and environmentally sustainable development”
is a higher level objective; therefore, the project will not be assessed towards achievement of those in this ICRR.

“The implementation of an integrated water resources management system”; “the preparation of a water sector
strategy”; and “a long-term investment program” are thus outputs put in place to bring about the intended outcomes.

The outcomes to be achieved (as stated in the LA) are thus:
a)      Efficient use of water resources; and
b)      Adequate supply of water resources,

Some of the indicators are referred to under both intended outcomes below, as they are relevant for both “efficient
use” and “adequate supply” of water resources. Most of the indicators reported on in the ICR are output-oriented and
information regarding achievement of outcomes is limited.


a)         Efficient use of water resources : Modest

Outputs:
          A fully operational water resources monitoring and information network (target reached)
        106 water monitoring posts operating (target: 50)
        1 River Basin Committee created and 4 strengthened (target: 1 created)
        125 small desalinization units rehabilitated and used (target: 60)
        The direct and indirect intake from Lagao do Bonfim has been reduced to 212 l/s, the remaining 214 l/s
         that are necessary to supply the current level of demand are extracted from new wells
        Financial benefits consist of a growth in CAERN’s net revenue from an increase in the volume of supplied
         water and in the share of active connections with water meters from 60 to 89 percent
        The main economic benefits derive from the improved access to water drawn by new users or users who
         used to receive small and erratic quantities of water

Outcomes:
        Water losses in the Monsenhor Expedito water supply pipelines and distribution system were controlled
         and measured at the micro and macro levels, resulting in water losses dropping from an estimated 46% to
         38%. However, no measurements were done at baseline (46% was an estimated guess), so there is no
         documentation of what the actual water losses were prior to the project and whether they in fact have
         decreased.
        Water resources legislation revised and partially adopted. A new legal structure for the State of Rio Grande
         do Norte Water Management Institute (IGARN) and the State Secretariat of Environment and Water
         Resources (SEMARH) had been defined and the laws were approved by the State Assembly in January
         2013. Due to fiscal restrictions, the decrees regulating the operation of each entity had not been issued at
         project closure. The project team informed IEG that the decree regulating the functions of SEMARH was
         issued on July 22, 2015, and that the one regulating the functions of IGARN was issued on August 17,
         2015.


b)       Adequate supply of water resources : Modest

Outputs:
        A fully operational water resources monitoring and information (target reached)
        33 community water points rehabilitated or constructed (original target: 60; revised target: 33)
        Management plan of Cruzeta irrigation perimeter prepared and implemented
        115 producers who benefited from hydro-environmental works at Cobra River Basin (target 70)
        14 communities with water and sanitation systems adequately sustained (target: 33).This indicator only
         measured “water systems” and not sanitation. Sanitation systems were never part of the project design,
         neither at appraisal nor during implementation.
        Financial benefits consist of a growth in CAERN’s net revenue from an increase in the volume of supplied
          water and in the share of active connections with water meters from 60 to 89 percent
        The main economic benefits derive from the improved access to water drawn by new users or users who
          used to receive small and erratic quantities of water

Outcomes:
        2,697 additional families with access to reliable potable water (target was 3,000)
        Decreasing water losses in Monsenhor Expedito system means that more than 300,000 people served by
         this system have more reliable access to water than before.

The ICR on occasion asserts achievements at the outcome level, e.g. on p 15, paras 57 and 58: “Cruzeta Irrigated
Perimeter Pilot created a showcase example of a modernized irrigation system that allowed improved production,
increased efficiency, increased resilience to extreme events, improved O&M, and diversified agriculture”. And the
“Cobra Micro-Watershed Pilot (…) was successful in demonstrating improved agricultural production and resilience
through implementation of environmentally sustainable water and water soil conservation practices.” However, these
claims are not backed up by evidence; there is no background data to validate that practices and yields improved.

The project team clarified this matter: The outcomes mentioned in paras 57 and 58 on page 15 of the ICR are
outcomes that the team would have expected to happen should the project have been operating under optimal
conditions. However, the project areas experienced extreme drought during the past three years of the project’s
operation, and did not in fact achieve any of the above stated outcomes (see also ICR footnote 34 stating that some
farmers have been able to draw water from alternative sources during this period, i.e. not from the project). During the
drought, there was not sufficient water supply for agricultural irrigation, as water for human consumption is a priority
by law (i.e. the irrigation perimeters could not draw water from the reservoir during the drought period despite the
irrigation infrastructure being in place).

IEG concludes that there were no measurable outcomes from the above-mentioned irrigation activities.
There is no discussion of the project’s attribution or any counterfactuals in the ICR.


5. Efficiency:
 Efficiency is Modest.

At Appraisal:
A cost-benefit analysis was estimated at appraisal for the two most costly elements of Component 3 (Water
Infrastructure): i) the expansion of the Monsenhor Expedito Water Supply System, and ii) a Pilot for Irrigation and
Water Resources Management in the Cruzeta Dam irrigation perimeter. (See the PAD, p.19 and Annex 9: Economic
and Financial Analysis, pp 73-76 paras 11-21 for details). The economic rate of return (ERR) for investment in the
expansion of the Monsenhor Expedito System was estimated at 18.7 % (PAD p 74, para 15). For the Cruzeta Dam
pilot, three different farm models were used to analyze the financial and economic viability of the project proposal, and
the financial rates of return (FRRs) of the models ranged from 18.5 % to 31.8 %, The overall ERR was estimated at
33.4 % (PAD p 76, para 21). The Team observes that the higher ERR results from shadow pricing employed in the
analysis.

At Closure:
Annex 3 (Economic and Financial Analysis) of the ICR (pp 42 ff), reports that the actual project cost distribution was
considerably different at closure from that foreseen at appraisal (p 42, para 2). The Monsenhor Expedito Water Supply
System received a substantially larger proportion of the funds than projected at appraisal and represented 65% of the
total project costs at closure. Water supply systems for small rural communities were the second largest investment
representing 11% of the total. These two interventions accounted for 76 % of total project costs. Most of the -
remaining funds were to be allocated to institutional development and water resources management (10%),
rehabilitation and maintenance of the infrastructure (4 %) and project management (7%).

The ICR states that an ex-post cost-benefit analysis of the project as a whole was not warranted due to the different
nature, scope and scale of the investments under each project component compared to the appraisal plans. It also
observes that environmental benefits such as less pressure on water sources “are not easily quantifiable” (ICR, p.16).
The Team adds that “many investments could not be analyzed (e.g. institutional development or rehabilitation and
maintenance of existing water infrastructure).” In principle it is not clear why the latter example would not be subject to
economic analysis. At closure, an economic analysis was prepared separately for selected project components, but
not for the project as a whole.

Rate of return estimates undertaken at closure showed the following results:
i)       For the Monsenhor Expedito Water Supply System expansion, the ICR states that the investments in the
system were justified in terms of financial efficiency since the average revenue from billed water received by the Rio
Grande do Norte Water and Sewage Company (CAERN) increased from Brazilian Real (R$)1.4/m3 to R$2.0/m3. This
was estimated to yield an FRR of 10% (ICR p 43, para 9). The additional volume of water supplied to the population
previously suffering from water shortage was estimated to have increased the ERR to 14% (ICR p 44 para 10). The
methodology by which this increase was estimated is not explained. The ex post estimate of 14% compares with an
ex ante estimate of 18.7%.

ii)      For the Cruzeta Dam Pilot, the ex post ERR was estimated at 11% (ICR p 49, para 28,Table 4). This
compares with an ex ante estimate of 33.4%.
iii)     For the water supply system for small rural communities, the overall ex post ERR was estimated at 29%
(ICR p 45, para 19). This estimation is however based on the assumption that the investment’s sustainability would be
insured by the municipalities. Only 43% of the communities were paying tariffs to cover operational costs. There is no
ex ante ERR with which to compare this result.


Since ex ante and ex post ERR estimates were available only for the Monsenhor Expedito and Cruzeta interventions,
and ex ante cost information was not given for any of the above-named interventions, it is not possible to make ERR
comparisons for a larger aggregate of interventions. As noted above, the ex ante ERR estimate for Monsenhor
Expedito, was 18.7%, while the ex post ERR was estimated at 14%, when it accounted for 65% of ex post total costs.
The ex ante ERR estimate for Cruzeta was 33.4%, while the ex post ERR was estimated at 11%. No US Dollar cost
figures are provided for Cruzeta. Both the ICR (p.17) and the Team attribute the lower ex post ERR to the three years
of extreme drought preceding project closure.

Despite the lack of funds for implementation of the originally planned activities, 28% of the loan funds were not
disbursed and had to be cancelled after the closing date. These funds had been reserved for the rehabilitation of
dams. However, the bidding process for these works failed due to lack of proposals and had to be cancelled without
enough time for reallocation of funds to other activities (ICR p 7, para 31). Owing to these administrative inefficiencies
leading to cancelation of almost a third of loan funds as well as the gaps in data identified above, Efficiency is rated
Modest.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        Yes                                      18.7%                                    65%

    ICR estimate                     Yes                                       14%                                     65%
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
     Relevance of Objectives is Substantial as the objectives were in line with Bank strategies at the time of closure.
Relevance of Design is rated Substantial as the activities are relevant to achieve the intended outcomes, despite a
weak results framework and gaps in the logical chain. Achievement of both intended outcomes “Efficient use of water
resources” and “Adequate supply of water resources” is rated Modest. Efficiency is Modest, as despite lack of funds
to some activities, 28% of project funds were undisbursed and cancelled. In addition, there were severe
implementation delays (and 26% of activities were not undertaken).
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   The ICR reports (p 19, para 73-74) that there was a substantial risk that some development results would not be
sustained as the major institutional improvements were not fully achieved. The consultancy contracts for the PMU
were terminated and there was a possibility of administrative changes that could compromise the sustainability of the
project’s results.

The sustainability of the Monsenhor Expedito pipeline system, operated by the Rio Grande do Norte Water and
Sewage Company (CAERN) is more secure, as the same company will be responsible for the works after project
closure. This project intervention has a potential for replication (as do the Cruzeta pilot), but any replications would be
the responsibility of separate administrative bodies/implementation agencies, and sustainability of results would thus
not be assured.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The ICR reports that the preparation process for this project was well-researched and client driven (ICR p 19,
para 75). However, the implementation challenges posed by the Borrower’s lack of financial and institutional
capacity were substantially underestimated, and sufficient risk mitigation measures were not incorporated into
project design. Project preparation failed to plan and budget for the costs and time required to ensure compliance
with the environmental safeguards and licensing requirements, which led to higher costs and prolonged and
delayed project implementation (ICR pp19-20 para 77). The project design was fragmented into many different
and relatively small water-related activities which proved challenging to coordinate and supervise. While the
project scope incorporated complementary activities with the intention to improve management of water resources
and access to water services, it included a broad variety of activities that went beyond the mandate and capacity
of the executing agency (ICR p 5, para 23).
It was also found during implementation, that insufficient time and funds for works had been budgeted during
preparation (ICR page 6, para 26).

Furthermore, the PAD’s results framework was entirely output-oriented, and no key indicators were set up to
measure expected outcomes. One indicator was partially irrelevant, as it was set up to measure water supply and
sanitation systems, while sanitation systems was not part of the project design.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                          Moderately Unsatisfactory
b. Quality of supervision:
   14 supervision missions were carried out during 8 years of project implementation.
The ICR reports that the support and continuity provided by the Bank were key in the institutional reform process
for the water resources sector, bringing international experience in IWRM and institutional strengthening to Rio
Grande do Norte. Proactive restructurings by the supervising team on two occasions allowed the Bank to respond
to implementation challenges due to delayed counterpart funding and to extend the project to conclude the
maximum number of activities possible (ICR, p 20, para 78). However, during both these restructurings, the Bank
team failed to address the serious shortcomings of the results framework and the weak M&E system; key
indicators were not amended to measure outcomes and the logical gaps in the theory of change were not
addressed. This is one of the main reasons for the poor quality of results reporting in the project; without a sound
M&E system including adequate indicators, it was not possible to measure the project’s achievements.
Furthermore, there was a high turnover of Bank staff during the life span of this project: a total of 5 TTLs led the
project during its time of preparation and implementation, potentially undermining the continuity of support to the
project.

Despite the challenges and the shortcomings identified at Design, the Bank team provided close implementation
support to the client, with a large technical team of professionals.



   Quality of Supervision Rating :                 Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :               Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    According to the ICR (page 20, para 81), the State Government showed commitment to the project during
preparation, making a strategic decision to give preference to the water sector in the allocation of potential
external resources. This commitment continued for the first 18 months after effectiveness and for 6 months in
2011 after the election of a new State administration. However, after that, prioritization of the sector and project by
the higher levels of government suffered, in part due to frequent administration changes and non-technical
leadership at the State Secretariat of Water Resources.

There was a long gap (32 months) between Appraisal and Effectiveness, mainly caused by requirements of the
Federal Government (guarantor) that had to be met by the State Government (borrower) prior to negotiations. Due
to this delay, the project faced difficulties once implementation began. First, the estimates for resources required
were outdated, and the amounts allocated were no longer sufficient for the full scope of activities foreseen at
Appraisal. It was also found during implementation that some of the engineering designs were out of date.

Furthermore, the project experienced difficulties in making available counterpart funds due to budget restrictions
that led to delays in implementation and negative relations with some contractors. Internal controls and clearances
for the State bidding processes also caused delays.

The technical capacity of the State Secretariat of Environment and Water Resources (SEMARH) suffered during
the course of project implementation, as the State’s financial constraints impeded the hiring of permanent staff to
the Secretariat and no career plan was implemented for SEMARH. Throughout implementation, both SEMARH
and the State of Rio Grande do Norte Water Management Institute (IGARN) were staffed by personnel lent from
other government institutions or temporary consultants. Frequent staff and administration turnover undermined
project continuity and contributed to further implementation delays.


   Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    According to the ICR (page 21, para 84), the PMU coordinator and team (who were all consultants hired by the
project) remained engaged and committed to deliver throughout the implementation process. Performance was
hindered by political decisions and election pressures during 2010, but the new team that took over after 2011
made substantial improvements to project implementation and the ICR reports on strong performance in the
compliance of environmental safeguards and implementation of environmental impact compensation measures.

However, limited procurement capacity in the PMU caused major contracting delays and slowed implementation,
and as a result, important project activities were not completed (or even initiated) before closing.

Furthermore, the implementing agency showed limited capacity in leading and coordinating the participating
institutional actors in the project. Given the multi-faceted design of the project, many different institutions were
responsible for the various activities, and the Implementing Agency IA did not have the capacity to lead and
coordinate implementation. Implementation also suffered at times due to limited PMU capacity to execute and
coordinate project activities, as well as difficulties in complying with Bank rules and procedures (p 6, para 28).
During contracting of initial activities, the PMU’s lack of market knowledge led to weaknesses in drafting Terms of
References and evaluating contractor proposals. Also, limited PMU capacity in terms of insufficient contract
management and oversight of contractors, combined with weak contractors, resulted at times in poor quality of
outputs. Issues with contractors included low product quality, delays in delivering final products and failure to
incorporate PMU (p 6, footnote 13). This also led to activities being unfinished or reduced in scope.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The M&E design was very weak. The Results Framework presented in the PAD’s Annex 3 “Results Framework and
Monitoring” had major shortcomings, especially in that none of the key indicators for the PDO was relevant to
measure the stated objectives. All the indicators in the Results Framework (including the PDO indicators) would
measure outputs only; none of the indicators was set up to measure any of the project’s expected outcomes.
Furthermore, as outlined in the ICR (page 7, para 32), the results framework included unrealistic targets and missing
baseline values with regard to water law indicators established during implementation. The target was to reduce the
water loss by 20%. However, it was not possible to get accurate baseline information as no measurement system was
in place. According to the project team, the water company did not know how much they were losing at the outset, due
to the lack of meters, and this was one of the reasons why the targets were unrealistic and had to be adjusted during
implementation.


 b. M&E Implementation:
      Plans were made for the PMU to use the federal Environmental Management Information System (SIGMA) as
an information management tool for monitoring project implementation (PAD p 15, para 63 and ICR page 7, para 33).
However, due to issues with the operation and maintenance of the system at the Ministry of Environment level, it was
not operationalized. Progress data were collected and reported on a manual basis. The ICR does not provide any
information as to the quality of the M&E data that were collected in this manner. A project information system was
implemented during the last year of execution. According to the project team, this information system collects mainly
financial data and data on procurement.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   There is no evidence in the ICR to indicate that information from project M&E was used to amend the
implementation approach. The ICR reports, however (p 8 para 34) that the lack of an operational M&E system at
Effectiveness and the delay in installation of an adequate M&E system made management and coordination of the
project activities more difficult than foreseen. The co-executing agencies also failed in providing necessary
information, according to the ICR (page 8, para 34).

M&E Quality Rating: Negligible




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
The project was classified as Environmental Category B, triggering the following safeguards: OP/BP 4.01
Environmental Assessment; OP/BP 4.04 Natural Habitats; OP/BP 4.09 Pest Management; and OP/BP 4.37 Safety of
Dams. According to the ICR (p 8, para 35), a thorough Environmental Assessment Report (EAR) was produced,
consulted and disclosed by the State. The EAR included an adequate Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
covering all 4 OP/BPs and containing mitigation actions to address adverse impacts, the associated costs and
responsibilities, as well as the EMP implementation schedule. No resettlement was planned or required by the project.
A Dam Safety panel was successfully created to comply with the Bank’s safeguard requirement to accompany the
preparation of designs for dam rehabilitation.

According to the ICR, (p 8, para 36), the project team ensured full environmental compliance of activities under the
project, despite initial challenges during the first two years of implementation. No external mission certified
compliance, but the project employed a fully qualified expert who assessed the activities’ compliance with the EMP
throughout implementation. Challenges were overcome, and all activities that were carried out were properly licensed.
However, the cost and time requirements for environmental licensing and safeguard compliance were not adequately
planned or budgeted for at preparation, leading to significant delays during implementation.


b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial Management
A financial management post review carried out in August 2014 found that overall FM was satisfactory, staff
competence was good and proper procedures for internal control were in place. Several Financial Management
supervision missions were carried out during the course of the project, and in general, they identified minimal
shortcomings, which the project team rectified satisfactorily. According to the project team, annual audits were
undertaken and none of them was qualified.

Procurement
Most of the key activities of the procurement plan were completed, although at a low pace throughout the life of the
project. Consultant selection processes suffered from significant delays; on average 300 days were devoted to the
selection of a consulting firm. Delays in procurement processes and contracts were due to several factors: difficulties
to produce timely and quality terms of reference and in attracting and maintaining qualified procurement specialists:
weak bidding documents that required several rounds of review from the Bank: lack of experience working with the
private sector: inadequate contract management; and unsatisfactory performance of consulting firms. The Bank
provided procurement training, but the Secretariat suffered from continuous budget constraints which reduced its
capacity to provide necessary support for the project.


 c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
The ICR states that all impacts from the project were intended, which indicates that potential unintended impacts were
not identified by project staff or ICR team. There is no reflection upon what the unintended impacts of this project
might have been for some of the people in the project area.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                              ICR                IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                Moderately             Outcome is Moderately Unsatisfactory,
                              Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory         as Efficacy is Modest due to the
                                                                               output-focused reporting and lack of
                                                                               evidence for achievement of outcomes,
                                                                               and Efficiency is Modest due to a large
                                                                               amount of undisbursed funds and
                                                                               planned activities not implemented.

          Risk to Development Significant               Significant
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Moderately                Moderately             Bank performance is rated Moderately
                              Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory due to the relatively
                                                                               weak preparation of parts of this
                                                                                 project, and especially the Results
                                                                                 Framework and the M&E plans. Bank
                                                                                 Supervision and restructurings failed to
                                                                                 address the significant weakness in the
                                                                                 results framework and the inadequate
                                                                                 M&E. This resulted in the project’s
                                                                                 inability to demonstrate its (potential)
                                                                                 outcomes. There was also a high
                                                                                 turnover of TTLs for this project.
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                              Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
              Quality of ICR:                               Unsatisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

 13. Lessons:
  Lessons 2-4 are drawn from the ICR, and lesson 1 is introduced by IEG.
1.       A sound M&E design is crucial for the project to be able to demonstrate achievements. Without a sound
         M&E system and a sound theory of change reflected in the PDO and in the indicators, a project and the
         Bank miss the opportunity to learn about what works and what does not work in Bank financed
         development interventions. Furthermore, without a sound M&E system, a project is unable to
         demonstrate its achievements to the PDO.
2.       Streamlined projects with focused activities may prove easier for low-capacity Borrowers to implement.
         Diverse and numerous activities can create a heavy implementation burden for the Borrower.
3.       Ensuring institutional capacity to sustain results, both in terms of institutional change and infrastructural
         improvements, must start at preparation..
4.       Major staff and administration turnover at the Government and Implementing Agency levels are likely to
         impact the already low institutional and technical capacity of a Borrower to implement and sustain
         results.


14. Assessment Recommended?                   Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR gives an adequate description of the project’s components, activities and implementation – both in terms of
achievements of outputs and the challenges faced during implementation. However, the quality of evidence and the
quality of analysis is low. Considerable information had to be drawn from the project team that could have been
covered in the ICR.

The ICR reports mainly on outputs. The information of achievement of outcomes is weak, and the ICR is not
results-oriented. The few claims for outcomes achieved are not backed up by evidence or background data.

Furthermore, the ICR makes explicit assertions not backed up by evidence. For example, by stating: “Improved WRM
is key to providing socially and environmentally sustainable economic development in RGN and, by its very nature,
the impact of the project would be felt throughout the economy of the State and by all segments of society”.;

There is no discussion of attribution or counterfactuals in the ICR. .

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Unsatisfactory
