Document of                           l           iY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3473-ZR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$25 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR A
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
February 25, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          =  Zaire (Z)
Z1.00                  =  US$0.18
US$1.00                =  Z5.50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)            =  3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)       =  0.62 mile
1 sq kilometer (km2)  =  0.386 square miles
1 square meter (m2)   =10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m3)    =  1.13 cubic yards
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB      =  African Development Bank
CFMK      =  Chemin de Fer de Matadi a Kinshasa
(Matadi to Kinshasa Railway)
CMZ       =  Compagnie Maritime Zairoise
(National Shipping Company)
FAC       =  Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
(Aide and Cooperation Fund)
Gecamines =  La Generale des Carrieres et des Mines
(General Mines and Quarries Company)
GEEP      =  Groupe d'Etudes, Economie et Planification
(The economic studies and Planning Section of
MTC)
KfW       =  Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaufbau
(Federal Republic of Germany)
MP        =  Ministry of Planning
MPW       =  Ministry of Public Works
MTC       =  Ministry of Transport and Communications
OR        =  Office des Routes
(National Highways Bureau)
ONATRA    =  Office National des Transports
(National Transport Bureau)
PCR       =  Project Completion Report
PIP       =  Public Investment Program
RVA       =  Regie des Voies Aeriennes
(National Airways Authority)
RVF       =  Regie des Voies Fluviales
(National River Authority)
RVM       =  Regie des Voies Maritimes
(National Maritime Authority)
SNCZ      =  Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois
(National Railway Company)
TEU       =  Twenty-foot Equivalent Unit
VN        =  Voie Nationale
(the Rail/River Transport System)
ZOFI      =  Zone Franche d'Inga
(the Free Zone at Inga)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAIRE
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower              : Republic of Zaire
Beneficiary           : Office National des Transports (ONATRA)
Amount                :  SDR 23.1 million (US$25.0 million equivalent)
Terms                    Standard IDA terms
Relending Terms       : Fourteen years, including 4 years of grace, at an annual
interest rate of 15 percent.
Co-lenders            : African Development Bank (AfDB) US$21.0 million
equivalent, for 19 years, including 4 years of grace, at
11.5 percent interest per annum; Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique (CCCE-France), US$5.0 million
equivalent, 15 years, including 5 years of grace, at 10
percent per annum; and Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
(FAC-France), US$1.0 million equivalent (grant).
Project Description      The Project seeks to rehabilitate the deep-water port at
M4atadi and the river port at Kinshasa, and includes:
civil works for the reconstruction or construction of
quays and related facilities and service systems;
procurement of cargo handling and fire-fighting
equipment, and replacement of ONATRA's main computer;
and the provision of consulting services for supervision
of civil works, technical assistance, training and
studies.
Project Benefits      : The main benefit of the Project would be to arrest the
deterioration of the facilities and improve the
productivity of the two ports which handle the bulk of
Zaire's international trade and, in the case of
Kinshasa, a major portion of national trade as well.
Technical risks associated with the Project are minimal,
given the proven capability of ONATRA, and the
supervision of works by consultants.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
Estimated Costs                  Local       Foreign        Total
(net of taxes) 1/                  ....... US$ thousand .
Civil works at Matadi           7,584.3      10,326.7      18,411.0
Civil works at Kinshasa        19,634.7      15,687.3      35,322.0
Equipment:  Matadi                 126.5      1,134.5       1,260.0
Kinshasa              383.5       6,535.5      6,919.0
Computer              242.0         968.0      1,210.0
Consulting services:
to ONATRA                1,174.0       4,161.0       5,335.0
to Government               55.0         220.0         275.0
Total Baseline Costs        29,200.0      39,533.0      68,733.0
Physical contingencies           2,852.0      3,819.0       6,671.0
Price contingencies             5,948.0       8,648.0      14,596.0
Total Project Costs          38,000.0      52,000.0      90,000.0
Financing Plan                      Local      Foreign        Total
........ S$ million 
IDA                                   25.0          25.0
AfDB                                  21.0          21.0
CCCE                                   5.0           5.0
FAC                                    1.0           1.0
ONATRA                  38.0                        38.0
TOTAL                 38.0          52.0          90.0
Estimated IDA Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Years                   1984     1985      1986     1987
......... US$ million ...........                     V
Annual                  4.0       8.5      8.5       4.0
Cumulative                 4.0      12.5     21.0      25.0
Economic Rate of Return: 35 percent for 95 percent of project costs (Matadi
Port: 50 percent; Kinshasa Port: 25 percent).
Appraisal Report: Report No. 4169-ZR, dated February 16, 1983
Maps: IBRD 16564, 16566, 16567
IF The Government of Zaire has exempted the project from customs duties and
from local turnover tax.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR A PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Zaire for the equivalent of SDR 23.1
million (US$25.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a
ports rehabilitation project. The proceeds of the proposed Credit (except for
the equivalent of US$500,000, for studies) would be relent by the Republic of
Zaire to the Office National des Transports (ONATRA) for a period of 14 years,
including 4 years of grace, at an interest rate of 15 percent per annum.
Co-financing for the Project is being considered by the African Development Bank
(AfDB) for the equivalent of US$21.0 million; by the Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique (CCCE-France), for the equivalent of US$5.0 million, and
by the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC-France), for US$1.0 million
equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      The last economic memorandum (Report No. 3287-ZR) was distributed on
June 8, 1981 and focused on developments in 1979 and 1980. An economic mission
visited Zaire in March 1982; its report has been recently discussed with the
Government and will be distributed in January 1983.
Background
3.      Zaire is the third largest country in Africa in terms of area and the
fifth largest in terms of population, but its GNP per capita, estimated at about
US$220 in 1980, ranks among the lowest in the continent. Approximately
one-third of its population of about 28 million live in urban areas, and the
population density is 12 persons per sq. km. Urbanization has been proceeding
at a rate of about 7 percent per annum, or more than two and a half times the
rate of population growth. Although agriculture (commercialized and
subsistence) normally accounts for 30 percent of GDP, it provides employment and
income for more than three-quarters of the population. Mining and
mineral-processing normally account for about 18 percent of GDP; this sector has
traditionally been the largest source of public revenue and provides more than
two-thirds of the country's export earnings. (The shares cited are 1979-81
averages).
4.      When Zaire gained independence in 1960, it was ill-prepared for the
change, both technically and institutionally. The first six to seven years
following independence were marked by violent political strife and a severe
disruption of the economy. But after the restoration of political order and
stability in 1967, GDP grew by about 7 percent in real terms annually until
1974. Since then, however, Zaire has been experiencing serious economic
difficulties which have brought about a continuous decline in per capita income.
1/ This section is reprinted verbatim from Report No. P-3447-ZR, of January 11,
1983; (Report and Recommendation of the President for a Northeast Rural
Development Project).



-2-
Beginning of Current Difficulties
5.      Although the downswing of the Zairian economy started in 1975, the
current difficulties of Zaire are in many respects the result of developments
which took place in earlier years. Among these were: the progressive
accentuation of the country's dependence on the mining sector, accompanied by
the relative neglect of agricultural production; heavy external borrowing during
1973-74, mostly from private banks, at average terms inconsistent with Zaire's
level of development and for projects with long gestation periods and uncertain
economic benefits; and attempts to change drastically the ownership structure of
the economy through the zairianization and nationalization measures of 1973-74.
Though since rescinded, the zairianization and nationalization measures had
particularly adverse and lasting effects on the economy: they seriously damaged
private sector confidence both at home and abroad, severely disrupted the
transport and marketing, links between urban centers and the interior, and
resulted in the neglect of the country's productive capacity and
infrastructure. The deterioration of Zaire's terms of trade since 1975, owing
largely to the fall in the international price of copper, was a major
contributor to both the severity and the duration of the crisis.
6.      Zaire's attempts to cope with the crisis were uneven and uncoordinated.
As a result, by 1978, commercialized GDP contracted to about 10 percent below
the pre-crisis (1972-74) level; the overall budgetary deficit attained a record
level equivalent to about 12 percent of commercialized GDP; and deficit
financing, together with the worsening shortages of basic consumer goods, fuel
and intermediate products, pushed the annual inflation rate to about 50
percent. Although the decline of GDP was arrested in 1979, the economy
continued to face serious difficulties that year. The budgetary deficit, though
reduced, was financed entirely by recourse to the domestic banking system.
This, plus the acceleration of credit to the rest of the economy, continued to
exert pressure on prices, which rose by more than 100 percent in the capital
city during the year. The balance of payments also remained under strong
pressure, as evidenced by a further accumulation of external payment arrears --
a trend which had started in 1975. On December 31, 1979, arrears (including
those on short-term commercial debt and invisibles) amounted to about US$1.8
billion. Although two stabilization programs, supported by the IMF, were
adopted and three debt rescheduling agreements under the Paris Club were
concluded during the 1975-79 period, these could not be implemented and
therefore brought limited relief.
Developments since 1979
7.      Despite the mixed performance, the year 1979 saw the beginning of more
systematic efforts by Zaire and its major donors to deal with the crisis.
First, in August 1979 Zaire adopted a new stabilization program designed to
contain the overall balance of payments deficit, curb the rate of inflation, and
thereby create the conditions for a resumption of economic growth. Second,
Zaire negotiated debt rescheduling agreements with the Paris Club (December
1979) and the syndicated private banks (April 1980). Third, Zaire started a
process of institutional reforms, including the gradual establishment of a more
systematic process of approval, programming and monitoring of public investments
(see next section).



- 3 -
8.      These efforts produced considerable improvements in 1980.  GDP expanded
by 2.4 percent in real terms, aided by a strong recovery in copper production;
exports rose in nominal terms as did imports; and the external current account
balance showed a small surplus for the second straight year, in sharp contrast
to the average annual deficit of nearly US$600 million registered during
1976-78. Government finances also improved. The budgetary deficit was reduced
by about two fifths in nominal terms and amounted to 1.9 percent of GDP. The
easing of the supply situation, together with the restraint in government
borrowing, contributed to lowering the annual rate of inflation by more than
half -- to about 44 percent -- despite the devaluation of the zaire by about 30
percent (vis-a-vis the SDR) early in the year.  At the same time, Zaire observed
all the performance criteria under the IMF-supported stabilization program for
1980 and was able to purchase the full amount (SDR 118 million)
allowed under the stand-by arrangement. In addition, it largely complied with
the debt rescheduling agreements with the Paris Club and the syndicated private
banks by nearly doubling its external public debt service payments.
9.      Largely on the strength of this improved performance, in mid-1981 Zaire
adopted a three-year program of economic and financial adjustment supported by
an "Extended Facility" (EFF) from the IMF in an amount equivalent to SDR 912
million. The program had three basic objectives: (i) to achieve an average
annual growth rate of real GDP of 3 percent; (ii) to reduce the rate of domestic
inflation to 25 percent by 1983; and (iii) to contain the external current
account deficit in 1983 to 5 percent of nominal GDP. Zaire also concluded (in
July 1981) a new debt rescheduling agreement with the Paris Club under which the
creditors agreed to the rescheduling of some of the previously rescheduled
maturities as well as the new (not previously rescheduled) debt falling due in
1981 and 1982. However, economic performance during the year fell below
expectations because of external as well as internal factors. The weakening of
the copper and cobalt markets caused Zaire's merchandise exports to fall by
about US$460 million (or 24 percent) in nominal terms. Although the decline in
nominal imports was kept to 10 percent, real imports were lower than at any year
during the crisis and, indeed, were 40-50 percent below the pre-crisis level.
As a result of these developments as well as a weakening of fiscal discipline,
the budgetary deficit expanded five-fold in nominal terms -- to the equivalent
of 8 percent of commercialized GDP. Net government borrowing from the domestic
banking system exceeded the target under the medium-term program by a large
margin. Zaire could not comply with either the criteria under the Extended Fund
Facility or the July 1981 debt rescheduling agreement; it began accumulating
external debt arrears in the third quarter of 1981, and the EFF was formally
cancelled effective June 21, 1982.
10.     Zaire's economic difficulties were accentuated in 1982.  In March 1982
Zaire was able to puchase SDR 107 million under the IMF Compensatory Financing
Facility, but this provided limited relief as copper and cobalt prices continued
to weaken. Merchandise exports in 1982 are estimated to have been at least
US$200 million (15 percent) less than in 1981 and US$650-700 million (33-36
percent) less than in 1980. Furthermore, efforts to curtail expenditures --in
the face of a sharply reduced resource base-- have proven insufficient. As a



- 4 -
result, the budgetary deficit was expected to double in 1982; the inflation
rate, which fell to 30 percent in the first three quarters of the year, seems to
be accelerating; and the exchange rate, which has not been changed since
mid-1981, has come under strong pressure. Zaire has also encountered serious
difficulties in meeting its external debt service obligations. External public
debt arrears may total US$800 million at the end of the year.
Government Measures
11.     During the years 1979-80, Zaire took a number of important steps under
the Mobutu Plan, which the Government viewed as a broad-based and multipronged
effort to achieve recovery in dialogue with and with assistance from the major
donors. These steps included the installation of an expatriate deputy governor
as well as technical advisers, all proposed by the IMF, at the Bank of Zaire.
Zaire also appointed an expatriate controller general, proposed by the UNDP, to
the Ministry of Finance. In addition, as part of an effort to reform its
customs operations, Zaire transformed the Customs Division of the Ministry of
Finance into a public organization known as the Office of Customs and Duties
(OFIDA). This new undertaking has received substantial technical and
administrative support from Belgium. Also noteworthy was the creation of a
Central Pay Directorate which is functioning with the assistance of French
experts. Moreover, the Government reaffirmed through various actions its
commitment to expanding the role of and its reliance on the private sector.
Seven inefficient "commodity offices" were dissolved and some agricultural
producer prices were raised. Under a scheme of "development agreements", an
effort was initiated to involve private industry in the rehabilitation of
agriculture and related infrastructure. A new investment code was promulgated,
and a number of reforms were undertaken in the management of state enterprises.
12.     In 1979, attention was directed to the preparation of a medium-term
Public Investment Program (PIP), and the World Bank was asked to assist the
Zairian authorities in this endeavor. In August 1979, the Government completed
a program for the period 1979-81, focusing largely on rehabilitation needs in
priority sectors such as agriculture, mining and transportation. The execution
of the PIP during 1979-80 was constrained primarily by the shortage of resources
and the execution of certain on-going projects which had not been included in
the PIP: only 40 percent of the PIP could be executed, compared to 60 percent
foreseen under the program.
13.     In mid-1981, in conjunction with the medium-term program supported by
the EFF, the Zairian authorities took a number of interrelated steps toward
stimulating supply, keeping the growth of demand within appropriate limits, and
improving foreign exchange management. In June 1981 the zaire was devalued by a
further 40 percent vis-a-vis the SDR; interest rates were adjusted upward; and
the existing price controls on most goods were removed in order to stimulate the
private sector. In addition to completing a revised PIP for 1981-83, Zaire
began preparing an Agricultural Action Plan in order to bring about improvements
in the following areas: (i) strengthening of institutions; (ii) policies for



pricing, marketing, credit, and foreign exchange allocation; (iii)
implementation of on-going projects; (iv) investment programming for the sector;
and (v) research, extension and training. The Action Plan was discussed at a
meeting of the Consultative Group for Zaire held in June 1982. The Zairian
authorities cooperated with the IMF and the Bank in the preparation of a fiscal
study which comprised the budgetary process, (with emphasis on the control over
expenditures), tax reform and the tax regime of Gecamines (the state-owned
company producing most of Zaire's copper and all of its cobalt). This study was
completed in May 1982.
14.     In 1982, Zaire made additional attempts to improve economic management
and institutional performance. The Ministry of Agriculture was significantly
reorganized as part of a broad program of institutional reforms for the sector.
The Government appointed new, more broadly-based Executive Boards for Gecamines
and Sozacom (the state-owned company marketing the bulk of Gecamines' output);
important changes were made in the top management of Gecamines; and a new
marketing arrangement between the two firms was approved. Furthermore, the
Government announced the decision to "privatize" the ownership and/or management
of 37 inefficient public enterprises, and it further relaxed the remaining price
controls. The Government proceeded at the same time to implement a policy of
"decentralization" whose apparent objective is to give the regions mDre
autonomy.
Prerequisites for Recovery
15.     The difficulties experienced by Zaire since 1975 have had a heavy
economic and social cost. Much of the country's productive capacity and
infrastructure has deteriorated, and real wages and salaries have declined by
more than half. The main causes of this deterioration have been the depressed
level of world commodity prices, the weaknesses of institutions, the inadequacy
of administrative controls, and deficiencies of economic decision-making.
These, together with an inappropriate fiscal regime, have resulted in the
growing decapitalization of the main mining firms, especially Gecamines. In the
last two years, with the cooperation of the international community, significant
progress has been made in defining the policies and actions necessary for
recovery, and a number of important decisions have already been announced by
Zaire. The implementation of these policies, however, has not been sufficiently
vigorous or consistent, particularly in the areas of prices, the exchange rate,
tax reform, investment planning, and expenditure control. While the growth of
expenditures appears to have decelerated in the last few months, greater efforts
are required to compress them further and to improve their allocation.
16.     Although Zaire' exports are expected to improve in the next three years,
largely because of the anticipated recovery of copper prices, Zaire's resource
constraints will remain severe. This is partly due to the external public debt
burden. The contractual debt service due in the next three years is equivalent
to about 45 percent of projected exports of goods and nonfactor services --a
ratio which would seem incompatible with even a modest economic recovery.
Moreover, as a result of the sharp drop in commitments over the last few years,
the undisbursed project pipeline --the source of future disbursements-- has been
reduced to US$670 million, compared to US$1.2 billion in 1975. The medium-term
outlook for bilateral and multilateral assistance is uncertain.



17.     The Zairian authorities are aware that in these circumstances they will
need to take stronger actions to: (i) bring the foreign exchange rate to a more
appropriate level, (ii) generalize the application of the price liberalization
measures, (iii) reduce the budgetary deficit by implementing the recommendations
of the recently completed IMF/Bank fiscal study, (iv) create the conditions for
improving the prospects of financing Gecamines' rehabilitation program, (v)
implement the Agricultural Action Plan, bearing in mind that a number of
policies remain to be formulated; and (vi) revitalize the public investment
programming and monitoring process. The most urgent priority is to reach a new
agreement with the IMF, as this will relieve the resource pressure and open the
way for a new external debt rescheduling agreement, which is urgently needed.
An IMF mission visited Zaire in December 1982 in order to assess recent economic
developments and prospects and to carry out preliminary discussions on an
adjustment program that could be supported by the use of Fund resources.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE 1/
18.     From 1969 to date IDA has approved 30 credits totalling about US$451
million for agriculture, transport, development finance company operations,
water supply, power and education projects. The Bank Group has also extended
grants totaling US$400,000 as contributions toward the cost of two planning
assistance projects in Zaire. In 1975, the Bank made a loan of US$100 million
for the Gecamines Mining Expansion Project, which was cofinanced by the European
Investment Bank and by the Libyan Arab Foreign Bank, and which provided for
special repayment arrangements linked to the project's export earnings. The
most recent credit approved was for SDR 12.3 million ($13.0 million) for a rural
development project in the northeast of Zaire. The IFC, which has a US$760,000
equity participation in the Societe Financiere de Developpement Economique
(SOFIDE), approved a US$4.1 million loan in 1978 for an offshore oil production
project and a US$230,000 loan in 1982 for studies related to the development of
an aluminium complex at Banana.   Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of September 30, 1982 and notes on the
status of ongoing projects.
19.     A main objective of Bank Group operations in Zaire has been institution
building. The development finance company (SOFIDE) was established in 1970 with
assistance from IFC and IDA. The major transport agencies, ONATRA, Societe
Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois (SNCZ), Regie des Voies Fluviales (RVF),
Regie des Voies Maritimes (RVM) and Office des Routes (OR), received technical
and financial assistance from the Association, which also helped establish the
National Livestock Development Authority (ONDE). In the case of Gecamines, the
Bank loan originated a dialogue, still ongoing, intended to define ways and
means to strengthen the management, financial position and planning of the
company.
1/ This section is substantially the same as Part II of Report No. P-3447-ZR.



- 7 -
20.     In general, project implementation has been difficult due to the
country's inadequate manpower and management capability and, in recent years,
because of the economic crisis. In the last two or three years, release of the
required budgetary funds has been difficult periodically because of budgetary
constraints. Lack of foreign exchange to finance spare parts and fuel, and the
deterioration of the transport network and marketing system have resulted in
severe supply problems for most projects. Recruiting and retaining adequate
staff has also been difficult. In January 1980 the Bank undertook with Zairian
officials an overall review of Bank Group projects which, for the first time,
provided an integrated view of implementation problems. This has resulted in an
acceleration and improvement in the utilization of Bank Group assistance,
particularly in the agricultural sector.
21.     Ten credits and one loan have been totally disbursed:  Credits 152, 292,
and 536-ZR (First, Second and Third Highway Projects); Credit 255-CK (River
Transport Project); Credit 272-CK (Education Project); Credit 398-ZR (Livestock
Project); Credits 190, 271, and 463-ZR (First, Second and Third SOFIDE
Projects); Credit 625-ZR (Water Supply) and Loan 1090-ZR (Gecamines).
Completion reports have been issued for all projects except Water Supply and
Gecamines, and Performance Audit Reports have been issued for the First SOFIDE
and the first Highway Projects. The conclusion of the audit and completion
reports was that the Bank Group's impact on institution building had been
mixed. SOFIDE was evolving as an effective and competent institution, and the
Office des Routes, the highway agency, had been able to establish an effective
administrative set-up. On the other hand, ONATRA's performance had not improved
as a result of the first River Transport Project but did improve under a
follow-up project; implementation by RVF and RVM had disappointing results, but
financial results of operations had improved. All entities had encountered
operating difficulties beyond their control as the economy deteriorated,
financial resources grew scarcer and the problems besetting the investment
environment were exacerbated by Government's zairianization/radicalization
measures. Bank Group support to SOFIDE and the OR is continuing under the
Fourth and Fifth SOFIDE projects (Crs. 710 and 998-ZR) and Fourth and
FifthHighway Projects (Cr. 916-ZR and Cr. 1290-ZR). RVF and RVM received
assistance through a second River Transport Project (Cr. 571-ZR); and ONATRA
will benefit from the ongoing Modernization Project (Cr. 1180-ZR).
22.     The rate of disbursement to Zaire is average for the Eastern Africa
Region. For fiscal years 1979-81, disbursements totalled US$101 million
compared with new commitments of US$105 million. In this same period, the
average annual disbursement rate was 24 percent; this compares favorably with
an average rate of about 20 percent for other countries of the region. While
disbursement performance in general is satisfactory, difficulties have arisen in
several projects. In the case of early credits for transport, education and
livestock (Credits 255-ZR, 272-ZR and 398-ZR), the lack of a strong project
entity caused implementation delays. Economic conditions were also a factor in
slowing project programs in instances where government counterpart funds were



- 8 -
not available (Third Highway, Credit 660-ZR; Second Education, Credit
624-ZR) and where the investment environment experienced slow recovery from
the aftermath of abrupt nationalization (Fourth SOFIDE, Credit 710-ZR).
Future project implementation should be less affected by the above
influences given the strengthening of institutions under subsequent
projects and efforts by the Government to improve budgetary support of
IDA-financed projects. At the end of 1981, the Bank Group's share of
Zaire's total debt disbursed and outstanding was less than 10 percent.
23.     In the past three years, the Bank Group's main efforts have been
directed towards assisting in the rehabilitation and development of the
agriculture and transport sectors, in part through the design and
implementation of appropriate new policies. Investments in industry were
also emphasized through assistance to SOFIDE. Our lending will continue to
support the transport sector, (in particular the Voie Nationale); to assist
the development of the agriculture sector within the framework of the new
Agricultural Action Plan (see para. 13 above) and to promote the
development of the industrial and mining sectors. In addition, further
support will be considered for the energy sector. In this connection, IDA
and other co-financiers are considering a large regional (Burundi/Rwanda/
Zaire) hydro-electric project on the Ruzizi River.
PART III -THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Background
24.       The transport sector is critical to the development of Zaire
given the country's size (about 2.3 million km2) and because several
population centers and important activities, such as agriculture and
mining, are land-locked and in some cases are more than 2000 km from the
Atlantic Ocean. The most important element in Zaire's transport network is
the river system which provides 15,000 km of navigable waterways. The
railways (about 5000 km) were constructed to complement the river network
by bypassing non-navigable sections of rivers. Roads were built to provide
local access and to feed into the rail and river network. Matadi, the
country's main seaport, and Kinshasa, the hub of all inland routes, are the
two focal points of the transport network. There are about 150 airfields
and airstrips in Zaire of which 30 are served by local airlines. Three
airfields can accommodate wide-bodied aircraft. Two pipelines transport
refined petroleum products from Matadi to Kinshasa.
25.       Zaire's principal traffic corridor is the Voie Nationale (VN), a
transport chain (rail-river-rail) stretching nearly 2,700 km from the
mineral-rich Shaba Region to the Atlantic Ocean at the mouth of the Zaire
River. The VN is strategically important to Zaire because it is the only
transport corridor to the ocean entirely within Zaire. Minerals from Shaba
are the main traffic item on the VN; in 1981 the VN carried about 275,000
tons of minerals, or about 50 per cent of Zaire's mineral exports. The
remaining 50 per cent of mining output was exported by (i) the southern
route, via the Zambia/Zimbabwe Railway to ports in the Republic of South



- 9 -
Africa (43 per cent) and (ii) the Kalemie-Kigoma route, via the Tanzanian
Railway to Dar es Salaam. Until its closure in 1975, the Benguela railway
through Angola to the port of Lobito was the external route most heavily
used by Zaire. At one time or another most foreign routes have proved
unreliable (owing to military or civil strife, international disputes,
railway or port congestion) and their foreign exchange cost is high. Zaire
has, therefore, correctly decided that priority should be given to
improving the capacity of the VN.
26.       While the basic transport infrastructure is in place, there are
severe limitations on its effectiveness. Shortages of spare parts, and
more recently of fuels, have critically impaired the use of equipment.
Insufficient investment and maintenance over many years have resulted in an
accumulation of worn out, unreliable and outmoded equipment and facilities
that translate into poor service and high transport costs.
Sector Organization
27.       The organization of the sector, largely the result of extensive
studies prepared about a decade ago, is basically sound and for the time
being does not require major reform. Three large parastatal agencies
dominate the transport sector: (i) the Office National des Transports
(ONATRA), which provides transport services on inland waterways, rail
services between Matadi and Kinshasa and which operates all but one of the
principal ports; (ii) the Office des Routes (OR), which builds and
maintains about 41,000 km of main roads; and (iii) the Societe Nationale
des Chemins de Fer ZaTrois (SNCZ), which operates the country's railways
(except the Matadi-Kinshasa line). In addition, five transport agencies or
public companies have the following responsibilities: (i) Regie des Voies
Fluviales (RVF) is charged with maintaining and operating navigation aids
and services on navigable waterways; (ii) Regie des Voies Maritimes (RVM)
is responsible for maintaining and operating the navigational markings and
pilotage services on the Zaire estuary from the port of Matadi to the
ocean; (iii) Regie des Voies Aeriennes (RVA) builds, maintains and operates
airports; (iv) Air Zaire, the state-owned airline; and (v) Compagnie
Maritime Zairoise (CMZ), the national shipping company. All these agencies
are under the technical control of the Ministry of Transport (except for
OR, which is under the Ministry of Public Works) and the financial control
of the Ministry of "Portefeuille". In addition to these public agencies,
private carriers also play an increasingly important role. In river and
air-transport, as well as in the Matadi-Kinshasa corridor, they handle
about 30 percent of traffic.
Sector Strategy and Issues
28.       The Government's main objectives in the sector over the past few
years have been: (i) to focus the limited available resources on
rehabilitation and maintenance of the main transport network; (ii) to
improve operations through strengthening of management and training; and
(iii) to improve the capacity of major routes, essentially the VN. The
Association agrees with this strategy and has designed its short and medium
term assistance to the sector along these lines.



- 10 -
29.       Zaire's current (1981-83) Public Investment Program (PIP)
allocates 27 per cent of total investments to transport, making it second
to mining (31 per cent) in importance. Investments for rehabilitation
constitute the bulk of the program in the transport sector. Replacement
and modernization are included only when existing facilities have become
totally inadequate,as in the case for container handling facilities.   The
Ministry of Transport (MTC) has made efforts to improve planning through
the Groupe d'Etudes, Economie et Planification (GEEP), its planning and
policy analysis unit, which has performed satisfactorily in the past within
a difficult context. Although the PIP and GEEP are important to the
planning process, investement priorities in the transport sector still need
to be better assessed. For instance, the Government is studying the
possibility of creating a deep water port on the Atlantic Ocean at Banana,
an undertaking which might be justified in the longer term if and when an
industrial zone is established in that area, but which is presently not
economically justified. Economic and feasibility studies of an aluminum
smelter at Banana are now being carried out by consultants to review the
alternative infrastructure investments which would be needed. For these
reasons,the Government has agreed to consult the Association before
undertaking any investment exceeding US$10 million equivalent in the ports,
river and railway sub-sectors (Section 4.03 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
30.       Although management of the main transport agencies has generally
improved, much remains to be done. A management study has recently been
completed for SNCZ and studies are included under the proposed project to
improve operations and determine investment priorities at RVM and
RVF. Improvements are expected at RVF, where the Government has taken
initial steps towards implementing an overall reorganization program.
31.       Given the financial constraints and the inflationary context
Zaire must face, the resources available to the main transport agencies
have sometimes been inadequate. The recent expansion of the Road Fund to
channel taxes to OR should alleviate this problem for roads. On the basis
of available information, overall tariff levels are satisfactory at ONATRA
and SNCZ, with the exception of the tariff for mineral exports. An
increase to cover at least the variable costs of transporting mineral
exports is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed project. (Section
7.01 (d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). There is also a
particular need to improve the regularity of allocation of foreign exchange
to the main agencies so that normal operating requirements are met. While
these issues have usually been tackled at the project level, the dialogue
will be pursued with the Government at the sector level to improve overall
budget and foreign exchange allocation procedures. Discussion of these
matters took place at the last Consultative Group meeting and will be
pursued when a draft Transport Sector Memo is presented to the Government
for review.
Bank Group Experience in the Rail and River Sub-Sector
32.       The Bank Group has supported the Government's maintenance and
rehabilitation/renewal objectives for the sub-sector through four credits,
all since independence. Experience in the highways sub-sector is described
in Annex IV.



- ii -
33.       Implementation of the first rail/river project (Credit 225-ZR),
now fully disbursed, was slow because of management weaknesses and
procurement delays, and the Government's inability to meet local currency
costs. Implementation of the second rail/river project (Credit 571-ZR) has
been more satisfactory largely because management improved significantly at
ONATRA. Completion reports have been issued for these two Projects and
Project Performance Audits are under preparation. The Railway Project
(Credit 902-ZR) is experiencing serious difficulties due to the long delay
in credit effectiveness, inadequate tariffs, limited availability of
foreign exchange, management problems and the recent decision by Arab and
associated financing agencies to stop disbursement for non-project related
reasons. Specific solutions to these problems are under discussion with
the Government. The most recent rail/river project (Credit 1180-ZR of
1982) is just beginning to be implemented.
34.       The major lessons learned from these two projects (Credits 225-ZR
and 571-ZR) and from other Bank Group experience in the sector are that:
(i) strengthening the large autonomous agencies is probably the most
efficient means to restore quickly the sector's overall capacity; (ii) high
quality management is the key to the performance of these agencies, and
(iii) given the scarcity of skilled manpower, technical assistance at
management levels is likely to be necessary for some time to come. These
issues are the subject of continuing discussions between the Bank and the
Government and are specifically addressed in the proposed project.
ONATRA
35.       ONATRA was established in 1971 as an autonomous Government
agency with four operating divisions: Ports, Railways, River Transport,
and Shipyards. It is well-managed by an expatriate Chief Executive who,
since his appointment in 1977, has reorganized ONATRA, placed competent
personnel in key positions and installed an effective reporting and control
system. With a staff of about 20,000, ONATRA is one of the largest
organizations in Zaire; this staffing level is an improvement over the
27,000 of a few years ago when ONATRA was badly overstaffed. Zairan
nationals head all operating departments and hold several other important
positions, yet many key management and technical posts are still filled by
expatriates, many of them under bilateral contracts. ONATRA has prepared a
five-year staffing plan, based on its training program, outlining its
requirements for technical assistance and a process of replacement of
expatriates. The Government and ONATRA have agreed not to make any
substantive changes in the plan without consulting with the Association
(Section 4.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement and Section 3.01(b)
of the draft Project Agreement).
36.       ONATRA's statutes distinguish between property which belongs to
ONATRA (identified in ONATRA's annual reports) and that which belongs to
the Government but the management and operations of which are ONATRA's
responsibility. The public ports of Matadi and Kinshasa belong to the
second category. During negotiations agreement was reached with the
Government and ONATRA that: (a) ONATRA will continue to have responsibility
over the port areas; and (b) no changes will be made in ONATRA's statutes
and "cahier des charges'' without the prior approval of the Association
(Sections 6.01(d) and (e) of the draft Development Credit Agreement)



- 12 -
37.       ONATRA has two investment plans:  The 20-year investment plan
(Plan 2000) involving rehabilitation, replacement of worn-out facilities
and some capacity expansion, gives a broad picture of long-term needs.
Within the framework of this plan, ONATRA annually prepares a five-year
rolling operational plan. The latest version (1982-86) calls for
investments for a total amount of $471 million. Although this plan is the
result of serious and detailed analysis and has already proved to be an
important management tool, the priorities need to be firmed up. This will
be done by ONATRA's new economic and planning unit, which is being
strengthened with the help of the Association.
38.       Total traffic handled by ONATRA began to decline in 1975.
Although the decline was mainly caused by a slump in the Zairan economy,
the deterioration of infrastructure and facilities further reduced
traffic. The mild recovery over the last two years is attributable to
slightly better economic conditions in 1980 and a major improvement in VN's
capacity in 1981. ONATRA has also begun to face stiffer competition for
traffic from private operators. In the Matadi-Kinshasa corridor, its share
of import traffic declined from about 75 per cent in 1976 to 60 per cent in
1981. ONATRA has however, taken numerous measures to meet competition,
including an equipment renewal program, new operating methods and promotion
of container use.
Ports of Matadi and Kinshasa
Matadi
39.       Matadi port is located on the south bank of the Zaire River
estuary, about 140 km from the Atlantic Ocean. The river is navigable for
vessels drawing 8.5 m of water or less but requires continual daily
dredging in a 20-km long central section of the river 30 km upstream from
its mouth. Operation of the port is totally dependant on this dredging,
which is carried out by RVM. Night navigation of the dredged section is
not now feasible and gives rise to considerable ship delays.
40.       Matadi's port facilities, designed for traditional methods of
handling cargo from ship to railway, have become totally obsolete. Modern
handling methods are difficult to employ due to the profusion of railway
tracks and the lack of planned open storage areas and access. One of the
port's main problems is the lack of flat land--it is located on a narrow
strip of land between the river and the steep hills of the river valley.
ONATRA has been converting land behind the berths to accommodate rapidly
increasing containerized cargo, and this work has been undertaken without
creating congestion or interrupting port operations. The port's
services--electricity, fresh water and fire-fighting--have been poorly
maintained over the years and are in poor condition. There are frequent
power failures which disrupt the operation of the quayside cranes; the
water distribution system has major leaks, and valve problems and too few
hydrants constitute a major fire hazard.



- 13 -
41.       Traffic through the port has averaged 1.1 million tons over the
past few years. Matadi port handles about 60 per cent of the country's
imports and 50 to 55 per cent of its exports; the remainder uses the
southern routes. About 400 to 450 ships are handled annually. In 1981 the
port handled an average of 505 tons per ship per day, which compares
favorably with most sub-Saharan ports, and container traffic now accounts
for about 25 percent of total traffic.
42.       The Regie des Voie Maritimes (RVM) maintains navigation on the
Zaire River between the Atlantic Ocean and Matadi. It provides and
maintains all navigational aids (buoys, lights, beacons etc.); provides
pilotage service including the pilot boats; prepares navigation charts; and
carries out the daily dredging to maintain the navigation channel through
the central section of the river.
Kinshasa
43.       The port is located on the south bank of the river not far above
the last rapids upstream from Matadi and at the point where the river
widens into the vast Malebo pool. From Kinshasa upstream the river is
navigable as far as Kinsangani on the Zaire River and Ilebo on the Kasai
River. Because of its location, all river traffic from the interior of
Zaire either converges on Kinshasa or departs from it.
44.       The port borders directly on the city and much of the narrow
space available between the berths and the city, sometimes less than 200 m,
is taken up by railway tracks, sheds and warehouses.The overall condition
of the port infrastructure is poor as most of the facilities are old and
little maintenance has been carried out. Operations are hampered by broken
up pavement surfaces, distorted railway tracks, partially collapsed quay
edges and a general lack of fendering on the quay faces. The "Ex Citas''
quays are the oldest and are in the poorest condition. As at Matadi, the
electricity and fresh water distribution systems are in poor condition.
The condition of infrastructure and the lack of open space for storage has
particularly impeded the handling of copper, containers and logs. The
port's inability to handle container and log traffic is its major problem,
as there is too little storage space. The berths cannot support heavy
cranes and railway services are insufficient.
45.       Traffic was about 650,000 tons in 1980 of which about 45 per cent
was downstream and 55 per cent upstream. In 1980 about 60 per cent of
inward and 30 per cent of outward traffic was for Shaba (via the VN).
Container traffic has grown rapidly, but still only accounts for 14 per
cent of cargo movements. Productivity is low due to several factors: the
poor condition of paving, railway tracks and access routes; the inadequate
port layout; congestion at the berths and in the back-up areas; low
capacity of quay cranes; frequent power failures; and lack of qualified
staff.



- 14 -
PART IV. - THE PROJECT
46.       The proposed project was identified in the mid-1970s but was
delayed considerably because of the changing economic situation in Zaire.
Preparation work was carried out by consultants under IDA financing for a
previous project and a PPF advance which was refinanced under Credit
1180-ZR (ONATRA Modernization Project). Appraisal took place in March
1982. Negotiations were held in Washington between February 7 and 9,
1983. The Zairan delegation was led by the Secretary of State for
Finance. A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report, Republic of Zaire,
Matadi-Kinshasa Ports Rehabilitation Project," No. 4169-ZR, dated February
16, 1983, is being distributed separately. A supplementary project data
sheet is attached as Annex III.
Objectives
47.       The main objective of the proposed project is to improve the
productivity of the ports of Matadi and Kinshasa by implementing the first
and major phase of a master plan which includes rehabilitation of all
facilities; revision of the ports' layouts to suit modern cargo-handling
methods and to simplify operations; and addition of new facilities for
container and log traffic in Kinshasa. The proposed project is an
essential feature within the Government's overall aim of ensuring that
transport deficiencies do not hamper economic recovery. The project is
consistent with the Government's objectives of rehabilitating existing
transport facilities and of increasing utilization of the VN. These
objectives have been supported by the Bank Group and the external
assistance community.
Project Description
Civil Works
48.       Matadi:  The major works will be the rehabilitation of the water
and electrical distribution systems to safe and efficient standards;
reconstruction of the Fuka-Fuka quays, which are the port's principal
container berths; and the rationalization of the port railway network.
Additional elements will be: underwater protection of the Kala-Kala quays
against scouring of the river bed; completion of repaving of stacking
areas, and installation of a new, separate power line to the port
eliminating overloading of the present line which serves both the city of
Matadi and the port.
49.       Kinshasa:  The major works will be the construction of a minimum
of 200 m of new container and log berths, the rehabilitation of the water
and electrical distribution systems, the repaving of stacking areas, the
relocation of a private ferry terminal which now effectively cuts the port
into two sections, and rationalization of the entire railway network.
Other elements of this component are repairs to the Kisangani and concrete
block quays, renewal of the storm-water drainage system, and the
construction of dolphin berths for tugs and barges.



- 15 -
Equipment
50.       New equipment is needed at Matadi for filling and emptying
containers, handling logs and for fire-fighting. This component also
includes some equipment ONATRA needs to reconstruct the Fuka-Fuka quays.
For Kinshasa three heavy-duty cranes will be needed to handle containers
and logs; tractors and trailors will also be acquired to handle 20- and
40-foot containers. The proposed project will also finance the replacement
of ONATRA's main computer and critically needed spare parts.
Consulting Services to ONATRA
51.       (i) Supervision of civil works:  in view of the complexity of the
works, ONATRA will recruit independent consultants to supervise the project
implementation. On the basis of their past involvement, ONATRA intends to
retain the French firm BCEOM for that purpose. (ii) Technical assistance:
employment of the six experts provided under the Modernization Project
(Credit 1180-ZR) will be continued for one additional year. In addition, a
review of ONATRA's technical assistance requirements indicates the need for
eleven additional positions, mostly in the operational departments, for the
next two years. About 12 man-months of technical assistance are also
included to help improve training and organization of ONATRA's computing
department. (iii) Study of Ex-Citas quay at Kinshasa: a testing program
will examine the stability of the quay, which could lead to a satisfactory
solution for rehabilitation under a subsequent project. (iv) A review of
ONATRA's procurement system will be undertaken by consultants, and who also
provide ONATRA's staff with related training.
Consulting Services to the Government
52.       The project includes about 22 man-months of consulting services
to the Government to carry out: (i) an audit of RVM's finances and studies
of its dredging operations and pilotage services; (ii) a study of RVF
operations, finances and investment needs; and (iii) a study of the private
transport sector.
Implementation
53.       ONATRA will be responsible for the implementation of all project
components except the studies which will be carried out under the
responsibility of GEEP. Detailed engineering is almost completed. Most
tender documents were issued in January 1983. Bids will be received by
March 1983. The project is expected to be completed by June 1986. ONATRA
has demonstrated its capability in previous IDA-assisted projects.
Consultants will be retained for the supervision of civil works which will,
for the greater part, be carried out by contractors. However, ONATRA
intends to undertake some civil works by force account in view of the
careful coordination needed to encourage normal port operations while such
work is carried out. The master plan for the port of Kinshasa calls for
the relocation of a passenger ferry terminal (N'Gobila Beach) which is now
in the middle of the port area. Given the need to have the ferry terminal
area available in good time for project activities, it will be agreed that
the N'Gobila Beach terminal area will be vacated by December 31, 1984
(Section 4.05 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 16 -
54.       Operational targets were adopted during negotiations (Section
3.04 of the draft Project Agreement) to monitor improvements in port
productivity and equipment availability resulting from the proposed
project. Productivity targets are set in terms of tons/day/ship, for
Matadi and in tons/day/berth for Kinshasa. (Schedule 2 of the draft Project
Agreement).
Project Cost
55.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$90.0 million
equivalent, net of taxes and duties, with a foreign exchange component of
US$52.0 million, or 58 percent. The proposed Credit of US$25 million would
finance 28 percent of total costs or 48 percent of foreign exchange costs.
Cost estimates are given in January 1983 prices. Physical contingencies,
covering civil works and supervision, were estimated for each project item
and are, on average, 10 percent. Price contingencies, based on Bank Group
inflation estimates, are 8 percent for 1983, 7.5 percent for 1984 and 7
percent for 1985, and thereafter; the same percentage rate has been used
for local and foreign costs, both computed in US dollars, on the assumption
that the progressive devaluation of the zaire would compensate for
increases in local costs. Project costs are net of taxes and duties, as
the Government has expressed its willingness to exempt ONATRA from payment
of these charges in connection with the Project.  Final project costs will
be known when bids are received, before Board presentation of the Project.
The average cost of technical assistance is estimated at US$10,000 per
man/month, and of short-term consulting services, at US$12,000 per
man/month (inclusive of fees, travel and subsistence). The review of
ONATRA's procurement system is expected to cost US$250,000 equivalent over
a two-year period. The cost of supervision of civil works is estimated at
3 percent of the cost of such works.
Financing Plan
56.       The foreign exchange cost of the project will be financed by
external sources. It is proposed that IDA provide a credit of US$25
million on standard IDA terms. The African Development Bank (AfDB) will
provide US$21 million equivalent at a 11.5 percent interest for 19 years
including a 4 year grace period. The Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique (CCCE, France) is expected to provide about US$5 million at 15
percent interest rate over 15 years including 5 years of grace. The Fonds
d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC, France) is expected to provide a grant for
the supervision of works estimated at US$1.0 million (foreign exchange
component). All local costs, estimated at US$38 million (42 percent of
total costs), will be financed by ONATRA.  Signing of the CCCE agreement
and effectiveness of agreements with the AfDB and FAC are conditions of
effectiveness of the proposed Credit (Section 7.01(b) and (c) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). As to the CCCE loan, only its signing is
required as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit because the
equipment to be financed by CCCE will only be required near the completion
of civil works. It should be noted that AfDB and CCCE have approved their
respective loans.



- 17 -
Relending Terms
57.       The Republic of Zaire will onlend the proceeds of the proposed
Credit to ONATRA (except for consulting services to the Government)
for a period of 14 years, including a grace period of four years, at an
interest rate of 15 percent per annum, under a Subsidiary Agreement
satisfactory to the Association. ONATRA will bear the commitment fee, and
the foreign exchange risk. Signing of the Agreement would be a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed Credit. (Section 3.01(c) and 7.01(a) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement
58.       Procurement under the proposed project has been divided into
specific lots which have been allocated to the various co-financing
agencies. Civil works to be financed by IDA will be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB), with the exception of tests for
the Ex-Citas quay and the relocation of the N'Gobila beach which are not
likely to interest foreign contractors and will be procured under local
competitive bidding. Replacement of ONATRA's computer and equipment and
material to be financed under the proposed credit would be obtained through
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines,
except for critical spare parts that are available only from original
equipment manufacturers, provided that the total of contracts so awarded
does not exceed US$500,000 equivalent. Consulting services to be financed
by IDA will be procured according to Bank Group guidelines. Civil works
and goods to be financed under the AfDF and CCCE loans will be procured in
accordance with the policies of these institutions.
Disbursements
59.       The proceeds of the Credit will be disbursed as follows:  100 per
cent of the foreign exchange cost of civil works carried out by foreign
contractors; 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost (CIF) of directly
imported materials, equipment spare parts and computer hardware; and 100
percent of the foreign exchange cost of consulting services. Bids will
differentiate between local and foreign exchange costs. All disbursements
will be fully documented.
Financial Evaluation
60.       ONATRA's financial situation has greatly improved since 1977,
when the Government implemented a reorganization of ONATRA's management and
a complete financial recovery program. It achieved a 70 percent working
ratio in each of the last two years and was able to produce positive
income before interest charges in 1981. This is a remarkable achievement



- 18 -
considering the deteriorating national economy during the period under
review. The net operating losses incurred by ONATRA in 1979 and 1980 are a
direct result of a change in ONATRA's depreciation policy. In 1979 ONATRA
revalued its fixed assets based on replacement values; this resulted in an
increase in its depreciation allowances. Although tariff increases were
often granted after long delays, they were generally sufficient to offset
cost increases due to inflation, devaluation and increases in depreciation
allowances. ONATRA is one of the few companies in Zaire allowed to make
provision for depreciation on the basis of revalued assets. This change in
depreciation policy and related tariff increases have put ONATRA in a
strong cash position. A continuing problem has been the long delay by the
Government and its agencies in paying for ONATRA's services. An allocation
for the settlement of past arrears due by the Government to ONATRA is
included in Zaire's 1983 budget; arrears will be settled in twelve monthly
installments. In the future, the Government and its agencies will be
required to settle bills within 90 days of billing (Section 4.02 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
61.       Further improvement is still required in specific areas of
financial management. First, the project will replace ONATRA's main
computer, which is slow and unreliable, and provide technical assistance
for computer operations. Second, ONATRA's procurement procedures need to
be simplified in order to increase controls and to set up procurement
priorities. Third, while ONATRA has succeeded in reinforcing controls over
expenditure, it will need -- given increasing competition and the
relatively high level of transport tariffs -- to progressively shift its
focus towards more aggressive marketing, productivity increases and better
analysis of the cost structure of transport services. ONATRA has retained
consultants to set up a cost accounting system and to review its tariff
structure; and funds are included in the proposed credit for a review of
its commercial procedures. A serious distortion in ONATRA's tariffs arises
from the low-level of transport tariffs for mineral products: it is a
condition of effectiveness that copper tariffs shall be increased to cover
the variable costs of such transport (see para. 31). Finally, ONATRA lacks
procedures for the declassification of overage and unused equipment.
ONATRA will be required to set up a Condemnation Board by June 30, 1984,
with technical assistance under the Project. (Section 3.05 of the draft
Project Agreement.) At present, ONATRA does not pay a fee to the
Government for its use of government-owned port facilities. Pending
agreement on an overall rental fee, the project provides for ONATRA to
reimburse to the Government the funds required for construction and
rehabilitation of assets that remain the property of the Government.
62.       Financial projections show that ONATRA would generate a cash
surplus in each year provided tariffs are adjusted to cover, at least, all
working expenses and depreciation allowances (Section 4.03 of the draft
Project Agreement). Its borrowing needs result mainly from the limitation
imposed by the shortage of foreign exchange in Zaire on ONATRA's ability to
convert its local currency. The main risks affecting the financial
projections relate to devaluation and inflation and to the time lag between



- 19 -
these and Government approval of the necessary tariff adjustments (Section
4.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). These risks, however, are
limited, as (i) devaluation or inflation would require ONATRA to revalue
its depreciation provisions -- in turn requiring a tariff adjustment which
would increase the inflow of funds; and (ii) the Government has already
agreed, under Credit 1180-ZR, that it would act on ONATRA's requests for
tariff adjustments within 90 days of the receipt of such requests, after
which, in the absence of a decision, the proposals would be deemed
approved. This provision has been repeated for the proposed Credit as well
(Section 4.01 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
63.       The financial projections also show that the framework of
financial measures adopted under Credit 1180-ZR (ONATRA Modernization
Project) are satisfactory. These measures are repeated for the proposed
Credit, and include undertakings regarding audits; the provision of foreign
exchange to ONATRA and retention of its foreign exchange earnings; internal
cash generation; debt limitation and procedures for the revision of
tariffs. (Sections 3.01(b), 4.01 and 4.03 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement and 4.02, 4.03 and 4.04 of the draft Project Agreement.)
Benefits and Risks
64.       Implementation of the Project will result in significant
improvement in the operational efficiency of both Matadi and Kinshasa
ports. As a result, the waiting and service time of cargo ships and barges
will be considerably reduced, operating costs will be lowered and some
investment and maintenance costs will be avoided. The considerable cost to
the Zairian economy of diverting import or export traffic, especially
through the southern route, will be avoided. Finally, the financing cost
of the mineral inventory in transshipment on the VN will be much reduced
due to reductions in transit times. The economic rate of return is
estimated to be about 50 percent for Matadi port and 25 percent for
Kinshasa port. The average economic rate of return on these two
components, which account for 95 percent of total project cost, is about 35
percent. These returns are high mainly because rehabilitation of the two
ports is overdue.
65.       The risks associated with this project are not expected to be
greater than those found in similar projects. The two main risks to the
estimated rates of return are (i) that productivity targets would not be
achieved; and (ii) that traffic forecasts would not materialize as
anticipated. Productivity targets, however, are conservative and some have
already been achieved for short periods of time. Their achievement should
not be a problem if ONATRA maintains its good organization and control of
operations, which is expected.  Traffic forecasts would not materialize if
the Zairian economy continues to stagnate and if the expected increase of
exports and imports on the VN does not occur. Given the uncertainty on
these two factors, a sensitivity analysis has been carried out with
restricted traffic assumptions until 1995 - mineral exports on the VN 10
percent lower than in 1981, almost no growth of imports, and very limited
growth of forestry products export. Even with these assumptions, the
project still achieves satisfactory rates of return (30 percent for Matadi
port and 16 percent for Kinshasa port).



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Zaire and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and Office National des Transports and the Recommendation of
the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.
67.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special Conditions of Credit Effectiveness would be: (i) that
the Republic of Zaire shall have made the proceeds of the Credit (except
for funds under Part C of Schedule 2 to the draft Development Credit
Agreement) available to ONATRA under a Subsidiary Agreement satisfactory to
the Association (para. 57); (ii) that the co-financing agreements with the
African Development Bank and the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation shall have
been declared effective (para. 56); (iii) that the agreement with the
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique shall have been signed, (para.
56); and (iv) that a satisfactory tariff increase for the transportation of
mineral products shall have been introduced, (para. 31).
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
Part VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
69.       I recommend the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
February, 25 1983
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 21 -                                                       Page   of 5
TABLE 3A
ZAIRE - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ZAIRE                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGH-ED AVE3ACES
AXEA (THOUSAND so. KM.)                                                         - HDST RECENT ESTIMA*T: '.-
TOTAL         '--.4                                  HOST RECENT          LOW INCOKE              tIL3DLE I:CO!S
ACRICU.LTLRAL    154.8             1960  /b   1970 lb ESTIDAT'Z lb  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAEARA  AURICA SOLr;H OF SAHARA
CNP PER CAPITA (Uss)                 90.0       140.0    220.0                 250.8                1053.2
ENERCY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COU -EQCi=ALENT)     95.5       103.2    100.1                  66.5                 610.1
POPULATIN AiD VITAL STATISTICS
POPLAIION, MID-Y2IAR (THOUSA.NDS) 17756.0    21638.)  28291.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OP TOTAL) 15.7       21.6      34.0                 17.S                   28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATIJN IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     51.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONi)                      156.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS RACHED                2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       7.6         9.2      11.7                 27.7                   54.1
PER SQ. ES. ACRICULTURAL LAND    120.2      143.1    177.7                  66.7                  129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTUE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        44.1        44.3      44.7                 44.8                   46.0
15-64 YRS.                        52.9        52.9      52.5                 52.3                   51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.0         2.8       2.8                  2.9                    2.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAAL                            2.2         2.0       2.7                  2.7                    2.8
URRAN                              ..         5.2       7.2                  6.2                    5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    48.0        47.2      45.9                 47.3                   47.2
CRUDE IEATH RATE (FeR THOUSAND)    24.3        21.5      17.9   -             19.5                   15.7
GROSS REPROOLCTION RATE             3.0         3.0       3.0                  3.2                    3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)         ..         ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PEODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1569-71-100)        101.0       101.0      88.0                 88.7                   90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRLMENTS)                  98.3       101.3    102.4Jc                90.2                   93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         35.9        37.4      35. 77               53.1                   54.8
OF WHICH ANTIAL AND PULSE      13.1        12.7       9. 97-              18.4                   17.0
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RArE    32.7        27.3      21.9                 26.7                   23.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT SIRTH (YEARS)   40.0        42.7      47.1                 45.6                   51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
IHOUSAND)                         150.0       132.0    112.0                129.9                  118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATEk (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        11.0      16.0/d               23.9
URBAN                              .,        33.0      43. d7               54.9
RURAL                              ..         4.0       54o7i               18.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
Or POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         5.0      22.0/e               25.8
URBAN                              ..         5.0      65.07-               63.1
RURAL                              ..         5.0       6.07o               20.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        37621.6    30136.5  15529.3                32097.3               14185.2
POPULATION FER NURSING PERSON    3511.7      2294.6   1619.9                3264.6                2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           230.9       320.0    339.0                1225.0                 1036.4
URLAN                            j7.2        96.8    144.9                 249.5                 430.S
RURAL                           770.5      1066.7   2623.4                1712.1                 3618.6
ADISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERACE SlZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..          ..
UkRAN                              ..         6.1
RURAL                              ..          ..       6.0
AVERAGE NURBER OF PERSONS PER LOOM
TOTAL                              ..          ..
UlRZAN                             ..         *.         ..
ILRUAL                             ..          ..
ACCESS tO ELECTRICTY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINCS)
TOTAL                              ..          .
Uta,                                           ,
.RURAL                              ..         ..



-   22  -                                                         ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TAFLE ?A
ZAIRE-SOZYAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ZAIRE                         REFERENCE GRCUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1;O0 /b ESTIMATE. /b   AFRICA SCtlTH OF SANARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADfJUSIED EtR0LL!P.NT RSTIOS
PRWMARY:     TOTAL                60.0        88.0       90.O0c               63.2                    83.3
MALE                 88.0       110.0      103.o7-               72.7                    96.1
FEIALE               32.0        65.0      77.0T                50.3                    80.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  3.0         9.0       19.0/c               10.2                    15.3
MALE                  4.0        13.0      23.067                13.2                    19.4
TEU.LE                1.0         4.0      144-.O                 6.5                    11.3
VOCATIMOHAL ENROL. ',Z OF SECOND-ARY) 26.5       9.6       13.2/c                7.9                     4.7
PTIPIL-TFACHER RATIO
PRImARY                           39.9        42.6         ..                 47.4                    38.6
SECOtNDARY                        20.3        20.4       27.07c               26.2                    23.4
ADULT LITERACY RA'E |PERCEJT)       31.3/f      13.0       57.9                 34.0                    35.6
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0         3.0       3.6/&                 3.0                    31.9
RADIO BECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         2.9        4.9                 34.8                    71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..         0.3       0.3                   1.7                    17.9
NEWSPAPER (ODA1L'Y GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULAIION                  1.2         9.2        1.6                  2.9                    19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.1         0.1        O./L&                1.1                     0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTASL lABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    8215.5      9464.8   11636.5
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  46.4        44.5       42.6                 34.1                    36.5
AGRICULTURE (?ERCENT)             83.0        79.0       75.0                 78.4                    56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 9.0        11.0       13.0                  9.2                    17.7
PARTICIPATION RATS (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               46.3        43.7       41.1                 41.4                    37.0
MALE                                51.9        49.8       48.0                 53.9                    46.9
FE.AL3                              41.2        38.0       34.5                 29.1                    27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.0         1.1        1.2                  1.2                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST S PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEIIOLDS    ..         ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..           ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..                134.3                   507.0
RURAL                               ..          ..       80.0/-               82.9                   200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          .,       76.0/a               96.4                   523.9
RURAL                               ..           ..       4.07                60.4                   203.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOffE LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..                 39.3
RURAL                               ..           ..      60.0/.               69.0
Not svailable
Not applicable.
NOTES
is   The group averages for each Indicator are populatton-waighted arlthetic meons. Coverage of countrfec
ong the indicators depends on availability of data and Is not uniform.
,   Unless ctherwise noted, data tor 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, betwen 1978 and 1980.
/c  1977; /d 19.6; /c 1975; If 1462; Is 1974.
May. 1982



-23                                                                                         ANNEX I
Page 3of 5
DtET13TYlf0f OF SOCIAL IO5aICASVRS
3etest  tlohaust slut Oc-  nt. deowo fre  snre. g.nt-slyn Jodged the mass  sthoritatioe add r1e.l.ais  it sfmead ale  be t-d tbhn thy -y ne  bs IIne-
nationall   c          bocot    ocoa  ot toe task ofstpadardioed  ofiietosa end non-pte set by diffitren  c-esiea In -oiltiss th. data. Th. da.ta  r,nne
thotat-  -ofcl ee d-ocihe ordoeof eagnitLd., indiate  -rcde.  nd chareteice cetomjor differences b   .. teem   c.toie..
The ries   -etops ur  (t)  hti  can  c--hy gr-u  of  m subject cost.y  -nd (2i a                     .outr .gop tub  -o h-ba  higher averaft i.o-  han  h.m coutry &nop
-thb  .ojc  coutr  (eeepe f.r   "High I.c.-   OLI Exporters" gr...p ober  'Miiddle loin -hle     Africa and fiddle fast" ia ch.e.- ha-e  of  tt-rnge
s.If -oluloficc ).I  tinrfor-c  groop dans the  -averges ar ouinnightod artn                                         efor .-hb indicator and shon  only  h-e
majoityad  hu  ceccuo   :Ic -orup han dsia for than idicae.     Idr  she.oerg f                IIttts  amn  she  "nioendpends no th            lbliyo  Ioll
end It vet noei        -zi_inccb   or todi rlto   a-e-ge  of one sdde-atot  anon he.   Zht  rra-fes  t are oem-usful 1  cIIa,erOof tie oes of
net indi--oo  oco  ci   e0 i-     n nsse- ad rdrrc   ro
AREA (thb.o.ond os)                                                                              noninPer tosrittl Bad -tal   oe,ndsal-Pcpol.titi  (totl,
Tota  - Ecolo- lo earn   --sIalg land ana and inland  -ant; 1979 d.-                            urban, and rurI) divided by iteir tespotlt  nanhe  of honpita1 hodn
Oaitlnnl- t1de-  of  oriuioa        .ne  uaed  no .ootl-o  ptte-nly                      -ata blo   in polite and private g.n..a  and  ptalited hospital nedr-
forc-   n   svro  marlte  aud tnchee 8arden  ar in lie fal L-; 1979 data.                    hbhilit.iatnn     es   co-pi-ele are  -eahlisbhsen   ptenntnly   ti
by an leat no- hyiia.Etabliebhents pFoin  prinipaly- cato-
GNP PER CAPiIT fEll) - lNP con napIc  onti-tase  at-        - ore tmaker prce, 1a-                dial cat. are not lnosdtd.  ora-I epta            h.-he-n,, isolds htalth
colatrd hy  oi-ovtoto   ohod as World Oatk AtIla  (197a8'0 haeit; 1961.                         and indtcl  cetr   n   tennl   taffed by e poysicito  (hue byA
1970,..nd tOEdr.ndinsi axise_e  ners, sidif.. etn.) eob offer in -iptn.aen scn-
dati- and neoside a imi-ed range of endica  ftoilf tims.  Ptr,nse-
ittEOfY Ctit_nit'tliN PE ii 'dETA - Inexa  c--esatia  of   -eiialIeeg   ca                        si_a  -p-ree  orba  bespieisI  LIno .i WHsO. niplgeet  hospitels,
and lignite, rcelc.naa     get and bydro-, notxoad fgat1,rsa   Ie-                              and  -nr1 h-opi-sle, m;:Iniorne    hyitols aod sadionl  nd mate-ity
toiy)i kilonoto- of caeqoi-sl-t pFr -pta; 19ff; 1970, aed 1979                            ce-ee.  SpetilitedhnP-tl          1nesnide.t ny  nde  nosnl
deta,                                                                                        Admxinta. For iopi-aI Sod - Tatsi nser of od-i.sios  to or diaeb-ges
ftrot htapitxlo dinided by h.a toter of bed.,
POPUL,ATONi AYdItOT11L ETPTEiTICS
Tondfalst-       .Odn-s  noaa f-d  at P.Id  t; lPil, 197f. sa4198f                        tHOUSINGe
Irbt Pooobe ocos   fvon(-  il-i re  s  oa  pnpattion;                                         A bhobl   oein   fagop  fidndao  b   hr   Iing qareere
diftf_ocditule   c   cs  atsayitc owaability of data                                         ad Inal main  -1e.  A b-ndnr oridg- may ot say not he inlded It
a_Sog  ooealt;    l  loqn. ssd 190f date.                                                     sh _hnshtkd to   enin-ipoyse
P...olati-rPotcdn                                                                            Aeeaa. oute  of peonspr  ettoa,  enn   n  rural -xoe-Sf  tt
Ionouo   lvcet ZdOT      Catoon P poplaion peojeosisoa ar  baxed no 19807               e  of, -en   oarI,   root  is   llll oras.an  ocoa- osclecrotloa
t-tl  epla bn  Sp eo  adot  nothoir martoln  aid fe-nit ty rat ~                           deelings. rosooinly.  _well ins  one lade on-eeaoeoto re   e
Projoctorprtsaatoaetlt   et-esos  of-cir-  issni  an..-.uoccpied pa-n.
ing lilt  cynou-e-Y at blt inrcigsth -  .1     toontry   Per -apita Itoma                Access to El.-trioity (Pertet- of ermIlis-   - sosa. urban, end  -otl1
le-,xv I fonololfe nu tetacy is llletg  og  7,15 yea.-. Th. poe-                           Cooe-iena  dreligs  tub 1 ectricity to lIninig qsa--oFea .p.rtnag.
tonsfeOr'Iy toto also her. tis, nsl  asastlg deriln  in                          oftoal  -bn-, ae  -oraI dteIiiiogt-px-tu-ly.
tetily  _codlco  -e lecn  le-e  and  ea  fetily pI-laoIg pru nn
bo    onr'  iio  ea-lg-denof ethe  nine n ...toaions of man-aiiy                    UTOCATEEti
inatnnay ooclelno    Eua snninarypapxAant  threIa  sgot   io                       Primar  xobhx  - total, 1 maleed tntal  - Octet tonal, sasad femal
the htl-   to1 iS. 'nqsi on tho dsath rsnn, and aba the  ge srnntoete-                       o.tetli   t of all ages an th   osr  lvla   eretgsntreett
tab        coottot   Thin Is ..hil..od only after festilukY rant  deoline to                  pri_ay anbe1-ags  orla         s;nenily  hsidsolldren  ged 6-it
ibt  nparacet ofI  ein  -te  -eyedtino rtet, abet mesh genertion                              .-tn  hut adjsead ftt difftenat tsgtha of pripary od-taio-; fnt
or tos _ptann I tsof aI   tin-   t5e atsogypplno   nemtneeieihnotsldnno    seiaespoot  i   en
telco   cIto hoslx of tOo p-odctd  eaanro Icof she  xsdeo                             eioce ae_  .Por   oro belee or abe   the  fnfoctl schoo  agn.
in  o  coa  lETS, and she rene of declie of ftstility_ratenrplc-secondar nhel - tonal solo end tr-Il  - Ceepuned asbshon; e-=tdyr
toni levol.                                                           o~~~~~~~~~~~d-irantesreo-oat Ioss. teen year  of appt-d primary Instrsio..
foarooon,ostr oniocin l   -eachd-nti  oa ette  xn-i-onrn  ~pop tico                     prndengoa.  aalca,  r                     -one  triningLI ie-uti... for pupile
sian eilli On -o-eld.                                                                         oeLY of 12 no 17 y at ofs0Ioreede-e  coxse  are .. enerally
- od-ronpenduconp-r uqoor  ndee--  1100 heontre) of                     lcioaeneiee(aRren- ef x--od-rY  - Voooi-                   a  En..  tainn
toa1-     ;lO,lP   d   1hdn.icaatchia,idnta,e  othr pog9ne ihm operte- lodepd-
Per so. haa- rlulatLlad - Caepnned an obo- forogitlori  sd                                   etlyora  de'pesIn ofent            oat  inantatti_s,
noly; l960. 19Th sod 1979ioa daltecersix-primry  and  -etod-r  - Cor  al-ndrnn enrolle  in
Poycislo,,ucet,crcc'   Childre  (0-14 n-earth  norbing-age 115-                                primar  an  aensy  enl  dinide  hr na-bn   of tx...r  in obe
Au n-note), end retioed (65 n-at and          Inr   spenoae   f nid-ynse PIPo-orrptn las,
Isto;  OE  LOPE, cd 1900  dena.                                                            handstliterec:y rate (porcot) - Litertet adnht  (.loll ti red and write)
oosilas-iorE-eth Pa n C.   ret  - tota  - annoa  growh -tae  of tota  sd-                       gpretone of totl odoLt poalti    od is n-te and oIer
yn_r poasio       -o 1sd0-60, ip9e-Il  nod 1970-f0.
Pooolatoo Ines  Ratinoet  -  oax-al growth rae  o f -rbo  pops-                            CffNSU05fTIOtN
aionE   5 00-Al. l9bE-70, and a17-0                                                 Pas.et. e Late fre(Pt tbnosad popolatisi-   Pat      -ercr  c ie   ae
Condo 9intL Rot t(l-hesadi - AatalI Ire bihisba  pthibossed of nud-yna                         er  sostin  le.ta ighn port-ns  etcldee arbu1l...nt. sonrem-n
oP P i_eot  1>60      s  nod I99E data.                                                      hiiayneiis
cr-i leoe- ac  (nrsbcsd) -  ansel dnothe Per thosean    ft tld-pe-                           godin in..tirers (pe  thoosand  cnatto) - All types of   oioefor radio
pnultco    01, tidE, ant 1960 data                                                     brodosots so         Ieta  pbIc per P huado   ouano;tna                 o
Etee  RetodencnRto-oerga oute  of ds-gbnrr  a nesa  .0111 hoar                         Li in.lcensd tsestsE   -a tinend isY rascnrgiotieof india
han t..-irerdclo  porio  if sit eurent  p.esent ege-speifin fo-                              sescmin  fet asfor ronet pear  sop ne t ho cnparable sloe
ecllsyrotoo;uac"ily Ee-yee   oe s  eniog in 1961. '1970, and lORE,                           neIonreeblx                 itn-ieg.
PoeIn Plaooie- A--_crn    -1sa  (thoaod)    asa  oute  of acptantv n-P to er  (Pee ttoead  csain   -                                         -V eoirao for ir-de..tI no
of hlht I-cosoInle   o or  -uplce-o  otit ol dalp pharnIst prnooo.                            gnatolIete thoutoo  Ppoltion; nocloden uo1iosd TV receinete
faty t'lanuin     U-Eer   te-=o  nO nenrid nsn  -                   I'nrnt f earnd             incoonie  edinn-ar  oe  reitato    t Osts camin  ttrr
tos  fciid-b-aict cle (10-04 -rear I ta onbirsh-n...nol  detises..npnnCtnlrc  f(r  stetne..d reuatn                                            ethenrgtr
all marcind  -eo  In onn- g groe-p.                                                          ctto   ofI daiY genera  itensewppr.dtndaa   tiodica
pobi.t.intin  dto-d primarily to t-n-dintanrug           es   Is-II   t antide-d
P0210 AIM0 N1IfTOICC                                                                              to he 'il"  it tt eppn-arta  Ie... Io-  tieas    we.k
ludtnE fee  Pcoucsic  nen apln  (10A-71-0) -icdes of Per capita aeIa           floats dea attendance nor  ant  yet tear- Ia.`a on she sete  of
production of all toAd  -oeditito.  prodatsint s-icdnsed  no..     d feed sod                tnesolduigheya,Luiloding ad .inast n  drie-inciea
is  enclenar y-s  hula..  C.-odit.m  cet poinary gonde ( .g&. mftict                         ad   abil... uits
istsnad of ga-l ohib aco ndiblo and en-trainotoe(IEg. C-ff.e and
-e   r  onelold).  bo teti  poodortie  If e.-b   -totr  is baned onLABOR FORCE
oainolu_    rt   reoe  prin  eeifhin; 191-401, 1970, and 197ff data.                      Totallbr1     oe  (tha..e.ods( - f,e....isally entire pernon, innodi g
n-o satin  np.l of enlete  _oret of rtooieenO- Ceepaned fre                                    armd foetes oId aneplyed ban ennlding hItwns   tds t.  n.
energy aqnio--t ni non f-nd ouppllesaxtilablo  i   -tatry Pet capita                        -castingP..L po aiut  f. al  ages.  Dafiniti..x in n-io..na  Znseic  are
n-o oa.  drotlois n-ppllnt c-ptiam  d-senic prod-erl, fepotne I...                         norenssrhl; 1960. l97O and 1990 dens.
nocI      h.nd .eon  iu tied    Set -upplieseanlde animal deed, neds,                   Female fopre-        - Fesal  Labor fort  as perenge of seto  Labortre
uttituodIn  odpoeno,adlee   noxrbsn.huie                                            Agei-iliure fep--nn  - Labor fern  In foudg, forestry, beh..            n
hoss ern  n cautd 'n- -i hasod 00 phyeiotoieal oneds tot nomaiti                         fiebiog as percentage of tonal lbor fo-n; 1960, 1970 ned 1980 doss
city  nd hsIch  oseietic  esnionsetal  espersoto  hoy sighto   goldnty(enet  - labor ftote LIn s1isg, -cot-totie,-enuiotating
endno  diin-ibtnios nO Ponale   Id aimin   i  pece t (orate at                                 nod  le-iristsy. ooa  and ..at. an....ceenge of 1ota  loh    ore
h  .nood inte; !~195hon, lo7l and In7  iota.                                                1997. 1971 and 1900 iota.
ea_ -PLY en- need r-  day.  Ott  uIpely of food in d.fted on  bove.  nR                    _etioitynoeaon            aa        Ia,mle   n   naelbrfreo
qirvso-   nec all c--cion esrtbllnhed by ESDA pronle  tot sli.in                            yer-erget of ltotl. sam  end fesole  opeteof all agnate-peti-ln-;
oltcicu   el-1-    an  oftuets  Pnntin Per ion- end 20 gnom  of anfal  Ido                   1960, 1970. and 1980da.  These are Ox...d on 1.'s partnipctsiotrae
yas   oei.otcieb        -tm   xhuuld ho atea1 prten   Chase  tnand-rfsio atmaxrcar  fe she papulotlee. -d Ilen  tin  sr-d.A
crx  00l,to    a cl.o of 75 Stro    of tota  p-onl  and 23 gr-s  of                  foetta... ar  nt-o  caciotoe-.e.es.
inio>prino  anccceeag  tot rhoa eeld,  -pron-d by PAD in the Third                   tetsc oedt    ai  -Rarle of In oien order 15 otd 6S andos
-oArooduvp  IOU.-dO, 1970 aug 19PP doss,                                               so sOn  -nt   Ehontom.
Prr Coplia ocosi, reply rntslmal-    I adpoise -Proeinsoly of food dt
nieedlcccnunoo od p             ngatePst day; 1961-AS. 1970 and 1977 data.              INCOME 0ISTOIB8EDIO9
Chil '0005aS  1-4)   - load  int   f te   eadl - hAnil deaths Per th-sand in                 Pnetgof Pnise-  l-n  Ibtni  it cah and kind) - Rtseind by riches
ago  ocu  1-4mar, t  children lo sia age octop,o  not riping cot-                      Spernet. niebet  ZO per-et. p--dress             ...prcet,..ad p--ee  40 perett
trIos  as   octoo-  fIne lIf Li  ho  10.970 anL980 dana.                                     n  households.
'leZEtLnc   cSls   yon( -rOstg. outer of year  of lifa remaoIng                           Tha foloigetsnsaere-apoiae eat   f p-,erylee,
cc bLoh  >0.bdod 100  du.ad ohantd he ;ntertstd winO co-id-bale iatios.
f    p0  c  thousad lico btirs; 1900f, 197  sd70    0_aa1bioeprrylcmaltli   isint   es  helanIe--ff a-1ih iat
A:on  rnsr atrfrret  fnnoalnO-tta,ahe                             Iad meat - Oa--nriti-oly adqante dies PIa ..e....tislI . anfoo  rood ssnis not
anter  epplyfinslden teatedaatfse entrm  oranneened bn onoenstiated      itimatd"OtlsiUetonern decen lani-lEttper spi-e  - aro(Uasd ...
seca  rant na  hth   Ero  pretnse  borhole,. eprins, sd  "'tlrr  nIle) as                    ana  re-tio  pe"ery in"o   7,ne  Is L na-t;hied of a_rs  pEt aIt
Ianntosfs~hcirre-yecsionpesl n . I  an orban arsepoL                                   persona  itts  of sh  soantry      .nra   are  Is deetand trothe rura
-rnnnOrseu-os  lehae- no  nte- rhot 700  --sr  ftroahens may be                       LeIe  tOsajatntEnhge  cs   flnn    inob-e  re
cond-cd anblt h     it Ihhs  reasabl, at..s ef then hone.-     Irrlees                   eiae t     onoiodeondmLane Porrn tbee. nae- prel-ra
rononblo  -cn  e-old iyty  htha  the hes-ewif  or  batbe  oftehIeed                          ad meal - Persn of popolatint  -brim   and  -ors) ohs arm  'abeolIr
do  -e  ha   sot apInd o dispropoenima-  pa-  of teday  is Utennin the                       yeor".
Acenote   orns  le sl lsenanolro iiaio) -tsotl. ashn,and rne-L-
hdtoft.ols(oet,the                   .1l el   -srnd by ennets  dispeml as
she o tltdce coda dipoc.    h It witeas nesot. af be-tenrn
ad anrto-I.s by -tat-ha-  mysst   or the as. of pit pnivis   med .1.-
peplotne  or lyrcto   -PopLesma  diti4ad by  ..aa otf Pemataing. phymi..                                                   tso In d Seetal ass. Dininian
cln tagi tedia  a medieti enbhl at ani-ttsiy level,                                                               Ecanaie enlysta sit Pt-j-tea-  DIpeot-s
potitis  arSnsig  onon- oF alt -ndin 4e by cam   of presumig                                                                          tiy 1982
noealf:ninirs  aaa nnes. amites   aes  ptatsfiai tote  and



ANNEX I
- 24-                                           Page 4  of 5
ZAIRE - ECONOMIC INDICATOR1
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS -J
Amount
(million US$ at      Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)          Annual Growth Rates (x)
current prices)               (at current prices)               (at constant 1970 prices)
1981                            1981                      1979       1980       1981
Gross Domestic Product 2          5,384.1                          100.0                       0.3        2.4       2.4
(CDP Conmercialized)             (4,222.5)                          (78.4)                    (0.2)      (2.4)      2.4
Agriculture                     1,722.2                            32.0                      3.1        2.8        2.7
Industry (incl. mining)         1,269.5                           23.6                      -6.1        4.4       4.8
Services                        2,183.7                           40.6                       4.6        0.1       0.4
Consumption                       4,717.3                            87.6                     -3.6        7.2       6.8
Gross Investment                  1,361.2                            25.3                     56.8      172.4     -49.8
Exports of GNFS                     966.7                            18.0                    -21.0       23.8     -44.6
Imports of GNFS                   1.661.1                            30.9                      7.7      222.0     -62.8
Gross national savings              347.1                             6.4                      6.0      41.3       57.3
PUBLIC FINANCEI/ :Central Government)                   (million B)                         X of GDP
A c t u a 1                    (at market prlces)
1979         1980          1981           1979        1981
Current revenues                            1,944.4      3,777.4       4,781.5           17.5        20.3
Current expenditures                        2,391.7      3,850.4       5,964.0           21.5        25.3
Current deficit                               447.3          73.0      1,182.5            4.0         5.0
Capital expenditures                          129.3         246.4        539.7            1.2         2,3
Overall deficit                               576.6         319.4      1,722.2            5.2         7.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                                   1979             1980                1981
(million   outstanding end period):
Money and Quasi Money                                     2,084.9          3,367.3             4,644.9
Bank Credit to Public Sector                             2,062.2          2,329.4              3,783.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector                               878.7         1,014.3              1,342.4
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Honey and Quasi Mcney (as x of GDP .- market prices)         18.8             19.6                19,7
Consumer Price Index (1975 = 100)4/                         912.7         1,313.3             1,813.1
Annual percentage changes in
Consumer Price Incex                                     101.3             43.9                38.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector                                30.7             13.0                62.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector                               37.1             15.4                32.3
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average
exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
Ij/    1981 figures are preliminary.
2/    At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will
not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
3/    Cash operations only; excludes foreign grants and expenditures
financed by foreign sources.
31     Consumer prlce index for the city of Kinshasa.
December 17, 1982



-  25 -                                      ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
ZAIRE - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                              1979         1980         1981
(willion US$ at current prices)
Exports of goods and services                 1,9r4.6      2,088.4      1,589.5
of which:  Merchandise F.O.B.              (1,834.0)   (1,954.9)   (1,494.0)
Imports of goods and services                 1,967.3     2,219.9      2,196.7
of which:  Merchandise F.O.B.              (1,106.9)   (1,201.3)   (1,096.6)
Private transfers (net)                         -96.6        -74.9        -82.5
Current Account Balance                        -149.3       -206.4       -689.7
Official granCs (net)                           164.1        208.2        188.7
Public Capital (net)                            -49.6        -23.8       -159.2
Private Capital (net) and errors and
omissions                                    -220.4       -280.1        -66.0
SDR Allocation                                   20.4         20.8         18.9
Other Financing                                 282.8        265.5        490.5
Change in net international reserves            -48.0        -31.8        216.8
(- - increases)
EXCHANGE RATES:
January 2, 1979-August 27, 1979                      1.00 - SDR 0.5
August 27, 1979-February 22, 1980                   I 1.00 - SDR 0.375
February 22, 1980-June 19, 1981                     i 1.00 - SDR 0.263
Since June 19, 1981                                ;5 1.00 - SDR 0.158
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES:
1978                                                US$ 1.00 - ; 0.836
1979                                                US$ 1.00 - i 1.729
1980                                                US$ 1.00 - E 2.800
1981                                                US$ 1.00 - B 4.384
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (1981)                          Million US$            X
Minerals and Petroleum                              1,270.7              85.1
Others                                                222.9              14.9
Total                                             1,493.6             100.0
EXTERNAL DEBT, Dec. 31, 1981 -/                     (million US$)
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                       4,254.0
Non-Guaranteed                                        350.0
Total outstanding & Disbursed                       4,604.0
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981 -                           x
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                           14.2
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                             3.3
IBRD/IDA LENDING                                         Million  US$
(As of September 30, 1982)                          IBRD                 IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed                             76.94              200.31
Undisbursed                                          0                 237.67
Outstanding, incl. Umdisbursed                      76.94              437.98
1/  Includes pavments arrears, debt rescheduling, emergency assistance, and
profit on gold sales.
2/  Preliminary estimates.
3/  Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.
Represents actU.i payments.
December 17, 1982



e 26 -                              ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of September 30, 1982)
Loan or
Credit      Fiscal                                     Amount in US$ million
Number      Year       Borrower                   Bank         IDA 1/   Undisbursed
Prior
to June   Congo &    Transport       91.58 2/
1960      Otraco      Infrastructure
One Loan Fully Disbursed                         100.00
Ten Credits Fully Disbursed                                    119.50          0.14
571       1975       ZAIRE       Rail-River II                26.00          1.51
624       1976       ZAIRE       Education II                 21.00         19.24
660       1977       ZAIRE       Cotton Reha-
bilitation                 8.00           3.57
697       1978       ZAIRE       Ituri Livestock
Development                8.00           1.61
710       1978       ZAIRE      Fourth DFC                  10.00           0.27
796       1978       ZAIRE       Oil Palm                    9.00           8.09
902       1979       ZAIRE       Railways                   20.00           13.28
916-      1979       ZAIRE       Highway IV                  26.00          10.34
998       1980       ZAIRE       Fifth Dev. Finance          18.50          12.37
1040       1981       ZAIRE       Smallholder Maize           11.00           9.85
1089 5/    1981       ZAIRE      Kwilu Ngongo Sugar          21.66          17.50
1152 5/    1981       ZAIRE      Kwango-Kwilu                 2.57            2.55
ZAIRE      Technical Assistance
1180 5/    1982       ZAIRE       ONATRA Modernization        24.23          24.23
1224 4/ 5/ 1982       ZAIRE       Shaba Power System          17.59          17.59
Rehabilitation
1241    5/ 1982       ZAIRE      Water Supply II              17.47         17.47
1244    5/ 1982       ZAIRE       Agriculture T.A.             4.92           4.92
1264 4/ 5/ 1982       ZAIRE       Second Cotton              10.70          10.70
1273 4/ 5/ 1982       ZAIRE       Sixth DFC                  21.19          21.19
1290 4/ 5/ 1983       ZAIRE       Highways V                 41.39          41.39
Total (less cancellations):                      191.58       438.72         237.31
- of which has been repaid                     114.64         0.74               6/
Total now outstanding:                          76.94      437.98          237.67
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/ Guaranteed by the Kingdom of Belgium.
3/ Credit 255-CK, originally US$7.0 million, has closed with undisbursed balance
of US$80,000 which will be cancelled; Credit 398-ZR has several withdrawal
applications pending which, when paid, will leave a balance of about
US$60,000 to be cancelled.
4/ This credit was signed but is not yet effective.
5/ Computed at the September 30, 1982 rate.
6/ Computed at market rate on dates of disbursement.



ANNEX II
- 27 -                                Page 2 of 8
Amount sold:                     54.47
- of which has been repaid       54.47
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                76.94      437.98
Total Undisbursed:                                0.0                  237.67
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT 1/ (As of September 30, 1982)
Fiscal                             Type of        Amount in US$ Millions
Year        Obligor               Business       Loan  Equity   Total
1970         Societe Financiere de
Developpement(SOFIDE)   DFC             -     0.76    0.76
1979        Zaire Gulf Oil Company  Oil Company  2.50   -           2.50
1979        Zaire Petroleum Company Oil Company  1.61   -           1.61
1983        Nord-Sud Industrie-ROHSTOFF GMBH        0.23   -        0.23
for studies of an aluminum project
Total gross commitments                 4.34  0.76    5.10
less cancellations,
terminations, repayments
and sales                               2.88   -       2.88
Held by IFC                             1.46  0.76    2.22
C.    PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/ (As of September 30, 1982)
Credit 571-ZR          Railway and River Transport Project; US$26 Million
Credit of July 11, 1975; Effective Date: November 18,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project included: (a) technical assistance to ONATRA including a
comprehensive training program; (b) financing of a major part of ONATRA's
1975-77 investment requirements for river transport equipment, railway
improvements and track renewal; (c) additional river markings on the
Kinshasa-Ilebo waterway; (d) port studies; and (e) a preliminary engineering
study for the Ilebo-Kinshasa rail link. Project implementation was initially
slow due to a combination of management shortcomings and financial constraints
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do
not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weakness in
project execution.



ANNEX II
- 28 -                                Page 3 of 8
which improved during execution.   All procurement is now completed or underway;
and credit funds are fully committed. ONATRA's financial performance has
improved significantly as a result of tight controls. Operations have improved
in the ports, in river transport, in the shipyards and in the railway. While
overall project execution is proceeding satisfactorily, extension of the Closing
Date is being considered to allow for some additional procurement of spare
parts.
Credit 624-ZR          Second Education Project; US$21 million Credit
of December 28, 1976; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project consisted of construction and equipment for five new
rural primary teacher training schools, the rehabilitation and re-equipment of
six agricultural technician training schools and one higher agricultural
institute, technical assistance and fellowships for these institutions, and
evaluation of the new programs promoted in the project and the carrying out of
preinvestment studies in preparation for further education projects. Because of
implementation delays and exceedingly high inflation, the total cost of the
project substantially exceeded available funds. Fellowships training of teachers
and several preinvestment studies have been successfully carried out.
Consideration was given to revising the project to eliminat civil works and in
their place supply equipment to agriculture technical schools. After a review
of this possibility, it was determined that the Government would be unable to
satisfactorily implement a revised project. The project was therefore closed on
September 30, 1982 and undisbursed credit funds of about US$19.0 million were
cancelled.
Credit 660-ZR          Cotton Rehabilitation Project - US$8 million Credit of
December 28, 1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982, Cofinanced by Belgium
Project implementation has been slow from the beginning due to
various administrative obstacles and the dissolution of ONAFITEX, the National
Cotton and Project Implementing Agency, in May 1978. Coton-Zaire, a public
enterprise, was created in December 1979 to replace the former ONAFITEX regional
Office. An Amendment Agreement reflecting these changes was signed on October
10, 1980; Government counterpart funds for investments were transferred to
Coton-Zaire and the technical assistance team was integrated in the company with
clear responsibilities. The cotton campaigns since 1979 have been carried out
on a regular schedule and production, although still very low, is increasing.
Producer prices have been increased since 1981 in nominal terms. Efforts now
focus on converting Coton-Zaire from a public to a mixed-capital company, like
those that handle cotton promotion elsewhere in Zaire and which are to be
supported by IDA's Second Cotton Project (Cr. 1264-ZR). Continuity of effort
and support for area cotton farmers are at stake in view of the credit's
end-1982 closing date. Government is now negotiating with possible private
sector partners. The Government has requested a postponement in the closing
date and the matter is under review. I/
1/ It has since been postponed to December 31, 1983



ANNEX II
- 29 -                                Page 4 of 8
Credit 697-ZR          Ituri Livestock Development; US$8 Million Credit of
August 2, 1977: Effective Date: December 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982; Cofinanced by the
French Ministry of Cooperation, the Federal Republic
of Germany and Canadian International Development Agency
The project aims at improving livestock production in the Ituri
subregion through the provision of improved animal health and production
services, the training of staff and pastoralists, development of three ranches
to finish range cattle and rehabilitation of marketing and slaughter facilities
including two abattoirs. Despite slow project start-up and continuing
constraints related to high rates of inflation, low prices for beef, late
receipt of government counterpart funds impressive results have been achieved.
They include: (i) the establishment and operation of a veterinary and livestock
extension service; (ii) the implementation of a training program for extension
officers and livestock producers; (iii) the establishment of a livestock
producer cooperative which arranges the supply of veterinary products; (iv)
vaccination and drenching of about 200,000 cattle annually (two thirds of the
project's objective); (v) initiation of pasture development; and (vi)
establishment of regular livestock markets. Future emphasis in the subsector
should be placed on expansion of marketing. The Closing Date has now been
postponed to June 30, 1983.
Credit 710-ZR         Fourth DFC; US$10 Million Credit of August 2, 1977;
Effective Date: December 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
SOFIDE was established in January 1970 and the Bank Group provided a
substantial share of its initial resources through an IFC equity investment of
US$750,000 and a First IDA Credit of US$5 million. Three other credits of US$10
million each were granted in 1971, 1973 and 1977. SOFIDE started operating on
July 1st, 1970, with a General Manager seconded by the Bank. In May 1973, a
Zairian General Manager, assisted by an expatriate Senior Advisor, replaced the
Bank-seconded General Manager. The institution has developed into a well run
and capable development bank, despite the policies of zairianization
retrocession which have disrupted the industrial and financial sectors. SOFIDE
has recently diversified its activities by increasing its operations in key
economic sectors, especially agriculture and transportation. SOFIDE has also
decentralized its operation and has recently opened three regional offices. In
1976, the Bank's Operation Evaluation Department conducted a project performance
audit of the First Credit to SOFIDE and found that SOFIDE had been generally
successful in fulfilling its objectives and had developed into a competent
organization. The original closing date (December 31, 1981) was extended by one
year to permit disbursement of the remaining credit funds which were fully
committed to subprojects. The credit closed at end 1982 as scheduled.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Credit 796-ZR           Oil Palm Project - US$9 Million Credit of June 8, 1978:
Effective Date: January 30, 1981; Closing Date: December
31, 1985; Cofinanced by African Development Fund (ADF)
Banque Arabe pour le Developpement Economique en Afrique
(BADEA) and Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(CCCE)
The project consists of a five-year program to support the
rehabilitation of existing oil palm plantations through investments for
replanting and new plantings, renewal of oil mills and transport equipment,
improvement and expansion of social infrastructure; the employment of additional
staff, and training of staff. Effectiveness was delayed by the difficulties
which arose between the companies and the Government over the role of the
companies in the Project; by administrative bottlenecks, particularly in the
Ministry of Agriculture; and by the complex cofinancing arrangements. One of the
three companies which was to participate in the project has withdrawn and the
investment and financing plans were revised. Of the remaining companies, one
has begun a planting program out of its own resources but has delayed a major
decision on rehabilitation of its oil mills until 1982. The second company has
placed equipment orders for vehicles and oil mill parts to start its planting
and oil mill rehabilitation program. Cancellation of BADEA's $4.4 million credit
on August 10, 1982 will force a revision of cost estimates and the financing
plan.  It may be possible to accomodate these without major disruptions as a
result of savings in oil-mill rehabilitation.
Credit 902-ZR           Railway Project: US$20.0 million Credit of June 14, 1979;
Effective Date: January 27, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983; Cofinanced by the Saudi Fund for
Development; Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau; the
OPEC Special Fund; and the African Development Bank
The Project supports the 1979-1982 investment program of the Societe
Nationale des Chemins de fer Zairois (SNCZ) and includes track rehabilitation,
equipment and operational investments to increase SNCZ's effective capacity.
The project finances: (a) renewing and upgrading 210 km of track and ballasting
another 285 km; (b) 100 ore wagons, 9 shunting locomotives and 12 passenger
coaches; (c) spare parts for locomotives and wagons; (e) extension of Ilebo port
facilities; (f) social infrastructure; and (g) middle/senior technical and
management staff training and consultant services. Effectiveness of this credit
was delayed in particular by slow progress in completing cofinancing
arrangements. Disbursements have also been slow owing to the weakness of
purchase and storage controls which prevented placing purchase orders in a
timely manner. The Project scope is likely to require revision as a result of
the recent decision of the Saudi/OPEC Fund to suspend disbursements.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
Credit 916-ZR          Fourth Highway Project: US$26 million Credit of
June 14, 1979; Effective Date: July 16, 1980;
Original Closing Date: December 31, 1982, postponed to
December 31, 1983; Cofinanced by the EEC Special Action
Fund and the Saudi Fund for Development.
The project was designed to help finance the 1979-81 road
maintenance and rehabilitation program of the Office des Routes (OR). It
comprises the maintenance and rehabilitation of about 40,000 km of roads,
including 800 km of paved road; strengthening and replacement of bridges;
construction of workshops and warehouses; procurement of motor and cable ferries
and replacement motors, and of highway maintenance equipment, spare parts and
fuel; improvement of the National Public Works Laboratory, and technical
assistance and training. Implementation of the project had to be postponed
owing to a one year delay in credit effectiveness. Procurement of equipment and
spare parts is now substantially completed, and the maintenance/
rehabilitation program which has been extended to include 1982, has become fully
operational. However fuel shortages have in the past months endangered
seriously the execution of the program and, maintenance objectives for 1982 will
not be achieved. Solutions are being studied to overcome the problems created
by the Saudi Fund's decision to suspend disbursements on its remaining balance.
Credit 998-ZR:         Fifth DFC; US$18.5 Million Credit of June 16, 1980
Effective Date: January 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
As of September 30,1982 US$15.5 million of this Credit had been
committed under the investment component and US$1.6 million for the working
capital component . Disbursement of credit funds is expected to accelerate
rapidly in the latter half of 1982 following the normal IDA and SOFIDE approval
of sub-projects and the placement of orders. Comments on SOFIDE are reflected
under Credit 710-ZR.
Credit 1040-ZR         Smallholder Maize Project: US$11 million Credit of
October 9, 1980; Effective Date: May 11, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987; Cofinanced by the International
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and African
Development Bank (ADB)
The project aims to improve existing farming systems in an area
covering about 26,000 km2 around Mbuji Mayi, increase maize production from
about 80,000 tons to about 120,000 tons per annum and increase the incomes of
about 53,000 farmers. The Project includes (a) provision of inputs including
fertilizer and improved maize seeds, transport, distribution and sales services
and storage facilities for inputs; (b) development of the private marketing
sector; (c) development of improved extension, training and research facilities;
(d) development of road and drinking water infrastructure; and (e) technical
assistance in support of the above activities. Project implementation is
proceeding well after initial financial and personnel recruitment problems.
Maize output increased by about 30,000 tons in the first agricultural year - far
in excess of projections; fertilizer and seed demand are very strong and credit
repayments are good. The principal problem is weak Government budgetary
support, notably failure to provide PMKO, the implementing agency, with
fertilizer as agreed.  PMKO also has personnel and procurement problems.



ANNEX II
- 32 -                               age7f 8
Credit 1089-ZR         Kwilu-Ngongo Sugar Project: US$26.4 million Credit of
January 7, 1981; Effective Date May 28, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986; Cofinanced by the French
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE)
The Project aims at increasing sugar production through the
rehabilitation and expansion of factory, field and transportation capacity and
also at promoting foodcrop production. Project implementation is progressing
satisfactorily; procurement and disbursement are well advanced. It is expected
that factory rehabilitation and expansion will be completed one year ahead of
schedule and field rehabilitation according to schedule; construction of housing
and offices is nearly completed. Foreign exchange allocations have been below
agreed levels and the Project entity has had to purchase foreign exchange on the
parallel market. Supervision missions have discussed the matter with Government
but have met with no success. However, Project implementation will not be
delayed by this problem.
Credit 1152-ZR         Kwango-Kwilu Technical Assistance Project: US$2.9 million
Credit of July 23, 1981; Effective Date: July 7, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The Credit was declared effective on July 7, 1982. CODAIK, the
mixed capital development company has been established, technical assistance has
been recruited and the Government is reviewing the 1983 work program.
Credit 1180-ZR         ONATRA Modernization Project: US$26.0 million
Credit of March 10, 1982; Effectiveness Date:
October 5, 1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1986
This Credit was declared effective on October 5, 1982.
Credit 1264-ZR:        Second Cotton Rehabilitation Project: US$11.3 Million
Credit of August 6, 1982; Terminal Date for
Effectiveness: November 6, 1982; Closing Date: June 30,
1986.
This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit 1224-ZR:        Shaba Power System Rehabilitation Project:US$19 Million of
June 9, 1982; Terminal Date for Effectiveness: December
15, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
This Credit is not yet effective.



33 -                                ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Credit 1241-ZR      Second Water Supply Project: US$18 Million Credit of May 5,
1982; Terminal Date for Effectiveness: November 30, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit 1244-ZR:    Agriculture Technical Assistance Project: US$5 Million Credit
of May 20, 1982; Terminal Date for Effectiveness: November 30, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit 1273-ZR:    Sixth DFC Project: US$ 21.5 Million Credit of August 6,
1982; Terminal Date for Effectiveness: December 6, 1982; Closing Date:
December 3, 1986.
This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit 1290-ZR:    Fifth Highway Project:  US$43.5 Million Credit of October 29, 1982;
Terminal Date for Effectiveness: January 28, 1983; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
ZAIRE
PORTS REHABILITATION PROJECT
Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a) Identification         :  1980, on the basis on update
feasibility studies carried
out in the mid-1970s.
(b) Project Preparation  :  1980-1982
(c) Appraisal Mission    : March 1982
(d) Negotiations           :  February 7 and 8, 1983
(e) Planned Date for
Credit Effectiveness: June 1983
Section II: Special Project Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Government to consult IDA on projects in the ports and
railways sectors requiring annual investments of US$10 million
or more (para. 29);
(b) Substantive changes in ONATRA's staffing plan will not be made
without prior consultation with IDA (para. 35);
(c) ONATRA will, by June 30, 1984, set up a Condemnation Board to
identify and retire old and excess assets (para. 61);
(d) Adoption of operational targets to monitor improvements in
productivity and equipment availability (para. 54);
(e) ONATRA will continue to be responsible for the port areas
included in the project, and no change in ONATRA's statutes or
its ''cahier des charges' ' would be made without prior
consultation with the Association (para. 36);



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(f)   The present facilities of N'Gobila Beach are to be vacated
before December 31, 1984 (para. 53).
(g)   Financial covenants regarding the provision of foreign
exchange to ONATRA and retention of its foreign exchange
earnings; settlement of Government agency bills within 90 days;
procedures for the approval of tariff revisions and for
depreciation of assets (paras. 62 and 63).
Special Conditions of Credit Effectiveness are:
(a) signing of a Subsidiary Agreement between Zaire and ONATRA
satisfactory to IDA (para. 57);
(b) effectiveness of agreements with AfDB and FAC (para. 56).
(c) signing of an agreement with the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique (para. 56), and
(d) introduction of a satisfactory tariff increase for the
transportation of mineral products (para. 31).



- 36 -
Annex IV
Page 1 of 2
ZAIRE
BANK GROUP EXPERIENCE
IN THE HIGHWAYS SUB-SECTOR
1.        Since Zaire's independence in 1960, IDA Has helped finance five
highway projects. The First Credit 152-CK, US$6.0 million of 1969) was
designed to improve highway administration and management and to carry out
emergency maintenance and rehabilitation. The project was completed in
1976, four years after the original closing date. According to the Project
Performance Audit Report, only some of the expected results were achieved
because of the Government's lack of familiarity with Bank Group procedures
and because of the disorder then prevailing in Zaire. For lack of reliable
information, a reevaluated economic return (ER) was not calculated;
nevertheless, the project was instrumental in establishing OR as an
autonomous organization -- a significant achievement. The Project was
co-financed by UNDP.
2.        The Second Project (Credit 292-CK, US$19 million of 1972) was to
help strengthen OR, train local staff and rehabilitate some 1,900 km of
roads. It was co-financed by UNDP, the US, France and Canada. The Project
Completion Report concluded that 1,000 km of roads were rehabilitated to
the planned standards, 600 km to lower standards, and 300 km were deleted,
largely due to a shortage of Government funds and the nationalization of
contractors. Performance of consultants under the project had, in general,
been weak. OR began to function as a viable organization, and despite cost
overruns, the reevaluated ER for the Project was satisfactory at 15
percent. The project was completed five years behind schedule. A
Performance Audit Report for the Second and Third Projects will be prepared
in due course.
3.        The aims of the Third Project (Credit 536-ZR, US$26 million
of 1975) were to implement two regional pilot maintenance schemes, to
rehabilitate 600 km of roads and to continue the institution building of
OR, particularly, by developing local expertise. The project, which was
completed two years after the original closing date, was co-financed by
Belgium, France and the UNDP. The Project Completion Report found that the
pilot regional schemes had been successfully carried out, and have served
as models for the present decentralized system. Because of Zaire's
financial crisis, however,the rehabilitation and feasibility study
components were reduced. The technical assistance, equipment and ferry
components were completed satisfactorily. However, for lack of reliable
data, a reevaluation of the ER was not possible. The Completion Report
concluded that OR's maintenance capacity had certainly improved, and that
improved ferry operations, not envisaged at appraisal, had greatly
contributed to the benefits of the project.



- 37 7
Annex IV
Page 2 of 2
4.        The Fourth Project (Credit 916-ZR, US$26 million of 1979) is
proceeding satisfactorily, although with a year's delay in credit
effectiveness, because of delays in meeting the cross-effectiveness
provisions under co-financing arrangements. Following the withdrawal of
substantial bilateral assistance, it is expected to be completed with a
year's delay, by December 1983. The project, which is co-financed by EEC
and eight co-financiers, essentially continues previous efforts to improve
OR's administration and its maintenance and rehabilitation efforts. The
major achievements of these four projects is that the deterioration of the
main road network has been arrested; a viable road administration has been
established and an increasingly competent staff is being trained. The
Fifth Project (Credit 1290-ZR, US$43.5 million of 1982) is in early stages
of implementation.



I



IBRD16564
i       CFNTI` L,P IC(A    PIPJBJC                                                                            5_At.  A'
ERA                                                          Ay' -yN,5)                                                       '--- '''\                        N       '
AR  REA  RAE  PUK BA CL I C' OY   -     , ,a                           h    0XX'                                                  d 
ST A 1-                                                        "A -                    *,                                    A
?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'NAR r7A' ;                 N _8_   T   J HAUT ZAIRE
t                                                             \        \ t                       TRANSPORTATION   NETWORK                                   tx   urlu                         !   t >                    0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~//  /  tAARA 
/ REPUBLIC  O/F  CQ50RN/AJU                                                              $R        AARRCA
; ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ NA  A': N:                                                    I                                     \        N"/A '^u/\AC//A2:
N                                A.'   r e                                                                  A M1BA S
,  ~~j./$P/OAN  >~~~~~'                            II         ~      ~      ~      RWNEI ~~ANZAI
*\                    ,y~~~~~~~~~~~                                         N                                                                                AR~PN    )   
TRANSPORTATION NETWORK~~~~~~                                        IA RARA/PI P
/'  KAAR>                   Ar4AAA-iAR                                                 \\     /                           I~~~~~~~~~Z MB 
*  .RCR   -  ~        ~       ~        R-d K.-(AANUNF                RER
/5/tA R S     ~                                           2       1                    I R E A                            41-R.    I-7 /
J-~~~~.AR-                    P~~R-    L P-AAA~    AAAJ    TNZPI



I                                                                                                          I



;grSC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ >  Ct 0
I   '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ' ' 0 't  g 0'S  W;m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ p1



A
I



IBRD  16567
10     ~ 7              20         >           30-                                                                                         Z  IAt   RE                                                                                                 AUGUST 1982
,r /         .         CENTRAL          >    S U                                                                                                             A N
,CAMEROON t   RICAN REPUBL c                                                                                                  KIN SHASA                           PORT
EQ~~~~~~~~~   -    >                                                                                   LI ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Existing  Port Structures
GUINEA                                              GAN                                                                                        Main  Roads
PEGP-E-S                                                            .                                                            Roilwoys
GABON  -.                                                                                                                                 - Port Limits
"        OE (           A               *ARUND                                                                                ---   (nterntionol Boundaries
TANZANIA
ANGOLA           ._ .I( C ete                                                                                  jGa phn Berohs for Togs etc.-_ p_            Ne  Berths for
rc~--~        e A M B          a A     e= t    r,,   ,  Containers and Loss      |5" --                  Ouay ,- - "ElC
22         ZAGRA~~~A                                                                                                                                 m                                      
CONTA NER S TACKINC  I                                                           FERRY
LCC STACKING, 
RSver Tr-nsport       - '   -   .---    k%.   /    / <                                                             r /                   a - -9
-----    __---                      EJ0
DDMN15             NE   M, |_
METR                                                                                                                                 _  - M  S
ao0!                                                                                                                                                       1 i   ;9   =   S  ~  l  100  200  31C  400
Pos~~~~~~~~~~~~eoge~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Terporo  ~~ffhto    n  /deen   n  h    otlsttSofa /e   ooj/an    ndr  mpto
1-0- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ 
MOleac A/ S Ch              200
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~icele .errpeS _o  _ol0rettecrvI                                                                                  __, _I _onoe



