Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10413
Report No. 10413-NIR Type: (PCR)
TWEDDLE, E/ X31707 / T9073/ OEDD3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGER
FIRST WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1309-NIR)
FEBRUARY 28, 1992
Infrastructure Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   = CFAF  1/
US$1.00         = CFAF 260  2/
CFAF 1,000      = US$ 3.84
SDR 1           = US$ 1.0656  2/
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Niger = January 1- December 31
NIGELEC              = January 1- December 31
OFEDES               - October 1- September 30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Cu.m         Cubic Meter ( 1 cu.m = 264 Imp Gallons)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCCE     Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
IDA      International Development Association
ILO      International Labor Organization
KFW      Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MH       Ministry of Hydraulics
NIGELEC  Societe Nigerienne d'Electricite
OFEDES   Office des Eaux du Sous-Sol
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
SNE      Societe Nationale des Eaux
UNCDF    United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNDP     United Nations Development Program
UNDTCD   United  Nations  Department  of  Technical  Cooperation  in
Development
WHO      World Health Organization
1/    The CFA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio of
FF 1 to CFAF 50.
2/    As of 9/15/90



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C 20433
US.A.
Office of Directot-Ceneral
Opetais Evaluation
February 28, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJErT:     Project Completion Report on Niger
First Water Supply Proiect (Credit 1309-NIR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Niger - First Water Supply Project (Credit 1309-NIR)"
prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit of this project has been made
by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance 
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without WorL1 Bank authorization.|



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGER
FIRST WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credit 1309-NIR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface . .  .      ...  ...........  ...........  ...........  .............  ....... .   i
Evaluation Summary   . . . .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .. .  .  . . . . .     ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERPESPECTIVE   . . . . . . . .                         1
A. Project Identity . . . . . . . . . .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  1
B. Introduction . . . . . . . . . . ......   . .          ...........                      1
C. Project Objectives and Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                          2
D. Project Design and Organization   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         4
E. Project Implementation . . . . . . . .......... .                .  .  .  .  .  .    .  4
F. Project Results   . .  . .  . . . . . . . . ....                      .  .   . . . .    6
G. Institutional Improvements .               lmprov..me..   .      .    n.s......         6
H. Project Sustainability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  .                          7
I. IDA Performance   . . . . . . . . . . & .. .             .     ....      ......         7
J. Borrower Performance.  . .......                                  * **.......           8
K. Project Relationship . . . .                         ... ... .  ....... .               9
L. Consulting Services          ... . . . .   .                '. ......                   9
M. Project Documentation and Data . . . .              .     ........   .        .    .    9
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         10
A. Related Bank Loans/IDA Credits  . . . . . . . . . ...              . . . .   .         10
B. Project Timetable   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                .  .  .  .  .  .   .  10
C. Credit Disbursement            .        . . . . . . .    .  . .    . . . . . .         11
D. Project Implementation . . . . .             .  .   . . . .   . . . . . . . .          12
E. Project Costs and Financing   .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .                 13
F. Project Results   . . . . . . . ......... . . . . .  .          .  .         .         14
G. Status of Project Covenants   . . . .    . . . . . .                                   15
H. Mission Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . # . .                                       17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



NIGER
FIRST WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credit 1309-NIR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the First Water Supply
Project in Niger for which Credit 1309-NIR in the amount of SDR 6.1 million
(US$6.5 million) was approved on December 14, 1982.  The Credit closed on
June 30, 1988 (the original closing date was June 30, 1986). The undisbursed
balance of SDR 234,839 has been cancelled.
This was tbe first operation by the Bank Group in Niger's Water Supply
Sector. The United Nations Development Program provided cofinancing in the
amount of US$1.05 million.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary and Parts I and III of the PCR were
prepared by the Infrastructure Division, Sahel Department, Africa Region. A
request to the Borrower to prepare Part II of the report was sent on
April 11, 1989. No reply has been received from the Borrower.
This PCR has been based, inter alia, on the Memorandum of the President
to the Board on the Project; the Development Credit and Project Agreements;
supervision reports; correspondence between IDA and the Borrower and internal
IDA memoranda.



- ii -
NIGER
FIRST WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credit 1309-NIR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A. Proiect Objectives
1.    The objectives of IDA's first support to Niger's water supply and
sanitation sector were to: (a) assist the Government to undertake studies
leading to the strengthening of the institutional framework of the sector;
(b) reinforce the management and operations of sector institutions through
technical assistance; (c) improve sector planning and enhance its financial
autonomy; and (d) support the Government's efforts to undertake the most
urgent rehabilitation of the existing water supply facilities.
B. Implementation Experience
2.    The project got off to a slow start due to the unfamiliarity of
Government officials with IDA procedtures, personnel changes within the
Government and administrative bottlenecks within the Government machinery in
contract processing.  These led to a two-year delay in project completion
(paras 9 and 11).
3.    The project implemented was substantially as appraised except that more
distribution extensions for Niamey were financed by the Credit because of
funds freed when bilateral funding became available for the rehabilitation of
water production facilities.   Inspite of the two-year delay in project
completion, project cost expressed in US dollars did not vary much from the
appraisal estimate due to the devaluation of the CFAF against the US$ in the
course of project execution (para 10).
4.    IDA  facilitated dialog between the Government,  the  implementing
agencies,  consultants and UNDP which cofinanced the project.   Project
supervision was regular except for for a 15 month hiatus coinciding with the
period of the reorganization. Project implementation was substantially aided
by the inputs of consultants in training, design supervision of works and
studies (paras 15, 24 and 25).



i.ii -
C. Prolect P.esults
5.    The results of the project were mixed.  Notwithstanding the completion
delay, the project made a substantial contribution to the inFtitutional
development of the water supply sector: the project led to the consolidation
of the responsibility of all urban water supply under a single entity--the
newly created Societe Nationale des Eaux (SNE); it led to an upgrading of the
skills of sector staff and it also contributed to improving the physical
facilities of the water supply system. However, the financial autonomy of
the water supply sector has not improved, primarily because of the reluctance
of the Government to raise water supply tariffs in the light of
macro-economic  and  political  constraints   and  the  failure  of  the
administration to pay for water bills (paras 14 and 15).
D. Lessons Learned
6.      The principal lessons learned from the experience of this project are
that:
(a) in cases of initial operation in a sector, project preparation and
appraisal missions should put an emphasis on explaining Bank Group
procedures to officials in order to minimize startup delays;
(b) a careful review of the procurement process within project
implementing agencies and measures to remove any administrative
bottlenecks is essential for smooth project implementation;
(c) without a cost-recovery policy which ensures the financial autonomy
of the sector, any institutional strengthening effort is, at best, a
half-hearted attempt;
(d) where settlement of Government utility bills is a chronic problem it
may be advisable to insist that the annual budget of the Government
provide adequately for such bills and that adequate safeguards be put
in place for the timely release of these funds to the utilities;
(e) frequent supervision missions with the full complement of skills
facilitate project implementation.



NIGER
FIRST WATER SUPPLY rROJECT
(Credit 1309 - NIR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Proiect Identity
Project Name: First Water Supply Project
Credit No. : 1309-NIR
RVP Unit    : Africa Region
Country      : Niger
Sector       : Water Supply and Sanitation
ubsector   : Water Supply
B. w atroduct- a
1.        . s completion  report is a retrospective  look at IDA's maiden
intervenzion in the Water Supply and Sanitation sector in the Republic of
Niger.  IDA's involvement with the sector in Niger began in February 1981
when the Government invited representatives to participate in a donor's
conference held at that time.  An identification mission visired Niger in
March 1981 and a pre-appraisal mission followed in september 1981.
2.      At the outset, all the various water-related IDA missions to Niger
were unanimous in the perception that financial assistance from the donor
community to develop Niger's water slipply sector, while being ample, was not
being effectively utilized.   The reason for this was a number of severe
constraints.  The primary sector development constraint was the   lack of
coordination within  the Government.   Responsibilities  for water sector
development were dispersed among a multitude of public agencies without any
apparent rationale.   The second factor hindering the development of the
sector was a financial one: the operating agencies did not generate
sufficient revenues to enable them to maintain the sector installations, let
alone to make any contribution to the financing of the water sector
investme%nt program.  The agencies were, therefore, obliged to go to the
central Government for subsidies to cover operating lesses. These subsidies
were, however, infrequent and insufficient and as a result water supply
service deteriorated.   Thirdly, there was an absence of skilled  sector
personnel in adequate numbers thus limiting the ability of the agencies to
properly plan for, execute the constructior. of, operate and maintain water
supply installations.



-2-
3.      Against this backdrop, and with the encouragement of Niger's head of
state, sector officials commissioned consultants to undertake a sector
organization study with a view toward obtaining recommendations for
rationalizing the sector.   The pre-appraisal missior. that visited Niger
around the period the sector study was about to be awarded surmized that the
time allocated to the study and the scope, as then conceived, would not
permit an in-depth analyLis of all of the sector's organizational and
financial issues. It made recommendations, therefote, that a more detailed
study encompassing the elements described above be carried out at a later
date.
C. Proiect Obiectives and Description
4.      IDA's principal objective in preparing the First Water Supply Project
in Niger was to assist the Government undertake studies leading to
recommendations for strengthening the institutional framework of the sector;
improving the financial and technical management of the sector and to
rationalize the plarning of sector activities while concurrently ensuring
the maximum utilization of the existing water supply infrastructure.  The
project, therefore, sought in the long term to prepare a financially viable
and autonomous sector entizy  and, in the short term, to help build up
existing agencies in order to achieve improved operations and succesful
transfer of their responsibilities.
5.      With the objectives as described above the project comprised:
(a) Technical a,v.sistance (17 man-years)
(i)   Eight man-years of a planner and two hydrogeologists to set up the
Ministry of Hydraulics' regionalized services for the planning and
supervision of rural water supply projects and to permit on-the-
job training for the counterpart Nigerien staff who would
subsequently take over the expatriates' responsibilities;
(ii)   4.5 man-years of 3 technicians (a stores supervisor, a    garage
mechanic and a works superintendent) to strengthen OFEDES'
logistic sections and to train and assist lonal officials; and
(iii)   4.5 man-years of a commercial officer,  a water distribution
technician and a meter technician to reinforce the water supply
operations of NIGELEC.
(b) Consulting Services and Studies (10 man-years)
(i)   an inventory of water and power connections in NIGELEC's
Niamey operations;



-3-
(ii)   feasibility studies to restructure sector entities and to  advi
se on the establishment of a national water supply service and the
establishment of manpower requirements;
(iii)   feasibility and engineering design for follow up
rural/urban water supply projects;
(iv)   detailed design and supervision of priority measures  financed
under this project (items under (d) below); and
(v)   development and implementation of financial and cost-accounting
systems for OFEDES.
(c) Training and Complementary Education (32 man-years)
(i)   Three man-years  of  a water  specialist  training  officer  to
strengthen the curriculum and activities of NIGELEC's traning
center and of the health schools; and 4 man-years of additional
overseas training for accounting, financial and technical junior
staff, together with equipment and material for the training of
the water supply branch;
(ii)   about 25 man-years of scholarships for: (a) educating students and
postgraduate nationals in regional African or overseas university-
level schools focussing on water supply activities; and (b)
enabling MH technical staff to complement their engineering
training in the water supply field.
(d) Investments
(i)   Construction of regional offices and workshops and supply of
related equipment and vehicles for decentralizing MH's services;
(ii)   Reinforcem.-it of the Niamey and Dosso water supply schemes by
upgrading the treatment plants in Niamey, drilling and equipmen
t of boreholes, construction of a reservoir and extension of th
e distribution network in Dosso;
(iii)   Provision of production and domestic meters and equipment and
construction of meter maintenance workshops for the NIGELEC water
operations;
(iv)   Provision of derricks,  tow trucks and grab-buckets  for
OFEDES' maintenance operations.



-4-
D. Prolect Design and Organization
6.      It was clear at the outset that the primary problem of the water
supply sector in Niger was an institutional one.   Given the lead time
required to achieve any meaningful institutional improvement and the paucity
of qualified sector persoanel, it was evident that assistance from th^ Bank
Group would need to proceed in stages if it was going to have any impact on
the sector in Niger. In view of this the strategy adopted by IDA to assist
Niger's water supply sector in stages was a good one.
7.      The first stage of IDA intervention was  o form the backbone for the
projec'.,.  It was to cormiprise, as its primar   o ponent, a detailed water
sector institutional study.  This, it was hope.  * .uld lead to the initiation
of action to consolidate responsibility for the planning, operation and
maintenance of the sector. Concurreaitly, the first pz-ojecc sought to gain
immediate improvements in the three agene-ies involved in the sector--namely
the Ministry responsible for water development (then called the Ministry of
Hydraulics and Environment); NIGELEC, t}e electricity coa4ipany which elso
provided water supply service in the conms with electricity service; and
OFEDES, the borehole drilling and well construction company which was also
responsible for the operation and maintenance of a few rect"-ulated water
systems in the urban centers where NIGELEC did not operate. In this manner,
the overriding concern of sector institution building was to be tackled while
concurrently the most immediate rehabilitation needs of the sector were to be
addressed by the project through a relatively modest financial commitment.
8.      The scope of the project W43 appropriate  in the light of the
objectives it sought to achieve namely to rationalize and consolidate the
water supply sector in Niger. It was timely in the sense that it came during
a period when the Government itself had come to the realization that the
water sector lacked the institutional capacity to undertake the massive
investment program necessary to meet its objectives for the sector.  All
three organizations with significant responsibility in the sector were
included in the project so that a comprehensive framework for institutional
restructuring could be established.   In this way, the sector organization
study was able to encompass the planning and regulatory agency as well as the
sector operating agencies.
E. Project Implementation
9.      The imilementation of the project got off to a slow start. The Credit
which was approved by the Board in December 1982 did not become effective
until January 1984. The main reason for this delay was the unfamiliarity of
the key sector personnel with Bank Group procedures as well as delays within
the Nigerien administration in obtaining the necessary legal and
administrative clearances. In retrospect, it would have been useful for the
Bank staff involved in project preparation and appraisal to provide more
information o-& Bank requirements and procedures given the fact that for the
majority of the Nigerien staff concerned, this was their first contact with



a Bank project. It is doubtful, however, that any time savings in the delay
referred to would nave been enough to offset the effects of the bureaucratic
delays. which,  affected  rot  only pro,ect  star6up  but  also  subsequent
implementation.
L1.     The principal difference between the project as implemented and the
one appraised is that, at the Government's request, the component for the
rehabilitation of the Yantala treatment plant (US$ 800,000) was deleted from
the IDA financed program because grant financing from German bilateral
assistance became available - the Government had apparently sent requests for
financing to both IDA and German bilateral aid for the same component at the
time the Credit was being processed. The IDA funds so freed were used to
finance more distribution extensions in Niamey.   In addition, the project
actually executed included financing for the feasibility study for the
expansion of the Niamey water supply system. In retrospect, this feasibility
study should have been included in the IDA financed project at the inception
of project preparation given its importance and the lead time required for
such studies. This oversight is, however, excusable considering that at the
time of project preparation the primary emphasis was on institutional
strengthening. At any rate, the initial omission did not have any adverse
effect on the project or the development of the sector because of the
depreciation of the CFA Franc relative to the US dollar during project
implementation, final ptoject cost, expressed in US dollar terms, did not
vary much from the appraisal estimate.
11.     The s, swness in decision making or at leas.. in the transmission of the
results of   cisions made by the Nigerien administration was an important
factor which affected project execution adversely. For instance, the bidding
documents for the expansion of the Dosso water supply system were still
officially not issued more than a year after NIGELEC, its consultants,
technical staff of the Ministry of Hydraulics and the Bank had reached
agreement on the draft copy. Project completion was delayed as a result. In
retrospect, this eventuality could not have been foreseen and, therefore,
very little could have been done to forestall it either before or during
project implementation.
12.     Quite apart from the slowness in decision making there was the problem
of the shortage of counterpart staff with the requisite training to enable
sector authorities take full adva.ntage of the project.  For instance, the
technical assistance for setting up decentralized offices of the Ministry of
Hydraulics in Maradi and Zinder was not fully utilized because the Nigerien
authorities were slow in assigning counterparts to be trained in
decentralized sector planning.  While this was due, in part, to the paucity
of personnel with the requisite skills, it was also doubtlessly due to the
ponderous nature of decision making within the Government bureaucracy.



-6-
F. Project Results
13.     The results of the project can be described as mixed.  On the one
hand, the primary objective of undertaking studies leading to recommendations
for a strengthened and more rational sector institutional framework was
achieved. The training program and the technical assistance to improve the
management of the sector were also largely successful and resulted in the
techniical management of the  sector being  improved  significantly.   The
physical components of the project were also substantially achieved leading
to noticeable improvements in the water supply service obtained from the
sector installations existing at the time of the appraisal.  On the other
hand, the sector's financial autonomy did not fare any better as a result of
thie project. This situation is due to the fact the Niger Government has been
and continues to be extremely reluctant to adopt adequate cost-recovery
policies in a sector which the Government considers to be social such as
water supply.
G. Institutional Improvements
14.     The primary aim of the project was to assist the Government to carry
out studies leading to the avoidance of the fragmentation and dispersal of
responsibilities of the water supply and sanitation sector. The consultant
cbosen for this study made alternative rscommendations for a strengthened
sector ranging from a fully privatized water supply through a mixed
private/public company to a state-owned but autonomous agency with full
responsibility for sector investment as well as for operation and
maintenance.   These recommendations were discussed at length between the
Government and IDA. Given the little likelihood of attracting private sector
participation, the Government opted to create a national water supply company
vested with the responsibility for construction and operation of urban water
systems. The national water supply company created, Societe Nationale des
Eaux (SNE), came intu existence in September 1988 and started operations in
January 1989. As of that date, SNE assumed responsibility for the planning
and execution of all urban water supply investments.  This was previously
exercised by the Ministry of Hydraulics. SNE also became responsible for the
operation and maintenance of all urban water supply systems. These latter
responsibilities were previously dispersed among NIGELEC, the electricity
company and OFEDES,  the drilling and well maintenance  company.    This
consolidation of sector responsibilities in a single agency resulted in a
strengthened sector.
15.     The  technical  assistance  program  of  the  project  resulted  in
considerable  strengthening  of  the  water  supply  sector.    Billing  and
collection procedures of the urban water system is much better than it was
before  the  project.    OFEDES'  accounting  system  has  also  improved.
Decentralized planning in the regions of Maradi and Zinder has been
successfully introduced, by and large, resulting in improved sector
operations. Decentralized planning would have been even more effective had
the counterpart staff been assigned on time (para 12).  While the actual



training program carried out, both on the job and outside, was less than what
was envisaged, the results were largely successful as there are now more
highly skilled sector operating staff than at the time of appraisal.
H. Project Sustainability
16.     The project's principal benefits have been in: (a) establishing an
institutional framework which sets the pace for the rationalization and
consolidation of the water supply sector; and (b) strengthening the
management and staff of the water sector institutions to enable them sustain
a reasonable level of water supply service to the population.
17.     In order to reinforce these benefits, the Government will need to
adopt a more rational cost-recovery policy based on the need for ensuring the
financial integrity of the sector. In addition, the Government would have to
institute a mechanism for regular payment of water bills in order not to
jeopardize the liquidity of the operating entities.
I. IDA Performance
18.     Through  its  involvement  in  project  preparation,  appraisal  and
supervision, IDA made a constructive contribution to the development of the
water supply and sanitation sector in Niger.   IDA was instrumental  in
facilitating dialogue between the Government, project executing agencies,
consultants and contractors. IDA remained firm when the Government wanted to
deviate from the procurement guidelines thus ensuring the integrity of the
project. IDA maintained supervision at regular intervals (6-8 months) except
during the period of reorganization when there was a 15 month period without
supervision. Due to staffing constraints, project supervision for the first
two years of implementation comprised of technical staff only and, hence,
lacked a full review of the financial aspects of project implementation. In
retrospect, project execution and the success of the project could have been
strengthened if the following lessons learned from the project could have
been internalized:
(a) considering that this was the first IDA operation in the o:ector in
Niger, IDA should have perhaps spent a little more time to explain to
the project implementation authorities the requirements for projects
to be declared effective.   While this would not have completely
removed the startup delay in the case of this project (key changes in
Government accounted for part of the delay), it would have attenuat
ed the effect;
(b) appraisal missions should carefully review Government procuremen1.
procedures particularly with regards to the different levels of
contract review and the approximate time it takes to obtain the
necessary clearances for contracts to be signed once the basic
agreement  in principle has  been  obtained  and make   ipropriate
recommendations for removing potential roadblocks;



-8-
(c) in cases where the settlement of bills owed by Government agencies to
utilities is a chronic problem, agreements related to Bank projects
should ensure that adequate provision is made in the annual public
sector budget for these bills and that an acceptable pay-nent system
is put in place before a project is declared effective;
(d) frequent supervision missions comprising the full complement of
technical, financial, institutional and training skills are essential
for effective project implementation.
J. Borrower Performance
19.     The  overall  performance  of  the  project's  beneficiaries--the
Government, NIGELEC and OFEDES--is best described as mixed.   As far as
Government performance is concerned, on the one hand, the components directly
under its control-technical assistance in training, planning, studies on
sector restructuring and reinforcement of water supply systems were
satisfactorily carried out. On the other hand, the Government was slow in
taking action to get the project declared effective and in processing
contracts; and, it was tardy in assigning counterpart staff to the
decentralized centers of Maradi and Zinder, thus not fully utilizing the
technical assistance provided. Most importantly, the Government did not take
the necessary action to ensure the financial autonomy of the sector operating
entities.
20.     NIGELEC successfully carried out both the physical and technical
assistance components of its portion of the project and its audit reporting
was timely and of consistently good quality.
21.     OFEDES was  also able to carry out its portion of the project
successfully although the level of technical assistance needed was
considerably more than envisaged in the course of project preparation. Its
audit reporting was sporadic and the quality of the audits was adequate. The
reason for the relatively weaker performance of OFEDES compared to NIGELEC is
its generally lower level of technical and managerial skills compounded by a
lack of continuity in the key management.  For instance, in the course of
project execution, OFEDES went through as many as three different director
generals.    The  resulting  discontinuity  adversely affected progress  of
implementation of OFEDES' portion of the project as, with each change, time
was lost in getting the chief executive sufficiently familiar with the
project.
22.     From the experience of this project, the main lessons that can be
gleaned by the borrower are that:
(a) streamlining procurement procedures so that contracts already cleared
can be signed without undue delay is essential for timely project
completion; and



-9-
(b) a cost-recovery policy which ensures the financial autonomy of sector
operating entities is long overdue; and, furthermore, such a policy
will need to be backed up with a budgetary process which provides
adequate funds for Government agencies to pay utility bills.
K. Project Relationship.
23.     Throughout the preparation and execution of the project, the relations
between IDA, the Government and the project executing agencies remained
cordial.
24.     In addition,  relations between IDA en.d UNDP, which financed the
planning and institutional assistance to the Government, were good and
mutually supportive. However, in its evaluation of the UNDP component of the
project, UNDTCD (acting as evaluation consultants for UNDP) was very critical
of both IDA performance and that of the consultants who carried out the
planning and institutional assistance. These criticisms, however, did not
appear to have any solid foundation. One of the principal recommendations of
the evaluation report was for a follow-up technical assistance project to be
executed by UNDTCD. The support for this recommendation may have influenced
the criticisms.
L. Consulting Services.
25.     Project implementation was substantially aided by the inputs of
consultants who assisted the beneficiaries in institution building, design
and supervision of works as well as in training of staff.   There was
considerable transfer of knowledge from the consultants to the beneficiaries
of the Credit. Because of a greater need for technical assistance to design
management systems and train staff in using these systems, actual
disbursement for consultants were about 70 percent higher than estimated.
Cooperation between the consultants and the beneficiaries was good.
M. Project Documentation and Data.
26.     The  President's  Report  served  as  a useful  basic  document  for
supervision and the project  implementation units.    Since  this was  an
engineering project,  an appraisal report was not prepared.   It would,
therefore, have been useful to have a separAte document detailing project
working papers, underlying assumptions and other implementation data for the
use of the beneficiaries and IDA supervision missions.



- 10 -
NIGER
FIRST WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CREDIT 1309-NIR
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A. Related Bank Loans/IDA Credits
27.     None. This project was the first operation by the Bank Group in
Niger's Water Supply Sector.  An IDA PPF in the amount of US$330,000 was
granted to the Government on June 18, 1982 to finance: (a) detailed design
for the expansion of the water supply systems of Niamey and Dosso; (b) study
for increasing the capacity of the Niamey water treatment plant; (c)
establishment  of  general  accounting  systems  in  OFEDES;  and,  (d)  the
preparation of an inventory of water and power connections in Niamey.
B. Project Timetable
Table 1: Planned, Revised and Actual Dates of Project Timetable
Planned          Revised            Actual
Identification            03/81             03/81
Preappraisal                   _           03/81             _
Appraisal              11/81               _              11124/81
Negotiations             04/82             06/82           10/07/82
Board Approval            07/82             10/82           12/14/82
Credit Signature                 _                 _          06/13/83
Credit Effectiveness         03/83             03/83            01/31/84
Project Completion          12/85             12/87            12/31/88
Credit Closing            06/86             06/88           02/14/89



- 11 -
Comments on Prolect Timetable
28.        The project was appraised in November 1981.  Negotiations took
place in Paris on October 7-8, 1982 and Board Presentation took place on
December 14, 1982. This remarkable project processing schedule was, however,
marked by delays in subsequent steps.
29.        For instance, project signing took place six months after Board
Ar,proval and the project did not become effective until January 31, 1984 some
13 months after Board approval notwithstanding the urgency accorded the
project by the Government. The reasons for these delays was slowness of the
Nigerian bureaucracy--a reason which appears to play an important role in the
execution of subsequent project steps.
30.        The closing date of the project was postponed, on two occasions,
at the request of the Government. Thc initial request was to postpone the
closing date by a year (from June 30, 1986 to June 30, 1987) in order to
allow for: the completion of the water supply system at Dosso; completion of
water sector restructuring study and the feasibility study for the expansion
of the Niamey water supply system; further tecThnical assistance to NIGELEC
and well as the contiiuation of intermediate and higher level training
program. The second postponement also by 12 months was again to allow for
the completion of the works at Dosso as well as for the completion of the
purchase and renovation of the headquarters for the national water supply
company and for additional technical assistance to strengthen OFEDES
accounts.
C. Credit Disbursement
Table 2: Cumulative Estimated and Actual disbursements (SDR million)
FY         Appraisal          Actual          Actual
Estirate      Disbursement       as Z Apr
83            0.47             0.00              0
84            2.81             0.76              27
85            5.63             1.36              24
86            6.10             2.12              35
87              -              3.66              60
88          _                  4.97              81
89              -              5.87              96



- 12 -
Date of Final Disbursement: February 14, 1989.
Comments on Disbursements
31.          An amount of SDR 234,839.15 being the undisbursed balance as of
the date of last disbursement was canceled. Following the closing date, the
Government presented a disbursement request no. 285-BIS for CFAF 16.9 million
which was returned unpaid.
32.          Disbursement lagged primarily because of the slow implementation
of the project especially during startup which was the result of bureaucratic
delays on the part of the Government in processing items such as contract
awards.
D. Project Implementation
Table 3: Planned and Actual Completion Dates
Planned            Actual         Months
Completion         Completion       Delay
Technical Assistance
To Ministry of Hydraulics                    December 1985      December 1986       -
To NIQELEC                                     June 1986          June 1987         24
To OFEDES                                    October 1984         Jun. 1988         32
Consulting Services and Studies
Inventory of Connections                     February 1983       March 1984         14
Sector Restructuring and Manpower             August 1983       December 1987
and Training Assessment                     February 1984      December 1987
Audit Accounts and Internal Audit              June 1984          June 1988
Set-up
Detailed Design and Supervision
Traininc
Graduate and Post Graduate Training          December 1986       August 1987
Complementary Training                        April 1986          June 1986
Secondment of Trainers at CMEE                April 1986          June 1988
Accounting, Financing and Technical          October 1986        August 1987
Training
Investments
Construction of Offices and Workshops        October 1983       December 1987       C
Meter Supply                                  April 1984        December 1984
Niamey Treatment and Distribution Works        May 1984          March 1988
Dosso Production and Distribution Works        June 1984          June 1988
Well Maintenance Equipments                  October 1983       December 1984



- 13 -
E.     Proiect Costs and Financing
Table 4: Actual and Estimated Proiect Costs
l                                       T                                 USS (000)
-___________ _  Estimated                Actual                  Differenc-
T<chnical Assistance
UNDP financed                                           1200                      1066                     -llX
IDA financed                                             B00
Consulting Services and Studies                           1070                      3220                      72%
Training                                                   630                       270                     -49%
Water Supply Investments                                  also                      3700                      1ex
Contingencies                                             1440
TOTAL                 1                   8220                      8266                       ON



- 14 -
F.     Project Results
Table 5: Allocation of Credit Proceeds (SDR)
Category                        Allocation              Actual             Actual
| _______________________________                                Disbursement     Allocation   (%)
(1) Consultant's and expert's                   1,650,000       2,762,811                    187
services
(2) Training and education                        470,000          228,126                    47
assignments abroad; training
*qulpment
(3) Goods                                       1,600,000          598,488                    40
(4) Civil Works                                 1,310,000        2,140,818                   1683
(6) Refunding of project preparation              310,000          152,151                    49
advance
(6) Unallocated                                   860,000          234,839                     0
TOTAL                             100,000           8,100,000                100
!/ The amount remaining an of the 2/14/89 lost disbursement date was concelod.



- 15 -
G. Status of Credit Covenants
Table 6: Comnliance with Credit Covenants
SECTION/COVENANT             J         STATUS OF COMPLIANCE
A.  Development Credit Agreement                                                  l
Subsidiary agreement of          Complied.
3.01(b)  Government with NIGELEC and
OFEDES to be submitted to
IDA                               __||
3.02     Employment of consultants        Complied. All consultants were
satisfactory to IDA             engaged in accordance with IDA
guidelines.
3.04(a)  Construction documents to be   Complied.
submitted to IDA
3.04(b)   Quarterly reports to be         Complied.
submitted to IDA                                                        I
4.03(a)  Government to cause NIGELEC    Complied.
and OFEDES to maintain
separate project accounts.
4.03(b)  Audited accounts of projects   Partially complied with. All
and implementing agencies to   NIGELEC accounts were submitted on
be submitted to IDA.             time. OFEDES accounts for 1983-1985
submitted on time and late
thereafter.
4.05     Government to cause NIGELEC    Implemented in October 1984.
to establish not later than
June 30, 1983 a separate
Water Supply Department to
be responsible for water
operations.                           ._11
4.06(a)  Government to carry out          Complied in essence. Study was
sector restructuring study      completed in December 1985.
by December 31, 1983.
4.06(c)   Plan of action for sector       Complied.
restructuring to be
submitted to IDA.                                                       l
4.06(d)   Government to carry out         Complied. National water company
sector restructuring            established in April 1988.
following recommendations of
study in 4.06(a).



- 16 -
4.08(a)  Government to take action to  Complied. New tariffs put into
increase water revenues by      effect in January 1983 were
not less than 20Z by            sufficient to raise revenues for
March 1, 1983.                  1983 by 20Z.
4.08(b)  Government to provide            Partially complied.
subsidies to NIGELEC and
OFEDES to cover deficits
from water operations.
4.09(a)  Government to take action to  Partially complied. A 12t tariff
ensure that starting in 1985   increase was implemented in January
revenues from water tariffs    1985 which enabled NIGELEC to cover
would be sufficient to cover   the required expenses in 1985 in
all operating expenses,         subsequent years is sustained
taxes, depreciation and         deficits. Water tariffs have not
l_______ interest charges.                chanRed since 1985.
4.09(b)  Government to provide funds    Partially complied.
to uFELES for the
maintenance of rural wells
and boreholes not reimbursed
by users on municipalities.
4.10(a)  Government to ensure that        Partially complied. Receivables
accounts receivable from        outstanding over 4 months were
water activities of NIGELEC    eliminated in 1984 (see below) but
and OFEDES do not exceed the   then began to build up again
equivalent of four months       thereafter.
l _______    sales.
4.10(b)  Government to provide a plan  Essentially complied. Government
of action by                    was able to reduce outstanding
December 1, 1983 ensuring       receivables owed to NIGELEC within
elimination of Government       four months in 1984 but this was
arrears to NIGELEC for water  made possible only because of a
consumption outstanding by      loan from CCCE.
more than four months.



- 17 -
H. Mission Data
Table 7: Mission Data
j~ ~~~~~_________   .=.                                           = .  ._________ _- 
Item     ~     Io./Ye-r   No. of     Mission      Man    Status  Problems    Date of
Porsons    Composition    Weks                       Report
_|   icdentification     03/a11      2            S         4.0                        04/22/81
Preoaration        07/78       2          H.E         2.0                      10/81/78 d/
Appraisal         11/81       2          S,F         4.0                      01/04/82 e/
Post-Appraisal      03/79       1           H          1.0                        08/01/79
Pre Negotiations     08/79       2          H,E      ,  .5                         08108179
Supervision I       06/88       1           S                          - .1C_,   07/28/83
Supervision 2       03/84       1           S          __            _o          04/12/84
Supervision a       10/84      2           S.T         2.0           _02/06/86
Supervision 4       08/85      2           S.F         2.0                       08/02/86
Supervision 5       10/85       1           S          1.0                       12/24/86
Supervision 6       02/88       1           S          3.0                       04/14/86
Supervision 7       10/86       1           S          1.0                       10/27/__
SuDervision 8       03/88      2           S.F         2.0                       04/16/88
Supervision 9       02/89      2           S.F         2.0                     j 04/04/89
Comments on Project Implementation
33.     The  project  was  modified  to  include  financing  of  the  future
headquarters of the new water supply company.  The purchase and renovation of
the building was completed in december 1987.
34.     Due to delays in startup and in the signing of the contract for the
Dosso water supply system, completion of this phase was about 4 years behind
schedule.
35.     The contract to provide technical assistance to OFEDES was extended
to June 1988 to allow for the setting up of an analytical cost accounting
system and the training of staff to use the improved accounting system.
Comments on allocation of Credit Proceeds
36.     About 67 percent more was disbursed for technical assistance and
consultant services than was initially allocated. This is due to the need to
extend the technical assistance to both OFEDES and NIGELEC in order to
provide further strengthening and on-the-job training for their staff. The
increase also reflects the fact that the feasibility study for the expansion
of the Niamey water supply system was later added to the project.



- 18 -
37.     The training program realized was about half of what was envisaged
because of delays in the prenaration of the t:aining program and difficulties
in getting the few sector staff, already stretched, to leave their jobs for
any sustained period of time.
38.     A little over 60 percent more was spent on civil works than was
envisaged at appraisal because IDA agreed, at the Government's request, to
include the financing of the headquarters for the national water company in
the project.
39.     Goods financed by the project were about 40 percent of the appraisal
estimate.   The primary difference was that IDA agreed to the Government's
request that KFW finance the rehabilitation of the water production system in
Niamey. This was originally to have been financed by IDA.
40.     The closing date was extended for two 12-month period with the final
closing date being June 30, 1988. As of February 14, 1989 the undisbursed
amount of SDR 234,839 was canceled from the Credit.



4~~5                   '                '3>w;   t
Ao 2 r  4    -   -              \,
^ , . ! . o g E~   \-   0E\ 3,~      \ 
~ I
r     ,       x        ,        O.~8



