Document of                               FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3285-NIR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF U.S.$6.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FOR A
WATER SUPPLY PROJRCT
November 15, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =  CFAF 1/
US$1.00          =  CFAF 340
CFAF 1,000       =  US$2.94
US$1             =  SDR 1.07234
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Niger    =    January 1 - December 31
NIGELEC                 =    January 1 - December 31
OFEDES                        October 1 - September 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CCCE      -  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
IDA       -  International Development Association
ILO       -  International Labor Organization
KfW       -  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MH        -  Ministry of Hydraulics
NIGELEC   -  Societe Nigerienne d'Electricite
OFEDES    -  Office des Eaux du Sous-Sol
PPF       -  Project Preparation Facility
UNCDF     -  United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNDP      -  United Nations Development Program
4HO       -  World Health Organization
cu.m      -  Cubic Meter (1 cu.m = 220 Imp. Gallons)
1/   The CFA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) in the ratio
of FF 1 to CFAF 50. The French Franc is currently floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Republic of.Niger
Beneficiaries:       Ministry of Hydraulics; Societe Nigerienne d'Electricite
(NIGELEC); Office des Eaux du Sous-Sol (OFEDES)
Amount:              SDR 6.10 million (US$6.5 million)
Terms:               Standard
Relending Terms:    The Niger Government would pass on amounts equivalent to
US$1.95 million and US$1.4 million to NIGELEC and OFEDES
respectively in the form of equity.
Project              The objectives of the proposed project are to contribute
Description:       to the Government's efforts in rationalizing policies and
strategies in the water supply sector through studies,
technical assistance and training and to assist the most
urgent investment needs of the sector agencies. The
proposed studies would include the feasibility of restruc-
turing the existing sector institutions; the manpower and
long-term training needs; review of accounting systems and
procedures with subsequent follow up in implementation;
and the preparation of technical feasibility work. Train-
ing and technical assistance would develop and strengthen
the planning, operating and construction supervision
activities of the sector entities. The priority invest-
ment measures would provide supplies and equipment needed
to improve water supply operations and for minor water
production and distribution extensions to two major urban
systems.
Project Risks:       While potential risks exist with regard to timely imple-
mentation of the proposed restructuring of sector insti-
tutions, appropriate measures have been provided to
minimize such risks, and the Government is keenly
interested in the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Project Costs
The cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$8.2 million
net of taxes, including foreign costs of about US$7.55 million. A summary
table of cost estimates is shown below.
Local     Foreign      Total
…--------US$ -000---------
a.   Technical Assistance
1 Planner and 2 Hydrogeologists in MH         50        1,050       1,100
3 Technicians to OFEDES                       30          330         360
3 Officer & Technicians to NIGELEC            40          400         440
Subtotal                           120       1,780       1,900
b.   Consulting Services & Studies
. Inventory of Power/Water connections
in Niamey                                   40          230         270
- Sector Restructuring, Manpower and
training requirements; and feasibi-
lity of schemes                             15          365         380
. Audit of NIGELEC accounts; Setting up
of accounting systems in OFEDES             10          260         270
- Detailed design and Supervision              8          142         150
Subtotal                            73          997      1,070
c.   Training and Complementary Education
. Overseas training                            0          180         180
. Scholarships                                 0          200         200
. Water Supply Training Officers              10          240         250
. Equipment for Training Centers              10          160         170
Subtotal                            20         780         800
d.   Priority Measures Investments
. Equipment & Construction of regional
offices and Workshops                       40          340         380
. Borehole drilling, Reservoir cons-
truction and distribution extension
in Dosso                                    50          450         500
. Treatment Plant Upgrading and Distri-
bution extension in Niamey                  70          730         800
. Construction of Meter maintenance
facilities and Supply of Meters
for NIGELEC                                 50          700         750
. Supply of Equipment for OFEDES' well
maintenance brigades                        30          720         750
Subtotal                           240       2,940       3,180



- iii -
Local     Foreign      Total
---US$ 000             …
Base Costs                                    453       6,497       6,950
Physical Contingencies                         47          186        233
Price Contingencies                           150          867      1,017
Total                              650        7,550       8,200
Financing Plan
The proposed Credit of US$6.5 million equivalent would meet the
entire foreign exchange cost of the project with the exception of the tech-
nical assistance to the Ministry of Hydraulics which would be financed under a
US$1.05 million grant by UNDP; the Government would finance the local cost
component estimated at US$0.65 million equivalent.
Estimated Disbursements
FY83     FY84      FY85      FY86
Annual                         0.5      2.5       3.0       0.5
Cumulative                     0.5      3.0       6.0       6.5
Rate of Return:  Not Applicable
Staff Appraisal Report: None
Map: 16,258



I



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NIGER FOR A WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Niger for the equivalent of Special
Drawing Rights 6.1 million (US$6.5 million) on standard IDA terms to help
finance a proposed Water Supply project. UNDP would contribute US$1.05
million to the project as a grant.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Economic Memorandum:  Niger" was distributed to
the Executive Directors on May 13, 1976. An economic mission visited Niger
in June 1982, and the main findings of the mission are incorporated in the
following paragraphs. Annex I contains updated Country data.
Background
3.        With its 1.27 million km2 of land, Niger is about 2.5 times the
size of France. Niger is a landlocked country, and its closest access to the
sea is about 600 km from Niger's southern border. Nearly 90 percent of the
total population is concentrated in a thin band along the Niger river. Only
12 percent of the land is considered arable, and only 2.5 percent is actually
under cultivation. Rainfall is limited (350-750 mim) and often irregular, and
soil fertility is low and declining. The total population is estimated at 5.3
million in 1980 and is growing at about 2.8 percent per annum. Per capita
income was estimated at US$330 in 1980. Niger's social indicators are among
the lowest in the world. Life expectancy at birth, which is only 43 years, is
low even by African standards. The adult literacy rate is only 8 percent and
the primary enrollment ratio only 26 percent.
4.        Niger belongs to the West African Monetary Union which provides its
members with a common currency (the CFA Franc) fully convertible into French
Francs. The full convertibility of the CFA Franc and the liberal foreign
trade policies pursued by the Monetary Union members kept the Nigerien economy
very open in the past. This openness was further strengthened by the very
strong trade links that have always existed between Niger and its neighbors,
particularly Nigeria. Another particularly important characteristic of the
Monetary Union is the strong discipline imposed over monetary and fiscal
policies of the member countries, in return for the guaranteed convertibility
of the currency. As is generally the case in open economies, excessive credit
expansion quickly leads to increased imports, balance of payments deficits
and a loss in foreign reserves. This being recognized by the Union member
countries, their common Central Bank was empowered with strong controls over
the domestic credit ceilings.



- 2 -
5.        Like other Sahelian economies, Niger's is dominated by subsistance
agricultural activities with millet and sorghum occupying 80 percent of the
cultivated area. The discovery of large uranium deposits in the late sixties
and their development, accelerated by the world oil crisis of the mid-seventies,
propelled the mining sector into an important position in Niger's economy.
The sector is now providing nearly 70 percent of Niger's total export earnings
and an important share of the government revenues.
Economic Achievements in the Seventies
6.        During the past decade Niger went from a period of despair to a
period of almost unlimited hope in the future. Between 1970 and 1975 Niger
experienced one of the severest and longest droughts of its history. Its
livestock herd was decimated, and food production declined by nearly 60
percent. At the height of the drought in !974/75, Niger registered a food
grain deficit of nearly one million tons. Real per capita GDP declined at
an average annual rate of 0.5 percent. On the expenditure side, per capita
consumption declined by 6 percent per annum although gross domestic investment
grew at a modest annual rate of 3.2 percent with the help of increasing
foreign aid. Uranium production and export began as early as 1971 and the
impact of the sector on the national economy grew moderately in the first
half of the seventies as prices were stable.
7.        During the second half of the decade Niger's fortune changed
dramatically. More favorable climatic conditions allowed an accelerated
recovery of the agricultural sector. With intensive government programs the
Nigerien livestock herd was rapidly reconstituted. Food production steadily
increased and by 1979 Niger was once again self-sufficient and even managed to
show a substantial surplus. Nigerien agriculture has indeed performed excep-
tionally well for a Sahalian country. In spite of having half the per capita
arable land of the neighboring countries, a poorer soil fertility and less
water resources, Niger's per capita food production has consistently been
superior to its neighbors'. By 1977, uranium exports accounted for 53 percent
of total exports of goods and non-factor services, and that share increased to
70 percent at the end of the decade. As prices and quantities exported
increased rapidly Niger's total export receipts increased from CFAF 11.9
billion in 1975 to CFAF 85 billion in 1979. The contribution of the sector
to public revenues followed the same trend. The share of uranium in total
government revenues steadily increased from 18.3 percent in 1975 to an all
time high of 41.6 percent in 1979. As prices and quantities exported increased
rapidly, Niger's total export receipts increased from CFAF 11.9 billion in
1975 to CFAF 85 billion in 1979. Government uranium revenues grew from CFAF
4.1 billion to CFAF 24.6 billion in the same period. As a result of the good
performance of these two sectors, real GDP grew at an average annual rate of
7.2 percent. On the expenditure side per capita consumption grew at an annual
rate of 4.5 percent and gross domestic investment at an average rate of 6.7
percent.



- 3-
The Eighties and the Uranium Crisis
8.        The decade of the eighties started with serious signs pointing to
a long lasting crisis of the uranium sector. Uranium export earnings stagnated
at around CFAF 95 billion in the last three years, and government revenues
sharply declined from CFAF 24.6 billion in 1979 to CFAF 12.5 billion in
1982.
9.        During the same three years agricultural sector performance has
also been mediocre. Unfavorable climatic conditions forced Niger once again
to supplement its food production by increasing quantities of grain imports.
Food grain deficits in 1981 and 1982 were estimated at about 100,000 tons per
year. For the first time since 1975 real GDP has stagnated in 1982.
10.       Unfortunately this serious slowdown in the economic activities was
not followed by an equal slowdown in Niger's public expenditures. The lack of
clear signals from the uranium market experts left the Nigerien authorities
uncertain about the future of the sector. It was not until 1982 that they
initiated action to adapt to their changed export and revenue prospects.
During this period the government continued to implement an ambitious Five-
Year Development Plan by increasingly relying on foreign borrowing to finance
the public investment expenditures.
Public Finance
11.       Throughout the 70's the Government demonstrated considerable
restraint in expanding its current expenditure. This was even true during
the uranium boom when current expenditures were always covered by non-
uranium revenues. However, during the uranium boom the Government pursued
an aggressive investment policy, which continued into the recession in the
uranium sector. Public investment steadily increased from 34.2 billion CFAF
in 1976/77 to 77.8 billion FCFA in 1980/81.
12.       During the same time the overall Government deficit increased from
5.5 billion CFAF (10 percent of total government revenues including grants) to
32 billion CFAF (31 percent of total revenues). An increasing reliance on
borrowing to finance its investment has led to a severe debt burden which the
Government will have to face for some years to come. The Government will have
to allocate nearly 25 percent of its total revenues to service its debt in
1982/83.
Balance of Payments
13.       In spite of the rapid increase  in export earnings from uranium
between 1977 and 1981, Niger's balance of payments continued to be charac-
terized by large current account deficits which increased from about US$170
million to US$360 million. Until 1981, the net capital inflow from borrowing
and from the parallel rapid growth in foreign aid (para. 18), allowed Niger to
continue to accumulate substantial foreign reserves despite the increasing
trade deficit. By 1982, though, the continuing stagnation of exports and



-4-
rapidly increasing debt service payments are expected to cause a decline in
reserves, which could reach about US$50 million, a reduction by half. The
pessimistic outlook for uranium exports could lead to further weakening of the
balance of payments situation in the next few years if corrective measures are
not taken. Also, under the rules of the West African Monetary Union, Niger
will soon face restrictive monetary and fiscal limits to correct its balance
of payments situation.
14.       The financing of this deficit (and service of prior debt) cause
total public and public-guaranteed debt from abroad to increase from US$269
million in 1977 to US$915 million in 1982. Nearly 46 percent of the increase
occurred in the year 1980. The service on this debt increased dramatically
from US$9 million to US$63 million in the period, reflecting the substantial
change in the structure of the debt, as commercial borrowing, which accounted
for only 2.5 percent of debt outstanding in 1977, increased its share to 29
percent at the end of 1981.
Development Planning
15.       The Five-Year Development Plan, 1979-1983, was conceived at the
peek of the uranium boom and under the assumption that the boom would last
for at least the duration of the Plan. This assumption combined with a
firm commitment to a maximum development effort by the political leadership
led to a highly ambitious investment target for the plan period.
16.       The basic objectives of the Plan were:  (a) the modernization
of agriculture and livestock production; (b) a high rate of economic growth
spurred by investments in mining, industry, transportation and communications;
(c) human resources development; and (d) a gradual reduction of regional
disparities in income. Limited absorptive capacity and difficulties in
project preparation caused primarily by manpower constraints in some sectors
have led to large cost overruns and a severe distortion in the structure
of the public investment expenditure during the first three years of the
Plan. In 1980, for example, more than 63 percent of public invesment was
outside directly productive sectors.
17.       After the deterioration of the financial situation in 1980 and 1981,
the Government was forced to slow down its investment expenditure in 1982 and
is considering the preparation of an interim plan for the next two or three
years aimed at consolidating the economic and financial situation. In April
1982, the Head of State informed the people that Niger will have to adjust to
its new financial situation and has called for the definition of a "Consolida-
tion" program aimed at safeguarding the most essential of the investment
program and strengthening the financial situation of the Government. Unfortu-
nately, progress on the complex task of translating the concept of "Consoli-
dation" to a concrete program of action has been slow.
Foreign Aid
18.       Official development assistance to Niger more than doubled between
1977 and 1981. Excluding food aid, for which little information is available,
this assistance increased from about US$115 million in 1977 to an all time



high of US$240 million in 1981. Most of the aid to Niger is provided by six
donors. France and the Federal Republic of Germany contribution represented
more than a third of total aid inflows. These countries are followed in
order of importance by IDA, the F.E.D., Canada and U.S.A.  Between 1977 and
1981, rural development claimed the largest share (33 percent) of the total
aid, followed by industry and mining (18 percent) transport and telecom-
munication (16 percent) and education (11 percent).
Niger's Future Development Prospects
19.       Niger's future economic and social development will be severely
constrained, at least in the medium term, by its underdeveloped human re-
sources. A serious effort in the development of human resources will be
needed for a long time to come. Primary education will have to be expanded
as rapidly as feasible until it becomes universal, and professional and
vocational training designed and developed to meet the growing needs of
the Nigerien economy. However, the increasing scarcity of public revenues
will require original solutions to the financing of such human resources
development.
20.       With the continued pessimistic outlook for the uranium sector in
the 1980's, Niger once again will have to rely primarily on its limited
agricultural resources as its leading sector. However, the future of its
agriculture is uncertain. Past increases in production were achieved through
more intensive use of better soils and greater use of marginal lands.
Continuation of these practices could severely reduce soil fertility over
time. The maintenance of food self-sufficiency in the eighties and beyond
can only be achieved through gradual improvements in yields on lands that
are already under cultivation. Given past low levels of investment in human
resources, the severe financial constraint on their future development and
finally the limited state of the existing agricultural technology suited to
Niger's conditions, the needeed improvements will be very difficult to achieve
without a major and continuing support from the international community.
Also, support for greater use of modern agricultural inputs, the development
of small scale irrigation schemes, and applied research will be crucial to
Niger's agriculture future development.
21.       In short, Niger's future economic and social development could
only be achieved through greater efforts in human resources and agricultural
developments. In addition to the major constraints enumerated above, Niger
will have to face the problem of re-financing the large foreign debt inherited
during the past few years. The Nigerien authorities are now aware of the need
for structural adjustments to safeguard Niger's potential economic growth in
the future. However, the necessary adjustments could only be feasible with
increased foreign technical and financial assistance. Under the growing
financial constraint the Government will be finding it increasingly difficult
to meet counterpart financing commitments' and project design will in the
future have to pay even more attention to this constraint. Given a resource
situation with little promise for the next five to ten years, the extremely
low level of development and the largely unmet basic needs of the population,
there will be a need for concessional flows, for local as well as foreign
exchange costs.



- 6 -
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN NIGER
22.       Twenty-one IDA credits, including two supplementary credits, have so
far been approved for Niger totalling US$184.3 million. Annex II contains a
summary statement of these credits as of September 30, 1982 and notes on the
execution of current projects. Bank Group lending has covered transport,
communication, education, rural and industrial development. Eight of the
credits were in the rural sector (drought relief, rural development, forestry,
irrigation and livestock). In the road sector the Association has financed
five projects to-date (of which two are ongoing) aimed mainly at expanding and
upgrading the domestic road network.
23.       In agriculture, Bank Group lending has supported Government's
generally sound strategy, namely regional projects aimed at increasing produc-
tion, gradual development of the country's irrigation potential, provision of
services to pastoralists, and crop-livestock integration. Due to the severity
of the natural constraints and the present state of technical knowledge,
agricultural and livestock development in Niger will be slow and difficult.
However, experience with ongoing projects has demonstrated that potential does
exist, and can be realized with the provision of appropriate inputs and
extension services. In transport, any future projects will place more emphasis
on assistance for maintenance and for expanding the network of feeder roads to
support the Government's agricultural program; a feeder roads project approved
in FY79 marks a first step towards this objective.
24.       In keeping with Niger's overall development strategy, future Bank
Group lending will continue efforts in the rural and transport sectors, but
also increasingly support Government efforts to diversify the economic struc-
ture, expand modern sector employment, and meet its manpower requirements. We
will also continue to advise Government on policy issues and options through
our economic and sector work. The Bank Group is currently evaluating a
technical assistance project which will assist Government in carrying out a
medium term financial and economic consolidation program and provide training
and equipment to improve management capabilities of selected government
agencies.
25.       Niger's performance in project implementation and disbursement has
in general been quite satisfactory particularly in light of the environmental,
institutional and managerial constraints within the country.
PART III - WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
Water Resources
26.       Apart from a narrow corridor bordering the Niger River in the
southeastern part of the country, the water resources are moF' .y based on
groundwater potential. Annual rainfall averages 500 mm Jr. .e Southern
Soudano-Sahelian zone and quickly falls to less than 200 m- in Sahelian and
desert zones, and amounts recharged into the ground appeal barely enough to
replace withdrawals made for small irrigation and water supply needs.



- 7-
Water Supply and Sanitation Services
27.       About 40 percent of Niger's urban population have access to water
supply through piped systems of various standards. Most of these schemes
with the exception of towns bordering the Niger river rely on groundwater
resources. Piped water systems in larger towns have not been extended rapidly
enough to cater to the immigration which followed the 1969-1974 drought.
Simple systems in smaller towns only provide adequate supply to administration
quarters through private connections and to part of the remaining population
through public standpipes. In larger towns, municipalities overburdened by the
need to pay standpipe consumption charges have entrusted standpipes to water
vendors; private consumers are also encouraged to sell water to neighbors
without connections.
28.       Rural populations which account for more than 80 percent of the
total population are served by about 6,000 modern wells or boreholes; the
level of service varies between 19 percent in areas with bedrock substratum
to 41 percent in zones with sedimentary formations. The remaining rural
population uses traditional dug wells and non-perennial sources and therefore
often needs to walk long distances to fetch its basic water supply needs.
Over the past two years sector authorities have endorsed the concept of
providing the rural population with boreholes and handpumps wherever economic
in an attempt to speed up access to clean water and to meet the needs of the
rural population by 1990. This will require drilling or digging 16,000
additional water points. Also sector officials are becoming aware that a
large program of water points becomes fully successful only if the maintenance
of these works is simultaneously addressed and implies contribution by the
villagers.
29.       Until recently development of sanitation has been neglected and
preparation of some appropriate master plans with limited follow up in
implementation has been carried out in past years. Although situated in an
arid zone Niger faces short storms, and drainage works are needed. Drainage
systems consisting of open channels offer limited coverage of the six major
urban centers and are often used as outlets for temporary sewage disposal. In
main centers like Niamey, Maradi and Agadez, works reflecting appropriate
sanitation technology have been carried out with the active support of German
assistance. Collection and disposal of solid wastes, under the responsibility
of municipalities remain erratic and sometimes create health hazards. The
Government of Niger may request the Association's assistance in reviewing
current municipal financing systems and possibly undertaking reforms in
organization and cost recovery mechanisms for infrastructural services now
provided to the population.
Sector Institutions
30.       General control of the water supply sector was centralised in 1980
in the Ministry of Hydraulics (MH), operating through three Directorates--
Infrastructure, Wiater Resources, and Finance and Administration; responsi-
bility for sewerage, however, rests with the Ministry of Urban Affairs. MH's
responsibilities include policy formulation, tariff recommendations, approval



- 8 -
of capital investment programs (largely financed by external aid) and execu-
tion of projects. MH also exercises supervision over the two sector agencies
NIGELEC (Societe Nigerienne d'Electricite) and OFEDES (Office des Eaux du
Sous-Sol). Among the limiting factors to appropriate implementation of
investments in the sector are the lack of planning and supervision of works
and the severe shortage of senior staff (technicians and engineers). MH has
been unable to recruit sufficient graduates from local or regional university
schools and will have to continue to rely on expatriates for a few more years
pending implementation of the training actions set out below (para. 40).
31.       NIGELEC is primarily an electricity company supplying about twenty
urban centers under a concession system whereby the utility company is
authorized to operate publicly-owned facilities for a fixed period for its own
profit subject to agreed limitations on tariffs; however, under a parallel
arrangement, it also operates water supply systems in most of these centers,
but only as a managing agent on behalf of the State. For this service, it
receives an agreed remuneration, the State assuming profits or losses, as
well as the responsibility for financing investments. NIGELEC is a State
corporation; the Government provides eight of its eleven directors and holds
95 percent of the share capital, the balance being held by banks, local
authorities and Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique, the French
bilateral aid agency. NIGELEC is a reasonably well-managed concern with some
1,000 employees, including a dozen expatriate experts seconded from France,
Germany and Canada. Salaries of local personnel are higher than in the public
service and are adequate to retain qualified staff in sufficient numbers.
Although NIGELEC has no qualified sanitary engineers, it supplies water of a
satisfactory quality and has sufficient technical expertise to ensure that
water pumps and switchgear are in working order; however, the amount of
unaccounted-for water is excessive, at times reaching 35 percent of production
in some centers, due principally to blocked or defective meters, and probably
also to the existence of numerous unrecorded connections. Action is urgently
needed to stem this suspected drain of revenue and to streamline consumer
billing; the proposed project includes funds for a complete census of connec-
tions, supply of new meters and a meter repairshop, and technical assistance
in meter maintenance and customer administration. NIGELEC's accounting system
is slow and cumbersome; though a powerful computer is in use, it is only
slowly being developed to take advantage of its capabilities. The recent
advent of new expatriate advisers should produce improvements; in addition the
proposed project provides overseas training for Nigerien accounting staff,
building on the basic training already provided in NIGELEC's own Training
Center.
32.       OFEDES is a financially autonomous public agency administered by
a Board which comprises representatives of several Ministries and of each
province. OFEDES functions mainly in rural areas, being responsible for
maintenance of wells and boreholes as well as for operating about fifteen
small piped water supply systems in places where NIGELEC does not function.
Its main activity in practice is that of a construction enterprise, building
wells and drilling boreholes under various programs financed by the Govern-
ment or external agencies. To provide all the above services in a sparsely-
populated country like Niger, with primitive communications over large areas,



demands a high degree of organization and technical support skills; lacking
these attributes, OFEDES has mushroomed into an unwieldy and poorly organized
entity. Over five years, its staff has doubled to 2,250 without much per-
ceptible gain in output; it is short of technical maintenance staff, and its
stores and workshop services are inadequate for their tasks despite recent UN
Capital Development Fund assistance. Shortages of transport and cash flow
problems compound the difficulties of equipping and supplying work sites and
creating adequate material stocks. OFEDES also lacks qualified accountants;
its accounts are defective and tardily produced, internal financial controls
are faulty, and, in the absence of proper cost accounts, OFEDES neither knows
what any activity really costs, nor has any firm basis for its bids and
quotations. To help remedy some of these short-comings, equipment and tech-
nical assistance for maintenance would be provided under the proposed project,
and a proper system of accounting installed (including cost accounts),
on the basis of a diagnostic study recently carried out by ILO.
33.       The Government is aware that the continued fragmentation of the
sector between NIGELEC and OFEDES may cause resources to be spread too thinly,
and there is some misgiving that water supply tends to be overshadowed by
electricity in a joint operation like that of NIGELEC. As a result, the
creation of a national water entity is being considered and the Government has
commissioned a short preliminary study of the possibility. Meanwhile, im-
mediate measures need to be initiated to strengthen NIGELEC's water operation
and to facilitate the separation of the water activities when the need arises
for establishing a national water authority. Accordingly, the Government
accepts the need for a more comprehensive study to ensure that any new entity
is established on a sound financial and operational footing; the proposed
project would finance such a study. A number of initiatives have been explored
with multilateral agencies and private water companies to provide financial
and technical assistance to such a proposed water entity. The matter would
be pursued during project implementation and the Government intends to keep
interested agencies abreast of progress on the institutional studies. Mean-
while, it was agreed during negotiations that the Government will improve
the sectors institutional structure, in consultation with IDA, initially by
causing NIGELEC to strengthen its Water Department and by implementing agreed
recommendations of the Sector Restructuring Study (Draft Credit Agreement
(DCA), Section 4.06). A timetable for such actions would be the creation of a
fully self-contained Water Department by mid-1983 (Section 4.05, DCA) and its
possible conversion to a separate water authority by 1984.
34.       Apart from internal weaknesses of the individual sector agencies,
the principal institutional constraints on the sector have been (i) the lack
of a coordinating agency; (ii) the absence of long-term planning (iii) in-
adequate operating revenues. The establishment of MH has removed the first
constraint, but this Ministry is understaffed, both in numbers and quality,
to fulfill its task of sector planning and in particular of designing and
supervising execution of schemes (for which external funds are often readily
available). The Technical Assistance component of the proposed project would
attempt to remedy this shortage of staff.



- 10 -
Tariffs
35.       NIGELEC's tariffs, for both power and water, were revised in 1980;
unlike the electricity tariff which went up by about 45 percent and now
appears adequate to cover costs, the water rate (unchanged since 1971) in-
creased only by about 22 percent and will still not meet revenue shortfalls
(para. 37). Niamey, the capital, bore the highest increase (36 percent), but
still has the lowest rate, CFAF 75/m3 (US$0.22), even though it is served by
high-cost surface water; most other centers pay CFAF 95/m3 (US$0.35). The
tariff is a flat-rate one, with no graduations to favor low-income consumers
or to discourage excess consumption, and there is considerable evidence of
waste of water by the more affluent inhabitants, while others are without.
A tariff study (December 1981) financed by KfW now recommends a new scale
of charges, which would average CFAF 136.5/m3 (US$0.40) based on the medium-
term incremental cost of water, but with a progressive structure; the rate for
small domestic consumers would be CFAF 95/m (representing no increase for
some), rising by steps as consumption increases, to CFAF 155/m3. OFEDES's
tariffs also no longer reflect present-day costs; for each well, it receives
an annual maintenance fee of CFAF 25,000 (fixed in 1974) from the district
council, and for piped supplies CFAF 50/mr (unchanged since 1967). OFEDES
claims that the latter rate, in particular, needs to be approximately trebled,
and has submitted a request, supported by MH, for a revision.
36.       The Government appears to be conscious of the need to charge for
services at actual cost, if only to relieve the national budget of subsidies.
At negotiations it was agreed that i) water tariffs will be gradually adjusted
in consultation with the Association so that revenues cover the full operating
costs of piped water systems without the need for subsidy, as early as pos-
sible, and in any case no later than late 1984, when the proposed water entity
would have been established; and (ii) meanwhile NIGELEC and OFEDES's water
operating deficits would be covered (Section 4.08(b), DCA). As an initial
step in this direction the Government has agreed to implement a water tariff
adjustment resulting in an increase of revenues of not less than 20% by
March 1, 1983 (Section 4.08(a), DCA). For NIGELEC or any successor authority,
operating costs would comprise operation and maintenance expenditures, manage-
ment expenses, depreciation provisions, taxes and interest, in respect of all
its water supply activities; for OFEDES, they would comprise operation and
maintenance costs for its piped systems only, together with appropriate
allocations of the cost of its central administrative and technical services,
including depreciation of equipment and premises. (Depreciation of the
systems themselves does not arise since they do not belong to OFEDES). The
Association has also obtained assurances that the maintenance costs of rural
wells and boreholes not reimbursed by district councils or by the users will
be met by Government (Section 4.09(b), DCA).
Financial Performance of Sector Institutions
37.       Annex IV contains selected financial statements for the sector
agencies. Since NIGELEC only manages the water systems on behalf of the
State, profits or losses devolve on the Government; and with static tariffs



- 11 -
and increasing costs, losses began to appear after 1977, rising to CFAF 351
million in 1979 and CFAF 478 million in 1980 (despite the tariff increase
during that year). These were met at first from the accumulated prior surplus,
assisted by some intermittent cash subsidies, but at the end of 1980 the
Government's account in NIGELEC's books was overdrawn by CFAF 320 million
(US$0.9 million). This deficit has since been reduced by a further subsidy
of CFAF 150 million paid in 1981, but such subsidies are undesirable in
principle and a major tariff revision is clearly needed (para. 35). The State
is also responsible for capital expenditure, but many of NIGELEC's water
supply assets have been financed by using renewals funds cash (intended for
replacements) or by advances from the electricity operation; the amount so
advanced stood at CFAF 1,600 million (US$4.7 million) by end 1980. The
liquidation of these liabilities will be addressed in the institutional study
(para. 33), with the object of leaving both the water and power finances on a
sound footing. NIGELEC's water finances are further distorted in that certain
charges are borne wholly on the electricity accounts (including substantial
bank overdraft interest incurred because of the advances to the water opera-
tions); moreover there is no charge for debt service on capital expenditure,
since the loans are serviced by the Government.
38.       In contrast, OFEDES earns profits on its overall operations, but
these derive entirely from its construction activities. Despite Government
subsidies of CFAF 125 million in 1978/79, operation and maintenance services
still incurred a loss, made good out of construction profits. Both OFEDES
and NIGELEC suffer cash flow problems due to slow payment by customers; in
NIGELEC's case, though cut-offs of delinquent consumers are practised, arrears
of water revenue represent in total about 10 months' sales. Government
agencies owe the equivalent of about 12 months' water charges and 18 months'
electricity charges; and IDA has obtained assurances that these arrears will
be liquidated in accordance with a plan acceptable to the Association to be
submitted by March 1, 1983, and subsequent charges paid within four months
of billing (Section 4.10(b), DCA).
39.       NIGELEC has no internal audit and only a limited external audit.
The proposed project would help finance a complete audit of two years'
accounts by a firm of independent auditors acceptable to the Association.
Assurances have been obtained that such audits will be repeated annually
thereafter and the reports furnished to the Association within six months of
the year-end (Section 4.02(b)(ii), DCA). The project would also include
assistance by the selected firm in establishing an internal audit section
within NIGELEC. OFEDES has no audit at all, apart from certain ex-ante checks
on expenditure by a financial controller; but until the agency's accounting
systems and procedures are put on a proper footing, it would be premature to
stipulate audit requirements.
Training Needs
40.       Even with the help of expatriates, Niger does not have nearly enough
qualified sanitary engineers and technicians, and training in these disciplines
is almost non-existent within the country. For professional training it is
often necessary to go overseas, though there are related courses available



- 12 -
in other West African countries; training for technicians is also available
elsewhere in West Africa, but the courses are not tailored to Niger's specific
needs, and places are scarce, making it difficult to plan for meeting training
needs. A consultant study commissioned by IDA has found that institutions in
Niger like the Agadez School of Mines and the two Public Health training
schools (in Niamey and Zinder) could build in their existing curriculums
specialized water supply training courses for junior and intermediate tech-
nical levels, with some on-the-job experience in NIGELEC/OFEDES installations;
and that training of the engineering and administrative cadre need to be
pursued abroad. The proposed project would assist these developments by
reequipping NIGELEC's own training center with water supply training facili-
ties, providing water supply specialized trainers to the above-mentioned
training schools and NIGELEC, as well as overseas scholarships for engineers.
Sector Development and Bank Group Objectives
41.       Reflecting the uranium boom between 1975 and 1980, the five year
national plan prepared in 1979 proposed a very ambitious investment program
for both urban and rural water supply of about US$ 60 million. While the
expected Government contribution was readily forthcoming during the first
two years, it is now being severely cut back with the fall in uranium reve-
nues. Sector planning still depends largely on lists of projects prepared
by local authorities without qualified staff, and there is a need for MH
to create a national design and supervision service and establish its own
decentralised planning and project divisions.
42.       The proposed Credit would be the Association's first operation in
the water supply sector in Niger. The Bank Group objectives are to contribute
to the Government's efforts to develop appropriate sector institutions and to
rationalize policies and strategies in the sector, in particular to help
sector authorities in improved management, both financial and technical, and
in the planning of sector activities. These officials are becoming aware of
risks arising from excessive dependency on State assistance and lack of
private participation in investment of community works; they are also looking
to a national water supply entity that would speed up meeting the objectives
of access to clean water as well as undertake rational implementation and
maintenance of water works and wells. While the priority works component to
be financed under the proposed project will address immediate investment
needs, the studies, technical assistance, and training components would help
define and implement long range sector objectives and strategies. The Associa-
tion's participation would also harmoniously complement programs from other
external aid donors which have not always been able to achieve their project
objectives because of sector constraints which this project would help solve.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.       In March 1981 the Government convened a meeting of donors involved
in the water supply and sanitation sector and invited Bank staff to attend
the discussions on ways of meeting its objectives for the current five year



- 13 -
Plan. The Bank Group under its Cooperative Program with WHO had commissioned
a sector study in 1980 which was completed at about the same time and identi-
fied the current problems and needs of the sector. After review of new
developments decided on by the Government in the sector, it was agreed with
sector officials that in order to deal with the various institutional, finan-
cial and technical issues, the Association would proceed with this priority
measures Credit.
44.       A Bank Group mission visited Niamey in September 1981 to identify
the possible scope and components of the proposed project. The project was
appraised in November 1981. Negotiations were held in Paris on October 7 with
the Nigerien Delegation led by the Minister of Planning, Mr. Annou Mahamane.
There is no Staff Appraisal Report. Annex III contains supplementary project
data.
Project Objectives and Description
45.       The general objective of the project is to prepare a framework
for a financially viable and autonomous sector entity in the long term and
meanwhile to help build up existing agencies for immediate improvement of
operations and successful transfer of their responsibilities. It would also
finance a small package of urgent works, equipment and materials to ease
operations of OFEDES and NIGELEC. The institutional aspects would in
particular:
(i) provide appropriate studies for, and subsequent guidance on setting
up a national water supply entity;
(ii)  help strengthen MH's staff to enable the Ministry to fulfill its
role of planning and executing capital works;
(iii)  improve the management of NIGELEC's consumer affairs and to install
internal and external audit systems;
(iv) help OFEDES improve its organization, reinforce its logistic and
accounting services and strengthen its capacity to carry out
proper maintenance of rural water points and piped water systems for
which it is responsible.
46.       The Project would include:
(a) Technical Assistance (17 man-years)
(i) Eight man-years of a planner and 2 hydrogeologists to set up
the Ministry of Hydraulics' regionalized services for planning
and supervision of rural water supply projects and to permit
on-the-job training for the counterpart Nigerien staff who
would subsequently take over the expatriates' responsibilities;



- 14 -
(ii)  4.5 man-years of 3 technicians (a stores supervisor, a garage
mechanic and a works superintendent) to strengthen OFEDES's
logistics sections and to train and assist local officials; and
(iii) 4.5 man-years of a commercial officer, a water distribution
technician and a meter technician to assist in the creation of
independent and competent water services in NIGELEC.
(b) Consulting Services and Studies (10 man-years)
(i)  an inventory of water and power connections in NIGELEC's
Niamey operations;
(ii)  feasibility studies to restructure sector entities and to
advise on the establishment of a national water supply service
and establishment of manpower requirements;
(iii) feasibility and engineering design for follow-up rural/urban
water supply projects;
(iv)  detailed design and supervision of priority measures financed
under this project (items under (d) below); and
(v)  development and implementation of financial and cost accounting
systems for OFEDES.
(c) Training and Complementary Education (32 man-years)
(i)  Three man-years of a water specialist training officer to
strengthen the curriculum and activities of NIGELEC's training
center and of the health schools; and 4 man-years of additional
overseas training for accounting, financial and technical
junior staff, together with equipment and material for the
water supply branch of NIGELEC's training center;
(ii)  about 25 man-years of scholarships for (a) educating students
and postgraduate nationals in regional African or overseas
university-level schools focussing on water supply activities;
and (b) enabling MH technical staff to complement their
engineering training in the water supply field.
(d) Investments
(i)  Construction of regional offices and workshops and supply
of related equipment and vehicles for decentralizing MH's
services;
(ii)  Reinforcement of the Niamey and Dosso water supply schemes
by upgrading of the treatment plants in Niamey, drilling
and equipment of boreholes, construction of a reservoir and
extension of the distribution network in Dosso;



- 15 -
(iii) Provision of production and domestic meters and related
equipment and construction of meter maintenance workshops for
the NIGELEC water operations;
(iv)  Provision of derricks, tow trucks and grab-buckets for
OFEDES' maintenance operations.
Project implementation is expected to start in 1983 and to be completed
by end-1985.
Project Cost
47.       The total cost of the project (net of taxes and duties from which
the project would be exempt) is estimated at US$8.2 million equivalent of
which US$7.55 million is in foreign exchange. Costs are based on December
1981 prices and include combined physical and price contingencies of 17
percent on average, derived from similar operations recently carried out in
Niger by the project implementing agencies, and consultancy contracts awarded
in Western African countries over the past year. Costs for consulting and
training services and technical assistance (about 400 man-months in total)
average $9,000 monthly including reimbursable costs such as travel and
subsistence.
Project Financing
48.       The proposed IDA credit of US$ 6.5 million equivalent would finance
the full estimated foreign exchange cost of project items with the exception
of the technical assistance component for MR; the latter would be financed by
a UNDP contribution of about US$1.05 million. UNDP has already approved
government request for financing and the project document should be signed
shortly. A condition of credit effectiveness would be that all conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the UNDP Grant have been fulfilled (Section
6.01(a), DCA). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Govern-
ment's contribution as well as the proceeds of the IDA credit for technical
assistance and equipment to NIGELEC and OFEDES amounting to totals of US$2.17
and US$1.55 respectively would be provided in the form of Government equity in
view of NIGELEC's and OFEDES's current reliance on operational subsidies and
the predominantly technical assistance character of the project. The execu-
tion of subsidiary agreements between Government and NIGELEC and OFEDES
respectively, covering Government's equity, would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (Sections 3.01(b) and 6.01(b)), DCA). In order to expedite the
preparation of the project and to help NIGELEC and OFEDES in an early overhaul
of their financial situation, the Government requested and obtained in June
1982 an advance of US$330,000 under the Project Preparation Facility to
finance the foreign exchange costs of detailed design and tender documents for
items to be implemented under the project, as well as the physical inventory
of power and water connections of the Niamey operations and the setting up of
a general accounting system in OFEDES.



- 16 -
Project Implementation
49.       An implementation chart for the project components is shown in
Annex VI. All physical works and studies as well as detailed design would
be executed under the responsibility of MH with the assistance of consultants
and the participation of NIGELEC for works in centers under the latter's
current operations. Supply of equipment for NIGELEC and OFEDES operations
would be obtained by the respective agencies. Contracts for physical works
are expected to be let in mid 1983 after completion of detailed design
financed under the PPF. Contracts for technical assistance would be awarded
and supervised by the respective beneficiaries; terms of reference have been
discussed with the Nigeriens and reviewed by IDA and will be issued to a short
list of firms/entities with experience in water supply operations and acceptable
to the Association. It is expected that a single entity or joint venture
would be capable of providing the range of expertise required for both NIGELEC
and OFEDES.
Procurement
50.       Most of the construction works to be financed under the project
consist of scattered minor works, grouped in small contracts of less than
US$0.4 million which are unlikely to interest foreign bidders. These works
totalling US$1.7 million including contingencies would be procured through
local competitive bidding procedures which are satisfactory to the Association
and in which foreign bidders have the opportunity to participate. Supplies
for meters, pipes, trucks, derricks and pump equipment estimated at US$1.6
million including contingencies would be grouped in appropriate bidding
packages and procured through ICB. All bidding packages for works estimated
to cost more than US$250,000 equivalent as well as for goods over US$150,000
equivalent would be subject to the Association's prior review of procurement
documentation resulting in a coverage of about 80% of work contracts and about
90% of goods contracts. The balance would be subject to random post review
by the Association after contract award. Miscellaneous items of equipment
and furniture in packages less than US$50,000 and totalling US$0.5 million
approximately would be procured under local competitive bidding with quota-
tions from at least three reliable local and/or foreign suppliers. All
technical positions and consulting services under the project would be filled
or undertaken by persons with qualifications and experience and on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA.
Disbursement
51.       The proposed credit would be disbursed to cover:
(i)  100 percent of the foreign costs or 90 percent of the total costs
of consulting services and technical assistance (US$1.8 million);
(ii)  100 percent of the costs of overseas training or education
assignments (US$0.5 million);



- 17 -
(iii)  100 percent of the foreign costs or 90 percent of the total costs of
supply of equipment (US$1.6 million);
(iv)  90 percent of the net-of-taxes cost of civil works (US$1.4 million);
and
(v)  Refunding of project preparation advance (US$0.3 million).
The remaining balance of US$0.9 million would be unallocated. In view of the
special nature of this engineering and rehabilitation project the estimated
disbursements indicated in the summary are not derived from existing profiles
but from other similar projects.
Project Benefits and Risks
52.       Existing institutional weaknesses in the sector prevent achievement
of the fullest operational efficiency and optimal utilization of the funds
available for development. To address some of these weaknesses as quickly
and as economically as possible, the project will, through technical assis-
tance, by training and by supply of equipment, help restructure and strengthen
the institutions, assist MH to fulfill more effectively its task of sector
planning and organization of construction, and allow the sector agencies to
carry out their operating functions more productively. It will also promote
more efficient use of a scarce commodity, by measures to upgrade water produc-
tion, reduce waste and leakage, and trace unregistered consumers. Finally, it
will finance a small priority package of construction, as well as preparatory
documentation and design for a larger program of works. These benefits are
largely intangible and unquantifiable, but will nevertheless help substantially
in creating a viable framework for long-term sector development.
53.       While, potential risks exist with regard to timely implementation of
the proposed restructuring of sector institutions, appropriate covenants and
measures have been provided to minimize such risks. Terms of reference for
the sector restructuring studies and for experts provided under technical
assistance have been agreed with the Association. The Government and sector
agencies are keenly interested in the project and have taken appropriate
action for its prompt implementation.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between Republic of Niger
and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association, are
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
55.       In addition to the features of the Development Credit Agreement
which are referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III,
conditions of credit effectiveness would be: (a) fulfillment of conditions



- 18 -
precedent to the effectiveness of the UNDP grant, and (b) conclusion of
subsidiary agreements between Government and OFEDES and NIGELEG, respectively,
covering Government's equity contribution.
56.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
TART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington D. C.
November 15, 1982



- 19 -                                                   ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
NIGER - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NIGER                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV AGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            1267.0                                       MOST RECENT             LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      129.6                   1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                       140.0        170.0      330.0                  250.8                   1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)             5.2         24.0       45.9                  66.5                     610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)        2876.0       4008.0    5318.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)        5.8          8.4       12.5                   17.8                     28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                              10.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                                33.7
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                        2130
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. EM.                              2.3          3.2        4.1                   27.7                     54.7
PER SQ. RM. AGRICULTURAL LAND           22.6         30.8       39.8                  86.7                     129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                               44.8         46.3       46.9                  44.8                      46.0
15-64 YRS.                               52.7         51.1       50.6                  52.3                      51.1
65 YkS. AND ABOVE                         2.6          2.6        2.5                    2.9                      2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                    2.3          3.3        2.8                    2.7                      2.8
URBAN                                    4.1          7.0        6.8                    6.2                      5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)           51.9         50.7       51.6                   47.3                     47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)           26.8         23.8       21.6                   19.5                     15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                    3.5          3.5        3.5                    3.2                      3.2
PAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)          ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)               112.0         96.0       95.0                  8S.7                      90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                        101.1         89.1      91.0/c                 90.2                     93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)                65.4         57.2       63.51c                 53.1                     54.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE             20.2         18.9      26.87T                 18.4                      17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY BATE           44.7         38.8       31.4                   26.7                     23.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)          37.2         40.5       43.2                   45.6                     51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                191.2        171.3      145.7                  129.9                    118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                     ..         20.0       27.0/d                23.9
URBAN                                     ..         37.0       38.07E                 54.9
RURAL                                     ..         19.0       26.07d                18.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POP'JLATION)
TOTAL                                     ..          1.0        3.0/d                25.8
URBAN                                     ..         10.0       36.07e                 63.1
RURAL                                     ..           ..        3.O7;                 20.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               82171.4      58087.0   42719.3/c              32097.3                   14185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           8464.7/f    7019.3    2377.97i                 3264.6                   2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 2207.2       2220.5    1391.4/e               1225.0                    1036.4
URBAN                                     ..        358.6     407.07i                249.5                     430.8
RURAL                                             4230.4    1958.47/                 1712.1                   3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               10.4/g       34.7/h
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                     ..           ..
URBAN                                     ..           ..
RURAL                                     ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                     ..           ..
URBAN                                     ..           ..
RURAL                                     ..           ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OP DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                     ..           ..         ..
URBAN                                     ..           ..         ..
RURAL                                     ..           ..         ..



- 20 -                                                          ANNEX 1
Page 2 of S
TABLE 3A
NICER71SOIL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NIMER                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV5RAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
DJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                   5.0         14.0      23.0                   63.2                    83.3
MALE                   7.0         18.0       29.0                  72.7                     96.1
FEMALE                 3.0          9.0       17.0                  50.3                     80.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   0.3          1.0       4.0                   10.2                    15.3
MALE                   0.5          2.0        5.0                  13.2                     19.4
FEMALE                 0.1          1.0        2.0                   6.6                     11.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   4.3            2.7        1.5                   7.9                      4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             43.0/f       38.9      41.0/c                 47.4                    38.6
SECONDARY                           17.0         20.2      23.07                  26.2                    23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          1.4/f         ..        5.2                  34.0                     35.6
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.3          1.4       2.1/e                  3.0                    31.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.3        36.2       38.7                   34.8                    71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                                                  0.1                    1.7                    17.9
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    0.3          0.5       0.6/c                  2.9                    19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            0.2        ..                    1.1                     0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        946.0       1276.1    1652.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     9.0          9.7      10.1                   34.1                    36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               95.0         93.0      91.0                   78.4                    56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   1.0          2.0       3.0                    9.2                    17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 32.9         31.8       31.1                  41.4                     37.0
MALE                                  60.2         58.1       56.5                  53.9                     46.9
FEMALE                                 5.9          6.1        6.2                  29.1                     27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4          1.5        1.6                   1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 *-           *'     133.0/c                134.3                   507.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..      63.07-                 82.9                   200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     133.0/d                 96.4                   523.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..      53.d7c                 60.4                   203.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..                   39.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..      35.0/d                 69.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977;  /d 1975;  /e 1976;  /f 1962;  /g 1964;  /h 1966.
May, 1982



- 21-                                                                                                     Annex 1
Si    flNIholNeS                                                            ~~Page   3  of  5
Notes:  Although the data nor drum   tom  souce  generlly judged rho  act asthritate and reliable, if should also be noted obat obey  ay no: ho iste-
nain bl csorhe boca-- If tbe ha-, of a-adediard dofinitiona  sod .nonepte  -nd by diffte-t netnafoieh ca11etlog the d-ra.  The dnt. ore,an
lbele-n, useful to describe orders of -Mait-de. Indicate  trends, and rhor-cerise cetain mate diffeteas betn                       cutre
Therftnegc              r  (I, tin sorcnoy group of,:1in  nuetrc  country and (dn  o..nucY grony wih somewhat high.,  cong  inrom   hec  tho country groop
of tic   ubjoctroorcyfuoccy  for   'igihrrn    ni  Eopo--r" group shor  'ffiddlo tocon  Noeth Afric- end Mitddle loot" Is chosnicoe  iaron
aoca-olnaai  tfotuis)   In tho reeenoc   troo-p data thn oungn   r  populati_ooihe -              tuheicman  fr  ah ldicato  anl               sou   ol Bwe
maoiyo   ho co.o. c t oi a~ grou.p has darn for" tho  indcrr.r  tie roe-age of cc-otrieo o-o  tie indicorota dopod  on th   aviabltyefue
an  t  nt  utur,  auicgos hr -orry ford i   ooiga erae                 oeindicato.r to anoter.  These a_veeno  ar  oily u_etul In conpoiog tie na                  Ifa
_AiiA (tho..so.l uq,.is)                                                                            Ppltopr   ein               ed - totl   ro,ndorl-Pplto    ttl
total - 70101 suafucoarts cugerlnlog loud  cro nod h,laag outru; 1979 dais.      orl ,antrl  divided hy their respect irenubero  hsialbd
boeroluru- ioterno   ognruor          --onu-ed toepo-rtyo,        ne ntly. _,i artlhe ybliirryiot    enrlodynalsdosia   odn
far crPs, Pas1tues, narkr  sod kinchce gardnn  or to lIe fal0,  09  na                          -bbihstnceor.gopti   r  rs.lobot   p hrnweoly, stffd'
GK%P     APITA 'U,",                                                     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~by at lnssrtass_hysicia.  intnblihebest  pheoilgpncaly aso
calned  y non r  -oc  aln   ehod asi-ld   niAls19-sbaoI 19                  6g.               nod mdii     lcnosno   eennl  stofiedb      bynirjheb 
19sf, and 19Sf dccc.                                                       me~~~~~dical assitant      ,idwifo. etc.) ouc~h offer in-pntlr- cot
datlon nod proride oimtd _sgn of medical ta_llitIo.   PoF sa-               n
lENSiT CONlSt0TieN Pit CAITA-aolcosstn ofrmrcueney(alicloe ores urbanhsini.sld  WHO.i  hscia(gooo                                                                             .pwitals,
ond  ignte,  rnrlrcs, lntuagaenhdo-roetndeteml olen-"an  rura  hosPitals, local or earn  bupitls and    Inn  and sareeity
tricity) he kilograr te  coal oqlo rprtyt;167   91   n   99cees   Spetsie    optl  or_nide   eyuderi aI
POPULTIONi dA'D VITAL. STATISrICS
etonlP_   lto,MdYs   Atnn~d) - ho  t Jaly 1; 1960, 1970. and 180                              HOUIf NGifi
yrbao Poyolti-  yrno  ot t l    R- nan   tf o-b-rn to tal pupolantj_;                              A' icasbul   nsoso       rn   tidolo                  h   br   itg         atr
di _neu   dfi-toioc   of arborars  sa   fri         erihlt'y of dot-n  Ibho1 main eas   Ahare  or lafdgn  sysomy odh-rtoodi
a_ogtootr. I ;19t0, 1971,. or191das                                                               rho thossbol  fo   initclops
Po    P'ro   Pryufo                                                                          nrANohor    : nfrronrerden -tordal. bc  u                         ber   I noagnn
_o i_onloonlt  -lrrn   yylst-    poncionte  oeda  1Ihs ..fdprsoo   er  ccohoalloon  nsdrool  tooie    cinnin l
ttlpayslanIoc byug  and  -ean  their mrsity  ad frity aesdwlng,nncinly   . I. 3elnt ldo  on-1eaon-np                                                              oisesso
Prt)eltno   p         Iam tr  for   aro- tyJans  cnrs   Onrrlvel  a_I_ nctplod Pares.
notrafo  fertilitY natr ulo- bao tbhnlere1-1   -Poolg   ettn   i                           ofntl   ro.  n   ua    wlivn ptlry
fath  oonto hethecasnirod ae ofties  nin  co_inngo   oflil jmarfatiry                         b-ittatltnn
ardlntilt   oostnpojtlnproni                                                                dutdenclatfot
Itooncpplain    raaaiohypyltonreei   ognwbsnePlar   nol-tta,ml  s   eai-no    cn-    aradfml
thoh lriotoicuott           boddushPto,   i.   . adlobi-gcsructrrrf                       K~CTnrlmnoslgotbpioyeriafrnt5oorsos
Irrircur 200, and tho rte o d- chi-no ofd teiit-       rt t oh rplcn                   leccodoysbcl-ta,na adisoe-Cptdsboesude
thcn lrool.eodc_t hieqvdran-lastffs  poen  f opeoey  rimry  ast_rtao
Perso  a. -Pt-ysrpopltno  Oa  soar i-oeto  20  hocnros)of                                oconano enrolmdjedo f  dprrinf at  1ero gdahy  -f Votoi_sl, iaio
Perao  i.-  200lorl  och-                                                                          ..otdooboo   uragncitohlloa  etl  o  asdeormein  f -ecsdry,oaletine
ony-Os   00ad 197hdta                                                              Popil-ttenyobor. lplI.  ratio  - priary  an    b...odsrh.  Tfotol soeu noldI
-illoto   bron  --hto (prqc    oa      cca   rehrnoa   orlod                                    spreng    ofnto  adult popoYlunlos- agod.- 1   ean  ndouot
ren 9opblC. fu-970 -by  19579   . ad   970ti
Ocodo01cmnatolyceciounog)    aunol len   inspnno ndo   t-orcn  seating  len  thned-ight  perons  Poltlo  omuls- s.herss  n
"Yplan';   9705   ld9ei 7 ad 98   os.tfOoy  ei.s
rdtl- nhlue(errosod; lc6tossl-' detsyttouado-h-yeIai;echoa(e                                                                thos d pnpstlby - Altpsrfrcies  o   ai
pptio; i,1970, Iad    htdt.bodat   ogsrlpbi  pe  touantoepyo Iron   rloes  n
I.,icrdotonot-craoobtoasoroseoIosloah                                                               iciodttrresltoonisoioyoro....itatacfot
ilIy   ao;  soly2c-year avrae    19rdi8g to  Ob,l97. odl9f.                                         os  cduris   doubd  icnsng
ya  ti- G_ elone  - aco -ntors.  -uulIn nAs)-                                                                         -tulrse  a   corr  y   eieo  1mtnnr popotaPioc)  - 1 g9 neeseo  far irodntt
0rirhrorlurco    re   aycnc  onas_6lyyoshgpors                                            nen    nii   e   iuodppuoio   n  ae   elIondT   rerr
1dto ... Plaurh9nUner 960yr70ut-n tarrIed. ooac 9-t PoecuneIf  mnled .-                       COSLWIn nONrnadi   er   hnegnrte    ti   eonsi   fet
mamac  f chil-bocohg age  li-i  Iyearn  who lh pto hlrt -c -dir f deoyc .. to       twircCrcita   rnthosdprlthn       hw    aaeaent
all sociod  0000  n nam  ago goup.                               ulatln of  daily  e~cco  lsieeataespaprc. delmcd acent rdi'a
1960'                                                                              Ran-'ind~~~~~~~~~~uliato dveo prmr ye ecri1grrlawn  tnrrieo
yip .nfp  lTiyly  1tobe  doiy"  t i  opeGrod-nsn  foe tme  a .I seek.
Ooro fo   ndocn   erlptd(99Ptlff-  se   f  c   ait   nua                                          tea nulAtedne             ta apt   o  ia-oedo   h  otno
yrd-enf   o  al  fon   Aamonittlos.   r         Ioucno  oun -odooodadfedndtIfi   oddrlgiomr  londstygodvohiostodrlet-i  t                                                   ds
h.in   - to caroda  yo   busho.    Ifmadhinsnnn  y.mapgudn(.g ofrcn                              sdmatl   nis
Inoiod  f sgar  whch  rn  dlio nO    -nsaanutlets  o. . cffe  an
Imc da . Aolionylc   op odcai  podnior, upur-o losoT no c.......                                              t  1960, 197  en-190 dts
qoctItls  sc  I   oo  yocnlc,  ndisas io lt -tlbiio    isr-                          giclurfdntrt --l         labr fnc  haI farming  f          thnr,   -ari    n
an -r lTcfoconoN        usacu,odulnngh   ocn   orobea                                          n ljeric-ye stin no   onasprcrnu  of tona  hobcr facto
co-d-tyd       -1f-    e 8j~-                                                                  Cie gi-b.170an   97   on.19 - 197  ad  90kdna
con nnp1r offood ~r 905.iOn  nPyled1fc   sdfuo   naoo                o                              Acloteootreodngond  Os total  sle,adfi      l   ao    arn
noirmenn  Proallcoanrinoosnibo  byll   rodofcmnos                                       eonue  o   na,sl                 andioal  pouato  ofd cr1 egos        l ropctte
Ocel -eun  Puro -e; lOuu,   97  sodi1975 data.                      uI.ch~R oicto    aorfr
rino  Opt  nolsalsaudpoloo hogroi  perday I1 1961_1-il, 19i     _ 15  dat.         uf dn     fYtINT
Chid  sir  14)  oot nncfpc  nnuond --Pl-~ :  bureso  oIboprIotnu                          rrrtn   ftmt -acomy  (lath in  obadio)-Roeodb   tb
at(_   b;190t 100_      n  19Sf data,jN                                                          and97o0 b           Infdpr19dej       0 cosderole   sti
rf ateoar oousur  (roeturns    ISh  107_ nod  d9i0t don.tAsl                                       osi  ise"' levebl Isthr- oce  lorn  brnewtcfo.1                  s
icrntoaf  nnn  pecet  i oohrma)-  onl uha, odrsa  -Sa-               ufiioahy   denoedis  lu  esensira-fodrenneeae obo
bcr of peop1o fco Yal - o bun, an  rr)wihose racononfeAffordable
neesabeacewonl  ipl  tntth  heowie r9emer ofdshe9emari-d                                  so   mleal-tPerres  ofe paodte g-        bo  end toa)wh rel          ssl
do nor  oer le  iond a  isyroporionarepunt aitheP da   Is  ec Ing  rho              poor"80?te
Oub eern   eplt      ttl.abn m-- bleed rasi  served by,d oncosadeisp_s  asit
of niour respective pepsisnious.  innerts disposalI may l hotiods" .
earl             I.acta-.atee  by 5ste-b -n eyt ,ao   the Ice-i of d 2s peiie  and simi-h                                                              "          i
sariedf-Pnoginseidns.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - NIGER
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1980: US$330
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980                                                                    ACTUAL RATE OF GROW13 (%, CONSTANT 1972 PRICES)
Us$ Million         2                                            1972-80
GNP at Market Prices                                 1,806.9         100.0                                             3.0
Gross Domestic Investment                              553.7         30.6                                              7.3
Gross National Savings                                 297.3          16.5
Current Account Balance                               -258.8         14.3
Exporta of Goods. NFS                                  660.2         36.5                                              5.8
Imports of Goods, NFS                                  927.1         51.3                                              6.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980
Value Added (Factor Costs)
US$ million            2
Agriculture                                            626.6              33.1
Mining  1/                                             334.1              17.6
Industry                                               313.2              16.5
Services  2/                                           620.1              32.8
TOTAL                                             1,894.0             100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government
(CFAF billion)                              i of GDP
1974/1975               1979/1980              1975           1980
Current Revenues                                     22.4                    74.7                13.4           18.7
of which uranium revenue                          ( 2.5)                   17.5                (1.5)          (4.4)
Current Expenditures                                 17.5                    48.3                10.5           12.1
Current Balance                                       4.9                    26.4                 2.9            6.6
Capital Expenditure                                   1.9                    28.1                 1.1            7.0
External Assistance
Overall Balance                                      +3.0                    -1.7                 1.8           +0.4
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
(CFAF billiou at end of year)
Money and Quasi Money                    12.1    12.9    15.5    20.3    22.3    29.2    37.2    54.2    64.7    77.9
Bank credit to Public Sector             -2.3    -3.5    -3.4    -7.2   -11.5   -12.3   -16.4   -11.9   -18.1    -7.5
Bank credit to Private Sector             9.7    10.7    12.5    21.0    28.5    28.6    32.7   54.2    75.5    89.4
PERCENTAGES OR INDEX NUMBERS
General Price Index (1970 - 100)         104.2   114.4   127.8   132.1   144.1   178.1   219.2  241.6   259.2   285.9
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index'                       .        9.8    11.7     3.4      9.1    23.6    23.0    10.2      7.3    10.3
Bank credit to Public Sector
Bank credit to Private sector              .       10.3    16.8    68.0    35.7      0.4    14.3    65.7    37.5    18.4
** Staff estilates
Not applicable
September 22, 1982
1/ Mostly uranium mining
2/ Including Government and duties and taxes on imports.



Annex I
COUNTRY DATA - NIGER                                                         Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
(in millions of current US$)
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                      1975*        1980 *                         MERCHANDISE EXPORTS : (Annual Average: 1977-80)
Exports of Goods, NFS                   167.8        660.2                                                                   US$ Million          %
Imports of Goods, NFS                   226.5        927.1
Resource Gap (deficit   -)              -58.7       -266.9                           Livestock                                  55.8             14.2
Uranium                                   301.4            76.7
Interest Payments (net)                 -10.7        -55.0                           All other                                  35.9              9.1
Workers' Remittances                    -18.7        -35.5                              TOTAL                                  393.1            100.0
Other Factor Payments (net)               3.0          -
Net Transfers                            77.1         99.4                           EXTERNAL DEBT  DECEMBER 31  1981
Balance on Current Accounts               8.0       -258.8
Public Debt, including guaranteed         605.3
Direct Foreign Investment (net)          15.8          -                             Non-Guaranteed Private Debt               142.0
Net MLT Borrowings                       17.0        190.3                           Total outstanding and disbursed           747.3
Disbursements                       (18.8)        (-)
Repayment                           ( 1.8)        (-)                            DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981
Other Items 1/                          -19.8          -                             Public Debt, including guaranteed           12
Change in Reserves (end year)             5.0         -9.0                           Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                10
Foreign Reserves (end year)              51.4        134.4                           Total outstanding and disbursed            22
Fuel and Related Materials                             -
IBRD/IDA LENDING, December 31, 1981
% of imports                         12.8          8.2
Outstanding and disbursed                  78.6
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                     Undisbursed                                 79.5
Outstanding including undisbursed         158.1
1971 :     US$1.00 = CFAF 277.03
1972 :     US$1.00 = CFAF 252.21
1973 :     US$1.00 = CFAF 222.70
1974 :     US$1.00 = CFAF 240.50
1975 :     US$1.00 = CFAF 214.32
1976 :     US$1.00 = CFAF 245.00
1977       US$1.00 = CFAF 245.00
1978 :     US$1.00 = CFAF 220.00
1979 :     US$1.00 = CFAF 212.72
1980 :     US$1.00 = CFAF 211.30
1/  Including errors and commissions.                                                                                                          September 22, 1982
*   Staff estimates



- 24 -                       ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5 pages
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGER
A.   STATEMENT OF 1DA CREDITS (as at September 30, 1982)
Borrower: Republic of Niger
US$ million
Credit                                           Amount (less cancellation) 1/
Number   Year           Purpose                       IDA       Undisbursed
Nine credits fully disbursed                          35.9
441     1973       Drought Relief                     2.0          0.2
612     1976       Niger Third Highway               15.6          1.4
800     1978       Forestry Project                   4.5          0.0 2/
809     1978       Employment Creation
Project                         5.0          0.6
851     1978       Irrigation                        15.0          3.0
885     1979       Livestock                         12.0          8.5
886     1979       Feeder Roads                      10.0          4.2
967     1979       Dosso Agricultural
Development                    20.0         19.2
1026     1980       Second Maradi Rural
Development                    16.7         14.3
1151     1981       Education                         21.5         20.8
1225 3/  1982       Industrial Development            16.0         16.0
1226     1982       Forestry                          10.1         10.1
Total                                      184.3         98.3
of which has been repaid                   0.6
Total now outstanding and held by IDA   183.7
Total undisbursed                                        98.3
1/   Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/   Balance as of 9/30/82 is $916.81 and being disbursed.
3/   Not yet effective.



- 25 -                       ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1982 1/
Credit 612      Third Highway Project; US$15.6 million; Credit of
March 5, 1976; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1977;
Closing Date: December 30, 1981 extended to June 30,
1983
This project included: (a) a four-year program of periodic mainten-
ance, including procurement of equipment and training of specialized public
work staff, (b) construction and improvement of the Zinder-Nigerian border
road (113 km) and of the Maradi-Nigerian border road (40 km) and (c) con-
sulting services for supervision of road construction and a survey of the
domestic construction industry. Construction of the Maradi-Nigerian border
road was completed ahead of schedule and the Zinder-Nigerian border road was
completed on time. A study of the domestic construction industry has been
completed as have studies to prepare a proposed Highway IV project.
Credit 809      Industrial and Artisan Sector Employment Creation Project;
US$5.0 million; Credit of June 7, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
February 7, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This project aims at assisting Government in the promotion of more
labor intensive,employment creation in Niger's industrial and artisan sectors
while strengthening the sector's institutional infrastructure, by providing
a line of credit, training and technical assistance to BDRN, including the
development of a bank management training program of the Ecole Nationale
d.Administration, financial and technical assistance for creation of OPEN,
the new agency created under the project to provide technical assistance
and training for local enterpreneurs, and by assisting the Artisans Center
to improve the productivity and employment of artisans affiliated with the
Center. Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily.
Credit 851      Irrigation Project; US$15.0 Million; Credit of February 15,
1979; Effectiveness Date: October 12, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30,1983
The project aims to assist the Government in expanding cereal and
vegetable production along the Niger River through development of a 1,550 ha
polder; providing agricultural development services on neighbouring irrigation
schemes (1,215 ha) and dryland farming plots (9,000 ha); and in creating the
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report problems
which are being encountered, and the action taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



- 26 -                         ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5 pages
necessary institutional framework for the implementation of its irrigation
development program through establishment of a national agency (ONAHA) which
would integrate and strengthen the activities of construction and management
of the irrigation schemes. The project will also finance the preparation of a
feasibility study for a nearby polder, as well as the services of a financial
coordinator to be attached to the Ministry of Rural Development to assist in
accounting and financial management of the various IDA-financed agricultural
projects in Niger. Due to initial delays in credit signing and in the award
of contracts for equipment and engineering services, construction of the
irrigation works started in March 1980. The construction of the first 230
ha was completed in August 1981 and they are presently under irrigation. An
additional 900 ha is under completion.
Credit 885     Livestock Project; US$12.0 Million; Credit of April 27,
1979; Effectiveness Date: October 12, 1979; Closing
Date: March 31, 1985
A combination of health and productivity services is being made
available to herd owners in the pastoral and cropping zones. An innovative
approach is being launched by establishing Associations of Pastoralists,
legally recognized cooperative entities based on existing social groups.
Members of these Associations will have access to a greater range of health
services, new forms of credit for backgrounding and breeding, improvements to
existing wells and extension of watering points and advice on range management.
The project is also providing assistance to the Livestock Department to
improve competence in delivery of productivity services. Project implementa-
tion proceeds satisfactorily, particularly in drug distribution for which a
self-financing network of 190 paraveterinary works has been set up.
Credit 886      Feeder Road Project; US$10 Million; Credit of April 27,
1979; Effectiveness Date: December 10, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
The project will improve 1,000 km of feeder roads which support
Government's agricultural program and create an appropriate structure for the
execution of comprehensive feeder road programs. The project has financed
highway construction equipment and spare parts; labor, materials and supplies
for the improvement program; offices for and technical assistance to the newly
created Feeder Road Technical Section to aid in implementing and monitoring
the improvement program and in training technicians, mechanics, equipment
operators and training officers. Equipment procurement and about 420 km of
road are complete. Following an intervention by the President of Niger
construction standards have been raised' and the construction target lowered
from 1,000 kms to about 800 kms.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5 pages
Credit 967      Dosso Agricultural Development Project;
US$20.0 Million; Credit of June 12, 1980;
Effectiveness Date: February 25, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project comprises a five-year program intended to increase farm
incomes and improve the welfare and standard of living of the rural population
of Dosso Province and to build up an extension service through: the introduc-
tion of improved farming practices for rainfed cereals, cowpeas and ground-
nuts; the improvement of vaccination coverage, delivery of drugs and feed
supplements and animal husbandry practices for beef cattle and work oxen; the
construction of small-scale irrigation schemes for 200 ha of bottomlands; the
introduction of a Training and Visit extension system; the strengthening of
the farm input and implement supply system; and applied research. Training,
extension, input supply and credit services would be made accessible to about
80,000 farm families, of whom 25,000 are expected to adopt the recommended
improved practices. In spite of one year delay in start up period input
distribution targets have been met both in agriculture and livestock. Organi-
zational conflicts between project management and executing agencies may still
frustrate these results for the next campaign.
Credit 1026    Second Maradi Rural Development Project; US$16.7 Million;
Credit of June 6, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
February 26, 1981; Closing Date: December 31 , 1985
The project follows up on the First Maradi Project. It includes
the expansion of improved agricultural practices in rainfed farming areas;
training of extension staff, young farmers and blacksmiths; agricultural
credit; development of irrigation potential in Maradi; applied agricultural
research; seed multiplication; functional literacy and health proposals.
Some cost overruns are anticipated on the land development component as a
result of omissions and underestimations.
Credit 1151    Education Project; SDR 17.3 Million; Credit of June 19,
1981; Effectiveness Date: June 30, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1987
The project comprises a five-year program to improve educational
planning and the preparation of education projects, planning for civil service
upgrading and the training of rural development workers. It includes (a) tech-
nical assistance and fellowships to assist in educational planning and project
preparation; (b) technical assistance to the Ministry of Civil Service and
Labor to establish a training directorate, review the needs for upgrading and
formulate pilot upgrading programs for the public administration; (c) the
final phase of expansion and upgrading of an agricultural technician training
institute at Kolo; (d) the development of a new animal production training
school at Kolo; and (e) technical assistance and operating costs for project
management.



- 28 -                       ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5 pages
Credit 1225    Industrial Development Project; SDR 14 Million
Credit of April 20, 1982; Effectiveness Date: December 31,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1987
The project supports the diversification of the economy beyond
agriculture and mining, and consists of: (i) a US$12 million line of credit
to BDRN to finance productive small and medium scale investments; (ii) tech-
nical assistance to strengthen BDRN, OPEN and CMAN, three institutions dealing
with the financing, promotion and training of Nigerien entrepreneurs; and
(iii) modest capital assistance to OPEN.
Credit 1226    Second Forestry Project; SDR 8.8 Million; Credit of
April 20, 1982; Effectiveness Date: October 4, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
The project consists of: (i) improving supplies of fuelwood,
building poles tree fodder and other minor forest products for the rural
and urban population with special emphasis on a considerably expanded rural
participation in afforestation; and (ii) a continuation of the education
and training process started under the first project, through reinforcing
the Forestry Department, helping the Government develop a better forestry
policy and testing different approaches to forestry development in Niger in
particular and the Sahel in general. The project became effective on
October 4, 1982.



- 29 -                          ANNEX III
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
FIRST WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Timetable of Key Events
Section I
(a)  Project first presented to IDA       : March 1981
(b)  Agencies which prepared the Project:  MH/NIGELEC/OFEDES/IDA
(c)  Time taken to prepare the Project  : Eight months
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission       : November, 1981
(e)  Completion of negotiations           : October, 1982
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness        : March, 1983
Special IDA Implementation Actions
Section II
None
Special Conditions
Section III
The following special conditions are incorporated in the draft
Development Credit Agreement:
(a)  Government to take steps in consultation with IDA to improve the
institutional structure of the sector, initially by causing NIGELEC
to strengthen its Water Department and by implementing agreed
recommendations of the sector study, (para. 33);
(b)  Government to adjust gradually water tariffs in consultation with
IDA so that revenues cover fully the operating costs of piped water
systems run by NIGELEC and OFEDES and meanwhile meet the operating
deficits (para 36);
(c)  Government to implement a water tariff adjustment resulting
in an increase of revenues of not less than 20% (para. 36);
(d)  Government to meet maintenance costs of wells and boreholes insofar
as not reimbursed to OFEDES by district councils or by users
(para. 36);



- 30 -                           ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) Government to liquidate existing arrears due to NIGELEC by Govern-
ment agencies in accordance with a plan acceptable to IDA to be
submited by March 1, 1983, and pay subsequent charges within four
months of billing (para. 38);
(f) Conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the UNDP Grant to be
fulfilled (condition of effectiveness, para. 48); and
(g) Execution of subsidiary agreements between Government and NIGELEC
and OFEDES, respectively (condition of effectiveness, para. 48).



-31 -                       ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 4
NIGER WATER SUPPLY CREDIT
NIGELEC
Water Supply Statistics & Income Statements 1977-80
Calendar Year                                              1977        1978         1979        1980
OPERATING STATIS=ICS
No. of Water Consumers                                   10,508      12,549       15,120      18,447
Water Produced (m3'000)                                   9,995      10,995       14,173      15,761
Water Purchased (m3'000)                                    192         261          216         276
Total Supply                                         10,187       11,256       14,389      16,037
Water Sales (m3'000):-
Administratiion                                        2,529       3,965        3,257       2,919
Private                                                5,460       4,766        5,196       8,310
Standpipes                                               745         709          860         884
Power Station use                                         54          66           66          96
8,788       9,506        9,379      12,209
Unbilled at Year-end (Variation)                            -         - 444         1-372        -
Over est. 1978 (corrected 1979)                             -        -1,345          -           -
i Adjusted Sales                                         8,788       7,717        9,751      12,209
Unaccounted for Water (% of Supply)                          14          31           32           24
Average Rate (CFAF/m3)                                       65.7        64            65.6        69
WATER SUPPLY INCOME STATEMENTS
Revenues                                                 - - - - - - - - CFAF Million - - - - - -
Water Sales L/                                            546         512          542         852
Unbilled Consumption at Year-end                           31        (-24)          23        (-50)
(Variation)
Rechargeable Works (Connections etc.)                     148         292          298         432
Meter Rents & Misc.                                        20          17           21          33
Withdrawn from Renewals Fund 2]                             1          15           -          170
746         812          884       1,437
Expenditure
Fuel, Power, Materials                                    326         341          405         799
Transport & Other Services                                 90         208          352         433
Personnel                                                 176         138          207         256
Taxes & Misc.                                              32          44           43          56
Renewals Conts & Bad Debts Provision                       88         105          136         258
Management's Remuneration                                  67          85          128         119
Interest                                                   -           -            -            4
779         921        1,271       1,925
Less Recharges to Capital etc.                             36           9           36          10
743         912        1,235       1,915
Operating Surplus (Loss) before
subsidy                                                   3        (100)        (351)       (478)
Subsidy                                                    79          10           -           -
Surplus (Loss) after Subsidy                               82         (90)        (351)       (478)
1/ After adjustments (sometimes substantial) for over estimates in previous year
to cover computer billing backlogs.
2/ These adjustments are shown as current revenue in NIGELEC's accounts, but in reality
do not affect the operating result. To this extent, surpluses (losses) are over
(under) -stated.



ANNEX IV
- 32 -                      Page 2 of 4
NIGER WATER SUPPLY CREDIT
NIGELEC
Water Supply Funds Flow Statements & Balance Sheets 1977-80
Calendar Year                              1977 1/        1978         1979       1980
FUNDS FLOW STATEMENT                       - - - -           CFAF Million - - - - - -
Resources
Surplus (loss) for Year                             (90)          (351)     (478)
Add Renewals etc. Provisions (net)                   90            136         50
Contributions to Capital Outlay:
State & Municipal                              26             7      4,112
Consumers                                     333           279        398
NIGELEC                                        20            -           3
Consumer Deposits                                     8             10         13
387            81      4,098
Applications
Capital Outlay                                      506           446      4,633
Increase in Stocks                                   40           118        109
Increase (Decrease) in Debtors Less
Creditors 2/               161              3      (36)
707           567     4,706
Deficit 8 Increase in Debt due to
NIGELEC (Power) 3/                                  320            486        608
BALANCE SHEET
Assets
Fixed Assets (Gross)                  2,565       3,071         3,516      8,149
Stocks                                   72         112           231        340
Accounts Receivable:
Consumers (Private)                275         368           308        485
Consumers (Admin.)                  97         177           155        214
Government 2/                       -           -             -         320
Other & Accrued Items               32           9            87         -
3,041       3,737         4,297      9,50
Equity & Liabilities
Initial Capital Contribution          246         246           246        246
Contributions to Capital Outlay:
State & Municipal               1,000        1,026         1,033      5,145
Consumers                          673       1,006         1,285      1,683
Other                                8           28           28         31
Renewals Funds                        663          744          859        943
Surplus (Loss) for Year                82          (90)        (351)      (478)
Consumers Deposits                     31           39           49         62
Accounts Payable:
Governments 2/                     38          120           31         -
NIGELEC 3/                        186          506          992      1,600
Other & Accrued Items             114          112          125        276
3,041        3,737        4,297      9,508
1/ Funds Flow 1977 not available.
2/ Including previous years' surplus or loss transferred to Government's account,
as proprietor.
3/ Equivalent, from water operation viewpoint, to a Bank Overdraft.



ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 4
NIGER WATER SUPPLY CREDIT
NIGELEC
Salient Features of Electricity Operations 1977-80
STATISTICS                                             1977          1978         1979        1980
Production (million kWh)                          25,167       45,157       39,708      38,229
Purchased Electricity (million kWh)               60,226       56,018       78,482    111,384
Less Station Use (million kWh)                    (1,064)      (1,366)         N/A        N/A
= Supply to Network (million kWh)                 84,429       99,809      118,190    149,613
Sales (million kWh)                               80,741       81,755       90,853    129,758
Losses as % of Supply                               4%           18%           23%        13%
Number of Consumers                               20,647       25,012       28,069      33,264
Average Charge (CFAF/kWh)                           28           30.5          28.4       32.6
SUMMARY INCOME STATEMENT
Revenues
Electricity Sales                               2,262        2,495        2,581       4,226
Rechargeable Works                                379          525          745       1,300
Management Fee (Water Supply)                      67           85          128         119
Other Revenues                                    311          331          425         498
3,019        3,436                    6,143
EXPENSES
Gas-oil                                           479          894          892       1,192
Other Materials                                   608          758          270       1,339
Purchased Electricity                             324          297          383         470
Personnel                                         618          457          702         926
Depreciation etc. Provisions                      611          627          730         982
Interest                                           42           26          172         563
Other Charges (Less reallocations)                184          333          294         574
Income Tax                                         60           (1)          -           13
2,926        3,391        4,143       6,059
Net Surplus (Loss) after Tax                       93           45         (264)         84
SUMMARY BALANCE SHEET
Assets
Net Fixed Assets & Work in Progress             1,702        2,692        5,269       7,895
Stocks                                            835        1,221        1,592       1,787
Consumer Arrears                                1,256        1,949        1,836       3,374
Cash and Bank (net)                                58           23        (-470)   (-1,426)
Other Assets                                    2,323          768        1,328       1,813
6,174        6,653        9,555      13,443
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity and Renewal Funds                        4,477        4,760        4,594       4,980
Long Term Debt                                    626          432        2,710       5,166
Accounts Payable                                1,071        1,461        2,251       3,297
6,174        6,653        9,555      13,443



ANNEX IV
- 34 -                                     Page 4 of 4
NIGER WATER SUPPLY CREDIT
OFEDES
Available Accounting Information
(Income Statements 1977/78 and 1978/79; Balance sheet as of 9/30/79)
1977/78        1978/79
INCOME STATMENT                                   --------CFAF Million----------
Revenues
Income from Construction Contracts                                   633
Borehole Drilling                               Details              336
Minor Centers - Water Sales                        not                14
Maintenance of Wells                            available            130
Government Subsidies                                                 140
Miscellaneous                                                        _ 0
967           1,262
Expenditures
Materials and Supplies                              336              349
Personnel Expenses                                  335              462
Taxes and Miscellaneous                              87               83
Depreciation                                        141              156
899           1,050
Surplus                                                68              212
BALANCE SHEET
Assets
Fixed Assets                                                      1,472
Less Depreciation                                                    620
Net Fixed Assets                                                 852
Stocks                                                                66
Accounts Receivable                                                  202
Cash                                                                   I 1
N/A           1,121
Equity and Liabilities
Equity                                                               960
Debt                                                                  16
Accounts Payable                                                      89
Bank Overdrafts                                                       56
N/A             1,121



NIGER
First Water_ SupyPro~ject
Project Coat Estimates and
Break-down per implementing agency
Total Costs $000       # Units             MU               OFEDES          NIGELEC                            Description                               Remarks
A.  Technical Assistance              1,900     (1,100)                            8                 _       -                   I Planner + 2 Hydrogeologists                                 Earmarked for
f    (360)        17 m.y.            -                 4.5              -          3 Technicians                                                 UNiP financing
(440)                           -                 -               4.5         Commercial Officer, Water Technician
Meter Technician
B.  Consulting Services                           (270)                            -                 -              2            Inventory of Power/Water Connections                          Under PPF Request
and Studies                                                                                                                in Niamey.
(380)                           4                 -              -            Studies on Sector Restructuring.
Mlanpower requirements and feasibility
of Schemes
1,070      (120)        11 m.y.            -                 -               0.75        Audit of Accounts for 81/82 years.
Setting up of internal audit Unit
(150)                           -                 1.5             -           Setting up General & Analytical                               Partly under
Accounting System with subsequent implementation              PPF Request
(150)                           1.5                                           Preparation of details design and tender documents            Partly under
and project supervision                                       PPF Request
C.   Training and Complementary
Education                                   (100)                           5                 -               _           5 Years Complementary Overseas Training.
(200)   appr. 32 m.y.          20                 -              -            Grad. and Post-Grad. Scholarships.
800      (170)                          L.S.               -               L.S.        Supply of Training Eqt. to CMEE and Training Institutes
(250)                           1                 -               2           Water Supply Training Officers within CMEE and
Training Institutes.
80)                           -                 -               2 x 2       Accounting  And Financial Training.
Technical Training.
D.   Investments for Water Supply
(380)                           x                 -               -           Construction of 2 Regional Offices and Workshops
plus Equipment plus Vehicles.
(500)                           x                 -                           Dosso: Drilling of Boreholes, Construction
Reservoir, Extension of Distribution Network.
3,180      (800)                           x                 -                           Niamey: Upgrading of Treatment Plants
(750)                                                             x           Niamey Construction of Meter Maintenance Workshops
Supply of Meters and Related Equipment.
(750)                                             x                           Supply of Equipment for Well Maintenance
Brigades (derricks, trucks, grab-buckets, etc.)
Total Base Costs                     6.950                                 3.790             1,260             1,900
Total PPF Request $330,000
Phys + Price Contingencies           1,250                                   690               290               270
TOTAL COSTS                          8,200                                 4,480             1,550             2,170
PROPOSED FINANCING PLAN ($MILLION)
IDA                                       6.5
UNDP                                      1.05
Government of Niger                       0.65
8.2
12/23/81
Revised 3/15/82



NIGER
FIRST WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Implementation Chart
CALENDAR YEAR              1982                  1983                  1984                  1985
1   2    3    4      1   2   3        4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4
Technical Assistance
To Ministry of Hydraulics                                                              =           = _        - _                    -    - _
To Nigelec                                                                          _         - _                   -    - _
To Ofedes
Consulting Services and Studies
Inventory of Connections
Sector Restructuring and Manpower and Training Assessment                                                                                                          La
Audit Accounts and Internal Audit Set-up
Detailed Design and Supervision
Training
Graduate and Post Graduate Training
Complementary Training                                                               _   _   =           _ -        G
Secondment of Trainers at CMEE
Accounting, Financing and Technical Training
Investments
Construction of Offices and Workshops
Meter Supply
Niamey Treatment and Distribution Works
Dosso Production and Distribution Works
Well Maintenance Equipments
World Bank-23658



IBRO 16258
[K  ___                                  4                                         .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....  
'   . -   ] §  . r/ ^v m . t ;.   s J t ^;  : :  i                      \    .   L   I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B  Y  A
f                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NIGER/ 
FIRST WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
.P.M . WATER 'LPPLY STUAT OI.
U,8dr  ~F'D['~ Malu ~,t//                                                                                                     o
.. -                               /
SF  Depcrlrr.nr (n   l              q
' Depi$r:7e  Youidle ~  -_    -   \     . 
5b  l.u! o,uI For  oF1  -  -          .      .                             
-   R  >
M    A lrpo LI   A
V1C U: Ln _5:   . 2                              .5,,   
B L N N~ 7                                  Li
2v~- -- ______ --, -_o= 0ey                                                                    !          .     /
r ..    -_jA                                                             S    rt.g
1<~~~~~~ /PE                                  NI           E                A              
V U) LT A   2L
>   , BLEr] [  (                                      a .2                                                            .
____  _  . ____....... ,_ L ___I                                                                                          A    



