CUf.   = 7,
LoFFfICIAL
CREDIT NUMBER 1309 NIR
GOUENTs
Development Credit Agreement
(Water Supply Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                    /3      ,1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1309 NIR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     V"          / 3                    , 1983
between REPUBLIC OF NIGER (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   by agreement dated November 3, 1982 (hereinafter the
UNDP called Grant Agreement), UNDP has agreed to make a grant
(hereinafter called the UNDP Grant) to the Borrower in an aggre-
gate principal amount of $1.05 million to assist in fir:%ncing
part of the Project on the terms and conditions therein set
forth; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addition-
al terms have the following meanings:
(a)  "Ministry" means the Ministry of Hydraulics and Envi-
ronment of the Borrower;


﻿- 2 -
(b)  "NIGELEC" means Socifte Nigerienne d'Electricitf;
(c) "OFEDES" means Office des Eaux du Sous-Sol; and
(d)  "Project   Preparation  Advance"   means   the   project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated April 29, 1982 and
June 18, 1982 between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to six million one hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 6,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges there-
on. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Pro-
ject Preparation Advance shall thereon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1986, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing April 1, 1993 and ending October 1,
2032, each installment to and including the installment payable
on October 1, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
or cause NIGELEC and OFEDES to carry out the Project, with due


﻿-4-
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and public utility practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall provide part of the proceeds of the
Credit as well as its counterpart funds to NIGELEC and OFEDES as
a capital contribution under a subsidiary agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and NIGELEC and OFEDES respectively,
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the carry-
ing out of the Project (including design and supervision of the
construction of the facilities included in Part D of the Proj-
ect), the Borrower shall employ or cause NIGELEC and OFEDES to
employ, consultants and experts whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Association, such consultants and experts to be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Execut-
ing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower or replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services financ-
ed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for
the purposes of the Project.
Sectio, 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project


﻿-5-
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from Lt, the expen.-
diture of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, .orks or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of


﻿-6-
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the Ministry to:
(a) establish and maintain separate accounts on its records
to be used exclusively for the Project and to register in such
accounts all its receipts and payments for and in connection with
the carrying out of the Project, in accordance with appropriate
accounting principles and procedures consistently applied; and
(b) (i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
above for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistenly applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Borrower and the Association, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of the Ministry's
fiscal year, (A) certified copies of such accounts for such year
as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning such accounts of the Ministry and
the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time rea-
sonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause NIGELEC and
OFEDES to establish and maintain separate accounts on their
records to be used exclusively for the Project and to register in
such accounts all their receipts and payments for and in
connection with the carrying out of the Project, in accordance
with    appropriate   accounting    principles    and   procedures
consistently applied.
(b) In addition, the Borrower shall cause NIGELEC and,
starting March 31, 1985, OFEDES, to: (i) have their accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of their financial statements for such year
as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such


﻿-7-
other information concerning their accounts and financial state-
ments and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause NIGELEC and OFEDES:
(a) to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice;
(b) to carry on their operations and conduct their affairs
in accordance with sound administrative, financial and public
utility practices under the supervision of qualified and ex-
perienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers; and
(c) at all times to operate and to maintain their plants,
wells, boreholes, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound
engineering, financial and public utility practices.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause NIGELEC to establish
within its organization, not later than June 30, 1983, a separate
Water Supply Department and assign to such Department the respon-
sibility of NIGELEC's water supply operations.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than December 31, 1983, carry out the study
included in Part B.2 of the Project and furnish to the Associa-
tion the recommendations of such study;
(b) afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to com-
ment thereon;
(c) by June 30, 1984, prepare a plan of action (including,
if recommended, the establishment of a national water supply
entity) satisfactory to the Association, on the basis of the
recommendations of such study and the comments of the Association
thereon; and
(d) carry out, promptly thereafter, such plan of action.


﻿- 8 -
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall, after the establishment of
a national water supply entity, cause such entity to carry on its
operations, conduct its affairs and operate and maintain its
property as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 4.03 of
this Agreement.
Section 4.08. (a) The Borrower shall take or cause to be
taken all necessary action regarding the level of NIGELEC's and
OFEDES' water charges as required to increase by March 1, 1983,
their revenues related to water supply services by not less than
20%.
(b) The Borrower shall provide funds to NIGELEC and OFEDES
to cover their aggregate operating deficits related to water
supply services.
Section 4.09. (a) The Borrower shall take, or cause to be
taken, all necessary action regarding the level of NIGELEC's,
OFEDES' and, after its establishment, the national water supply
entity's charges for their water supply services as required to
provide NIGELEC, OFEDES and the national water supply entity in
each year, starting in 1985, with revenues sufficient to cover
the operating expenses of NIGELEC, OFEDES and the national water
supply entity related to such services. For purposes of this
Section, "operating expenses" means all of NIGELEC's, OFEDES' and
the national water supply entity's operation and maintenance
costs for piped water supply systems, depreciation costs, taxes,
interest and allocations of the cost of central administrative
and technical services.
(b) The Borrower shall provide funds to OFEDES to cover the
maintenance costs of rural wells and boreholes not reimbursed by
district councils or by the users.
Section 4.10. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that, on the
first day of every calendar month, the amount due to NIGELEC or
the national water supply entity, as the case may be, on account
of their water supply services to its customers, particularly any
agencies or departments of the Borrower, is less than the aggre-
gate amount charged or to be charged by NIGELEC or the national
water supply entity, as the case may be, to such customers on
account of water supply services provided during the four calen-
dar months immediately preceding that day.


﻿-9-
(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this Section the Bor-
rower shall, not later than December 1, 1983, furnish to the
Association a plan of action, satisfactory to the Association, to
eliminate any amounts due NIGELEC for more than four months by
agencies or departments of the Borrower, and carry out such plan
promptly thereafter.
ARTICLE V    r
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that subject to para-
graph (b) of this Section, the right of the Borrower to withdraw
the proceeds of any grant made to the Borrower for the financing
of the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement pro-
viding therefor.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation, or termination is not caused
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement, and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and condi-
tions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of this Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a)  that UNDP has notified the Association that all condi-
tions of effectiveness of the UNDP Grant Agreement have been ful-
filled, subject only to the effectiveness of this Agreement if
such be the case; and
(b) that the subsidiary agreements referred to in Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement have been entered into.


﻿- 10 -
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an adlitional
matter, within the meaning of Sect".on 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association, namely, that the subsidiary agreements
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement have been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, the Borrower and NIGELEC and OFEDES, respectively, and con-
stitute a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
NIGELEC and OFEDES, respectively, in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date           /      /3,19/3 , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministre du Plan of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere du Plan
Boite Postale 862
Niamey
Niger
Cable address:                      Telex:
MP                                  5230 NI
Niamey
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 11 -
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF NIGER
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1) Consultants'              1,650,000            100% of foreign
and experts'                                  expenditures
services                                     and 90% of
local expen-
ditures
(2) Training and                470,000            100%
education assign-
ments abroad;
training equip-
ment
(3) Goods                     1,500,000            100% of foreign
expenditures
and 90% of
local expen-
diture.
(4) Civil works               1,310,000           90%
(5) Refunding of                310,000           Amount due
Project Prepara-
tion Advance
(6) Unallocated                 860,000
TOTAL     6,100,000


﻿- 13 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the
currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be
"foreign expenditures".
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in res-
pect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such expen-
ditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 14 -
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expend-
itures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opirion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A:   Technical Assistance
1.   Establishment of regional services of the Ministry to plan
and supervise rural water supply projects requiring about 8 man-
years of a planner and 2 hydrogeologists.
2.   Strengthening of OFEDES' logistics sections, requiring about
4.5 man-years of 3 technicians.
3.   Strengthening  of  NIGELEC's  commercial  and  water  supply
department, requiring about 4.5 man-years of a commercial
officer, a water distribution technician and a meter technician.
4.   Audit of NIGELEC's 1981 and 1982 accounts.
Part B:   Studies
1.   Inventory of water supply and electric power connections of
NIGELEC in Niamey.
2.   Feasibility studies to restructure NIGELEC and OFEDES, to
establish a national water supply entity, and to determine man-
power requirements for the foregoing.
3.   Feasibility studies and engineering design of rural and
urban water supply projects.
4.   Development and establishment of financial and cost account-
ing systems for OFEDES.
Part C:   Training
1.   Strengthening the water supply curriculum and-training acti-
vities of NIGELEC's water and electricity training center at
Niamey and the health schools of the Borrower, requiring about 3
man-years of water specialist training officers, and training
abroad of junior staff.


﻿2.   Training abroad of students nationals of the Borrower, and
technical staff of the Ministry in matters related to water
supply, requiring about 25 man-years of scholarships.
Part D:   Investment
1.   Construction and equipping of regional offices and workshops
of the Ministry in Maradi and Zinder.
2.   (a) In Niamey, upgrading the water treatment plants by
modification   of  the  hydraulic  and   electromechanic
system.
(b) In Dosso, drilling of three production boreholes and
acquisition of equipment therefor, construction of a
500 m3 groundlevel reservoir, and acquisition and
utilization of about 5 km of 300 mm and lower diameter
pipes for the extension of the distribution network.
3.   Installation  of  about 3,000 domestic water meters and
related equipment and construction of meter maintenance workshops
for NIGELEC?s water supply operations.
4.   Acquisition and utilization of about 15 derricks, about 5
tow trucks and about 8 grab-buckets for OFEDES' maintenance oper-
ations.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1985.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notifi-
cation to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the
goods in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 18 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Niger may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Niger
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Association that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Niger equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in


﻿- 19 -
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
wnich as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Civil works contracts and contracts for goods estimated to
cost less than $50,000 equivalent may be procured on the basis of
local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Associa-
tion provided that the aggregate cost of the contracts so pro-
cured does not exceed $500,000 equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost
more than $150,000 equivalent and civil works estimated to cost
more than $250,000 equivalent:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, and such other information
as the Association, shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 20 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ .Com
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prompt-
ly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Asso-
ciation of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective
bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Bor-
rower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
1983
FOR SECRETARY


