Report No. PID8761
Project Name                     Nicaragua-Economic Management Technical...
Assistance
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Economic Management
Project                          NIPE49296
Borrower(s)                      Republic of Nicaragua
Implementing Agency              CERAP, MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                December 10, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         November 29, 1999
Projected Board Date             January 20, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Nicaragua is in the midst of completing the dual transition from a centrally
planned to market economy, and from war and instability to peaceful
democracy. Private financial intermediaries have emerged, domestic and
foreign investment is recovering, open unemployment has been falling, and
democratic institutions are being strengthened. IDA's Institutional
Development Credit approved in 1995 has helped finance the first stage of a
comprehensive reform of the public sector. It includes an integrated
financial management system, design of a major civil service reform, a
streamlining of the macro-structure of the central government (through the
comprehensive Law 290 approved by the Congress in June, 1998), ongoing agency
specific reforms in several pilot ministries, initiation of an anti-
corruption effort, and in general an increased focus on, and ability to
promote, organizational and cultural changes within a public sector still
burdened by imbalances, over-centralization, and poor service orientation.
Despite this progress and real Government commitment to reform, Nicaragua
remains a poor nation with limited capacity to mobilize or effectively use
resources for economic and social development. The slow and inadequate
response by the state to the devastation caused by Hurricane Mitch and the
apparently constant challenge of identifying and rooting out corruption
demonstrate starkly the need to continue public sector capacity building and
policy reform to create the framework for private sector investment, higher
growth, and effective support for poverty alleviation. The government needs
to reduce still large fiscal deficits, while protecting social expenditure,
in order to consolidate the macroeconomic stability and increase the
country's low saving rate.
Specific problems include the following: (i) while new governmental financial
management systems have been developed and are being applied within the
Ministry of Finance, they need to be installed and executed on a sustainable
basis in all central government ministries and key entities as well as
expanded to local governments; (ii) a new Civil Service regime being proposed
in pending legislation needs to be implemented; (iii) the formulation,



execution, and supervision of macroeconomic, fiscal, and investment policies
suffer from organizational overlap and gaps, poor human resources, and a lack
of coordination across the various agencies; and (iv) the agenda for public
sector reform has been increased by recent legislation mandating the
streamlining of the state's macro-structure and efforts to enunciate a
national anti-corruption effort.
2. Objectives
The project's objective is to expand and deepen the modernization of
Nicaragua's public sector by improving the government's economic planning,
policy formulation, and execution capacity. This effort would strengthen the
framework for governance, and thus improve business confidence, private
sector led growth, and poverty alleviation. Building on the progress already
achieved through the ongoing public sector modernization program supported by
the Institutional Development Credit project (IDC-2690), the project would
expand Nicaragua's successful integrated financial management reform effort,
implement fundamental reform of the civil service, support the creation of
small units to promote improved macroeconomic, public investment, and fiscal
policy formulation and implementation, target for reform key services in
several priority agencies, and meet demands for the streamlining of the
central administration, increasing national integrity, and encouraging
citizen and public sector stakeholder knowledge and support for reform.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Bank support would provide critically needed and timely financing; supply
high quality technical advice based on worldwide and regional experience in
public sector reform and modernization, financial management, economic
management, and fiscal policy formulation; convey credibility and
transparency to the reform effort; and promote efficient and effective use of
the resources supporting the Government's program. It will also serve to
catalyze the participation of other international agencies and bilateral
donors in co-financing the reform program.
4. Description
Project Component 1 - Extending Integrated Financial Management Reform
This component would extend the Integrated Financial Management Reform (SIGFA
I) effort initiated in 1995 with the assistance of USAID, IDB, and IDA.
Considerable advances have been achieved so far--all core subsystems have
been implemented (with new norms and regulations, standards, procedures and
operating manuals for budget, accounting, cash management debt management,
public procurement, and internal and external auditing) supported by an
extensive training program throughout ministries and other Central Government
entities. Modern information technology systems have been installed in the
Ministry of Finance, linking over 220 workstations to the central integrated
data base, where all financial transactions of Central Government ministries
and entities have been registered since January 1998. This has permitted the
timely production of formal financial statements on a monthly and quarterly
basis since mid-1998, as well as the provision of on-line, real time budget
execution information to decisions makers in the Ministry of Finance.
Closing financial statements for fiscal year 1998, produced by the new
system, were delivered to the Minister of Finance during the first week of
-2 -



January 1999, a significant improvement from previous years when the fiscal
accounts were reported with a lag of between 6 and 10 months.
The proposed second stage would: (i) support the deepening of the reforms in
various financial management sub-systems (accounting, treasury and cash
management, procurement management; public debt management; fixed asset and
inventory management; human resources management) initiated under the first
project and advance more fundamental budget reforms including the development
of a medium term expenditure framework and focus on evaluating results now
permitted by the advances in the various financial management operating sub-
systems; (ii) extend financial management reforms to all central government
ministries and several key entities (through training, capacity building, and
information technology) integrated with the reformed system now operating at
the central Ministry of Finance level; (iii) continue to strengthen the
Comptroller General Office's audit capabilities, as well as the internal
audit units of central government entities, and allow auditors remote on-line
access to the central and institutional financial management systems for
audit purposes; (iv) develop financial management systems to be piloted in
two mid-size municipalities and in the municipal development institute
(INIFOM); and (v) support a program of activities directed at promoting
public awareness with respect to public sector reform issues, and in
particular financial management reform, within the framework of good
governance, transparency, accountability, and anti-corruption goals. An
extensive training program will support project implementation. Information
technology investments would cover seventeen central government ministries
and entities (the Presidency, the 12 ministries, the National Assembly, the
Electoral Council, the Judiciary and the Comptroller General's Office),
serving approximately 500 workstations, and supported by a robust data-
transmission communications network.
Project Component 2 - Deepening Civil Service Reform
Weaknesses in human resource management have long been identified as a major
stumbling block to public sector performance in Nicaragua. Low pay, limited
training, ad hoc personnel procedures, lack of a legal framework, politicized
rotation of staff, low esprit de corp, and limited focus on performance have
all undermined the civil service. Since 1990 the Government has sought to
rectify the situation as possible, within tight fiscal and political
constraints. A major accomplishment has been a significant downsizing of
staff, although at first this often resulted in the departure of the best
employees. Prospects for significant pay increases for professional staff
remain restricted for the foreseeable future. Despite this important
limitation, the Government continues to make improvements. Under the
Institutional Development project, comprehensive human resources legislation
has been prepared for submission to the Assembly, a management information
system designed, job classifications efforts piloted, and the capacity of the
Public Employee Directorate within the Finance Ministry strengthened.
The Government is seeking, under the proposed project, to support
implementation of the new, more professional and merit based human resources
regime contemplated in the recently submitted draft legislation (Civil
Service and Administrative Career Law). Approval of satisfactory legislation
is a condition of disbursement of this component. Key sub-components would
include the following: (i) continue the capacity building of the Public
Employee Directorate (DIFUP) in the Ministry of Finance which will serve as
- 3 -



the rector institution as well as providing technical assistance to personnel
units in line agencies. Operational manuals will be developed, and training
on procedures and criteria will support the general system; (ii) evaluating
and classifying all positions within the central government (except for the
military and education and health workers covered under separate legislation)
and creating a registry of all government employees including their relevant
personal and employment data; and (iii) communicating the new rights and
responsibilities of public employees (both within the government and to
citizens) to promote a change in culture and to facilitate achievement of the
goals of increased professionalization and transparency.
Project Component 3--Strengthening Economic Management
Strengthening the overall capacity of the government to manage its financial
and human resources should be complemented by targeted interventions to
improve critical services provided by selected agencies. Priorities will
include: (i) the formulation of macroeconomic policy, including public
investment and improved coordination of economic and social programs; (ii)
the formulation, implementation and evaluation of fiscal policy; and (iii)
internal operations and/or services to the public with potential high impact
on investment and economic activity.
A. Strengthening macro-economic policy formulation- -Technical Secretariat of
the Presidency (SETEC)
Weaknesses in macro-economic policy formulation, integration, and public
investment planning have hampered the Government's ability to plan and
execute coherent policies. Reliance on outside agencies (domestic and
external) for such activities leads to inefficiencies, duplication, and lack
of ownership. The Government, with the support of the IDC project, designed
and proposed far-reaching legislation (Law 290) approved in June, 1998,
which, among other things authorized creation of a small Technical
Secretariat to: (i) provide technical advice to the President and cabinet on
economic and social policies; (ii) oversee the design of the Government's
annual and medium term economic programming; (iii) monitor macroeconomic
performance; (iv) oversee the National Public Investment System; (v) promote
the coordination and consistency of social and economic policies across
ministries; and (vi) participate in policy formulation on privatization of
public enterprises.    To accomplish this mission, SETEC needs a small core of
highly qualified professionals with experience in economic policy formulation
and analysis. At the same time, SETEC will need external assistance from
experts in specialized fields while it builds its own capacity.
SETEC also oversees the National System of Public Investment (SNIP), composed
of the Directorate of Public Investment (DGIP) and the laws, regulations,
data bases, and line agencies involved in such spending. The DGIP has over
the last 18 months developed and issued guidelines for preparing projects
(information requirements, formats, cost estimation, review criteria),
revamped the information system that helps evaluate and monitor projects, and
initiated training of line agency staff responsible for the initial
development and assessment of projects. Despite these achievements,
additional efforts are needed in training (including basic finance and
microeconomics) for line agency staff due to deficiencies in university
preparation and the high levels of rotation by younger and better educated
staff. There is a need for technical assistance to strengthen the
- 4 -



professional capacity of the central office and recruit Nicaraguan
professionals, particularly in health, education, transport, and
macroeconomics. The authorities wish as well to improve the SNIP project
data bank system with a reporting module for management and analysis;
implement a module for economic analysis and project evaluation similar to
the COSTAB; and establish an internet node and a Web site to better interact
with counterparts in line ministries and provide relevant information to
other branches of government and the public in general.
This sub-component will support startup costs, some operational expenses on a
declining basis, training, "twinning" arrangements with similiar
organizations in the region, and external technical assistance. By the third
year of the project the government will be fully responsible for staff
compensation. At the end of the project SETEC is expected to have created
the technical capacity to fulfill its function and consolidate its
institutional prominence to ensure its continuity.
B. Building fiscal analysis capacity - Fiscal Advisory Unit (OAFE)
Although the continuing need for structural adjustment in Nicaragua requires
major improvement in public sector finances, the Finance Ministry lacks the
institutional capacity to appropriately design and implement fiscal policies
or reforms. Fiscal measures taken in recent years have been under the
leadership of the Central Bank with considerable outside assistance from the
IMF and IDA. A properly functioning Finance Ministry capable of meeting its
legislated responsibilities is necessary to strengthen policy design,
implementation capacity, government commitment, and sustainable adjustment.
The Government believes it necessary and appropriate to strengthen the fiscal
capacity of the Finance Ministry, given its long term responsibilities as
well as the more immediate needs to design, execute, and monitor national
policies in line with Nicaragua's ESAF and HIPC programs.
This sub-component would help create fiscal policy design and analysis
capacity in the ministry and permit it to act in concert with the Technical
Secretariat and Central Bank in macroeconomic policy formulation. The
proposed Fiscal Advisory Unit would aim at: (i) improving fiscal policy
planning with a focus on sustained revenues generation and expenditure
efficiency; (ii) preparing multi-year fiscal plans based on fiscal discipline
and improved sector policies with the cooperation of line ministries, the
SIGFA project, and SETEC; (iii) creating and managing an ex-post fiscal
policy performance evaluation procedure; and (iv) providing technical support
to senior authorities on other macroeconomic and public finance issues as
requested. The credit will fund technical assistance, information
technology, "twinning" arrangements, and training and operating costs on a
declining basis. At the end of the project OAFE is expected to have created
the technical capacity to accomplish its mission and to ensure its
sustainability.
C. Strengthening Line Agencies and Key Services
The weaknesses in public administration are manifest in operations of line
agencies. During implementation of the Institutional Development Credit, the
state reform authorities pursued a two prong strategy for organizational
reform. At the macro level, the project concentrated on the revision of the
legal framework and of the mission, functions and organization of the
- 5 -



Executive Branch. These efforts led to a protracted and arduous process of
discussion and negotiation at the highest levels of government, which
culminated with the approval by the National Assembly in July of 1998 of the
"Ley de Organizacion, Competencia, y Procedimientos del Poder Ejecutivo".
This Law 290, which sets forth the new organization of the Executive Branch,
represents a significant success for the reform program. It has succeeded
not only in reducing significantly the number of institutions of the
Executive Branch, but towards resolving issues of overlapping missions,
unclear boundaries between institutions, and duplication of functions. The
law is already estimated to have produced annual savings of some $5 million
beginning in the 2000 budget.
On the other, "micro" front, the project focused on the development and
implementation of Institutional Restructuring Agreements (ARIs) with selected
institutions-- the Ministry of Finance (MHCP), Ministry of Transport and
Infrastructure (MTI), Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources
(MARENA), Ministry of Industry and Commerce (MIFIC), Ministry of the Family
(MIFAM) and the Nicaraguan Social Security Institute (INSS) -- and by the
municipal development agency, INIFOM. In each ministry, Change Teams were
organized and trained to participate fully in the effort of
structure/functional diagnoses, design of restructuring efforts, negotiation
of agreements with CERAP, and the initiation of change management programs.
Some 70 processes within these ministries have been analyzed (12 in MHCP, 11
in MTI, 9 in MARENA, 19 in MIFIC, 3 in MIFAM), their administrative structure
reviewed, various legal issues addressed (through laws such as the Land and
Water Transport Law), and inter-ministerial coordination improved as in the
management and coordination of natural resource administration. Some of the
analyzed and redesigned processes are : (i) budget execution and modification
in the Finance Ministry; (ii) replacement of vehicles (trucks, buses and
taxis), renewal of operation licenses, and authorization of aerial routes in
the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure; (iii) project management and
environmental impact statements in the Ministry of National Resources and
Environment; (iv) forest concessioning and supervision, mine concessioning,
and exploitation of fish resources in the Ministry of Industry and Commerce;
and (v) child adoption processes for the Ministry of the Family. The
authorities view the new procedures for the authorization of truck routes,
truck permit renewals, taxi licensing, and ship registration in the Ministry
of Transport and Infrastructure as tangible examples of improvements achieved
with the support of the institutional restructuring effort.
To build on this program, the proposed second project will target several
priority ministries to restructure and streamline processes and services.
Based on the institutional reform diagnoses and restructuring efforts already
initiated, the Government has identified 12 processes and 6 services within
four ministries that in the opinion of those ministries represent critical
targets for reform. Whether termed processes (i.e. more internal to the
operation of the agency but with clear links to external effectiveness) or
services (with direct interface with citizens or investors), all were
selected by the different ministries on the basis of their potential
practical impact on economic activities. The Ministries of Finance, Industry
and Commerce, Transportation and Infrastructure, and Natural Resources are
the target agencies. Their respective ministers have requested the support
of UCRESEP for the reform of specific processes and services based on the
positive results achieved during implementation of the Institutional
Development project. The reforms, which of course will vary depending on the
- 6 -



circumstances, are expected to result in faster processes, reduced costs,
less discretionality in decision-making, improved inter-institutional
coordination, and greater transparency. The aim of this sub-component would
be to provide the state reform effort with the capacity to respond flexibly
to specific service delivery needs with a high chance of success and
visibility. UCRESEP expects to respond to additional demands from other
ministries for service reforms using separate sources of external or national
funds.
The subcomponent would finance technical assistance, training, and limited
goods purchases to permit a comprehensive diagnosis of the service and its
clients, business reengineering taking into account time, costs, and value,
the training of public employees, and selected investments in information
technology systems and small physical infrastructure. The technical
assistance would be provided through a framework agreement signed between the
relevant ministry and UCRESEP, specifying costs, timetables, results
anticipated. As part of these reengineering efforts, a diagnosis of
integrity issues would be conducted for each selected service. Where
feasible, such a diagnosis could include a "scorecard" that rates the
respective services in terms of efficiency, effectiveness, transparency, and
overall client satisfaction. This effort would be coordinated with the
National Integrity Program as an important tool in changing the culture of
integrity within the public sector.
Project Component 4 - Deepening Public Sector Reform
To achieve its public sector modernization goals, the Government must address
several additional challenges including the consolidation of executive branch
restructuring (stemming from Law 290) and the strengthening of national
integrity and fight against corruption, as well as oversight and coordination
of the comprehensive reforms of the state supported by this and other
projects.
Implementing the Government Reorganization Law-- The macro reform of the
executive branch requires the government budget to be consistent with Law 290
and requires producing organic and functional regulations for each agency.
Given the budget reductions already promoted by Law 290, deeper
implementation is expected to produce further savings. Further reforms are
mandated under the legislation, especially the preparation of internal
regulations, and additional areas of duplication and inconsistencies have
been noted requiring further adjustments through organization level reforms.
These include, for example, consolidating the regulatory body for natural
resources concessions, improving the system of property titles registration
which suffers from organizational confusion and poor coordination within the
executive branch, and deconcentration of selected executive branch operations
to regional departments. This sub-component would finance a small program of
technical assistance to agencies, in line with the priorities of CERAP, to
seek additional rationalizations in the macro-structure of the state that
offer real prospects of budget savings and/or increased efficiency and
effectiveness. It will also fund a program of technical assistance to
ministries preparing updated operating processes and procedures manuals as
required by the regulations of Law 290.
Strengthening of public sector integrity--Under the Institutional Development
project, an anti-corruption was incorporated to help establish a National
- 7 -



Integrity Committee in March 1998 and a comprehensive National Integrity Plan
(NIP) in May 1999. The World Bank Institute contributed significantly to
these efforts as well. Despite achievements to date, continuing efforts are
required. Public opinion surveys conducted in Nicaragua in recent years have
revealed widespread perceptions of high levels of corruption among
governmental officials. Responses to combat corruption are constrained,
however, by a number of factors, including: the inadequacy of resources for
implementing the NIP; the relative lack of attention given to integrity in
the original design of state reform; and the difficulties of implementation
stemming from the fact that, while the National Integrity Committee is
intended to elaborate national goals, implementation is the primary
responsibility of a variety of public sector agencies and actors.
To help surmount these various obstacles, the proposed project would, in
addition to the reforms in financial (SIGFA) and human resource (civil
service) management, undertake to strengthen integrity through the provision
of technical assistance in support of the following initiatives:
(i) institutional strengthening of the National Integrity Committee,
including support to its Director and technical personnel;
(ii) continued implementation of key components of the NIP, including (a)
implementation of a Code of Ethics for public servants, including extensive
dissemination of the code among governmental agencies; (b) drafting and
implementation of various laws stemming from the general principles of the
NIP designed to prevent and control corruption including a Moral Integrity
and Probity Law, which will update requirements for the declaration of
assets, an Access to Information Law designed to enhance the access of the
citizenry to information regarding a broad array of governmental decisions,
regulations, services, and a Citizen Participation Law to facilitate and
extend citizen participation in the legislative process as well as through
mechanisms of popular consultation.
(iii) elaboration of a Code of Conduct for Communications Media designed by
journalists themselves and intended to create an ethical framework applicable
to media associations.
State Reform Implementation--The state reform coordinating unit (UCRESEP)
has been empowered through Presidential Decree 44-94 and 10-98 to: (a) give
technical and operational assistance to the execution of all public sector
modernization efforts under the guidance of the Executive Secretary of the
Committee for Reform of Public Administration (CERAP); (b) centralize all
information and documents related to the design and execution of state
reform; (c) act as a link between this effort and international
organizations; and (d) administer funds for the program. It is overseeing
separate agreements with other donors and is the PCU for IDA's
telecommunications project. The proposed project would project execution and
coordinating unit, which includes CERAP and UCRESEP staff and goods and
services for UCRESEP and the overall evaluation and monitoring of results.
1. Extending Integrated Financial        Management (SIGFA II)
2. Expanding Civil Service Reform
3. Strengthening Economic     Management
4. Deepening Public Sector Reform
-8-



5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government                                       4.09
IBRD
IDA                                              20.9
AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT              2.55
BILATERAL AGENCIES (UNIDENTIFIED)                 0.62
Total Project Cost                                28.16
6. Implementation
Implementation Period: Three years: 2000 - 2002
Project Implementation and Coordination:    The project will extend the
ongoing public sector reform program under the general oversight of the
cabinet level Executive Committee for the Reform of Public Administration
(CERAP), which is chaired by the President. The Coordinating Unit for Public
Sector Reform (UCRESEP) supports CERAP and supervises project execution.
UCRESEP was created by Presidential Decree in 1994 and is executing the
current Institutional Development project. It has a trained staff,
substantial experience in the supervision of consultants, procurement
activities, and the oversight and coordination of various reform components.
The Director of UCRESEP acts as the project director, working closely with
the Vice President of the Republic on a daily basis. Separate component
managers will provide technical expertise and oversee day to day project
implementation in close coordination with UCRESEP, which will provide support
on procurement and contract supervision, financial management, and overall
project integration. At the request of the authorities, and for the purpose
of promoting ownership and the most rapid execution of the integrated
financial management component which is linked to the achievement of HIPC
targets, the project executing unit within the Ministry of Finance will be
upgraded in order to be responsible for all of its physical, financial, and
procurement operations. This unit would provide regular Project Management
Reports to UCRESEP for consolidation with the remainder of the project, and
to the World Bank for disbursement of credit funds to be held in a separate
Special Account. It will begin handling its procurement and other
project/credit responsibilities once the Bank is satisfied that it meets
necessary requirements. Overall project finances and audits, including from
this unit, will be consolidated at UCRESEP.
Accounting, Financial Reporting, and Auditing Arrangements: Each of the
entities in charge of managing project resources will maintain separate
project records and will periodically report to UCRESEP on those resources.
Such records will be maintained in order to reflect, in accordance with sound
accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures of each
project activity. Implementing entities will be staffed at all times with
qualified financial and accounting professionals. Adequate financial
management arrangements for the project will be included in the Operations
Manual. UCRESEP will prepare combined financial statements for the project
as a whole. The project accounts maintained by UCRESEP and all the other
executing entities will be audited periodically by independent and qualified
auditors acceptable to IDA, and in accordance with International Standards on
Auditing and the guidance provided in the "Guidelines and Terms of Reference
for Audits of Project with Financing by the World Bank in the Latin America
and Caribbean Region" (the Guidelines) and other guidance. The auditors will
-9-



be in place by project effectiveness and before the beginning of each year to
be audited, and will perform interim audit work every quarter. All
implementing entities will submit their audited financial statements in a
timely manner so that UCRESEP can submit to IDA a certified copy of the
agreed audit reports no later than four months after the end of each year.
In order to be in full compliance with the revised Bank requirements per
OP/BP 10.02, UCRESEP and the executing entities will implement planning,
budgeting, accounting and reporting systems that substantially satisfy the
needs of the project. Also, Project Management has agreed to take the
actions needed to have an integrated system which will allow for PMR-based
disbursements. Traditional disbursement methods will be used for the first
two quarters of the project if, due to valid reasons, such system is not in
place by the loan effectiveness date.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements. UCRESEP will monitor project
execution through a set of key performance indicators, supported by IDA
supervision missions. UCRESEP has provided IDA a plan for integrating
several IDC activities with the new operation. UCRESEP will provide a first
year work plan as a condition of credit effectiveness, and prepare annual
work programs prior to each calendar year. Annual reviews of the project
will be carried out not later than March 31 of each year, starting in 2000.
A mid-term review would be conducted by March 2001 to assess progress in
meeting agreed targets and to identify additional support as needed. Semi-
annual progress reports will be presented to the Bank no later than 30 days
after the conclusion of each calendar semester, starting in 2000.
Co-financing. Nicaragua's state reform effort is attracting significant co-
financing from international financial institutions and bilateral donors.
The first phase of the integrated financial management reform effort was co-
financed by Sweden (SIDA), USAID and the IDB, in addition to IDA. USAID will
contribute to the second phase of this project component, and possibly SIDA
and the European Union. Bilateral resources have supported institutional
reforms in the Municipal Development Institute in line with the IDC project.
Bilateral funding is also expected to co-finance at a later point civil
service reform, selected institutional restructuring and targeted services,
and portions of the National Integrity Plan. The IMF has provided technical
assistance for the design of the strengthening of the fiscal affairs unit to
be supported by the proposed project.
7. Sustainability
Changes in legal frameworks, human resources and incentives, operating
policies and procedures, and information technology systems should have
visible positive impacts on service delivery and transparency. In the cases
of integrated financial management and business processes, the reforms become
proprietary for the receiving agencies, implanted through new information
technology systems, standards, and procedures manuals, training received,
etc. The current and proposed projects' emphases on technology transfer and
training are critical factors for such sustainability. Improved macro-
economic and fiscal policy management should contribute to better economic
performance, building constituencies in the domestic and external private
sector and general public. The proposed anti-corruption initiatives should
also increase citizen demand for sustainably improved public services. In
sum, better public sector performance should create the resource
- 10 -



availability, institutional commitment and capacity, and high and mid-level
constituencies and public insistence within the democratic framework for
sustaining the reforms.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons from the Institutional Development project as well as World Bank
projects worldwide include the need for borrower commitment, strong project
leadership, and an appropriate macro-economic framework. As indicated above,
senior officials of the Government, including the President, Vice President,
and key ministers are promoting a broad state modernization agenda. A
skilled project coordinating unit was created to support the IDC and it
offers credibility and critical institutional memory for this second stage of
the state modernization effort. Nicaragua has been successfully pursuing
structural adjustment supported by a series of IDA credits and IMF
agreements. The country is seeking to qualify for reductions in external
debt payments under the HIPC initiative. Project supervision will also be
intense, both from headquarters and from the resident mission.
Applying lessons from the Bank's experience in public sector management is
more tentative given the evolving state of global knowledge of successful
public sector modernization projects. The lessons and behaviors internalized
in the developed world after decades or even centuries of experience and
governance experimentation are unlikely to be replicated quickly, even if
deemed to be appropriate models. Technical assistance, duplication of model
laws, imported information technology, etc., however necessary, have been
insufficient in many operations to effect a sustainable change in behavior.
This project therefore reflects insights emerging from the 1997 World
Development Report and the 1998 Latin America and Caribbean Region Study
"Beyond the Washington Consensus--Institutions Matter". In line with the
WDR, the project:
(i) builds on, and proposes to continue, the redefinition of the role of the
Nicaraguan state, by supporting decentralization, contracting out, and
privatization where appropriate;
(ii) seeks to match the role of the state to its capability, in this case a
small state with a normative role in economic development seeking to assure
the transparent rule of law, and freeing up such resources as are available
to promote human capital development for the poor;
(iii) builds a better public sector in the remaining core activities by
strengthening service delivery through better human resource management,
modernized and transparent financial management, and targeted interventions
in key organizations and services;
(iv) sequencing reforms cautiously by using targeting rector and line
agencies, rolling out reforms as capacity increases. For example, the
advances made under the Institutional Development project in designing and
piloting reforms in financial and human resource management will now be
applied more broadly within the central government, and, in the case of the
integrated financial management system, piloted in selected municipalities;
and
(v) emphasizing the role of change management to promote a new culture of
service delivery within the public sector and using social communications to
better inform the citizenry of their rights and responsibilities.
All Nicaragua projects in the current portfolio are being implemented in a
- 11 -



satisfactory manner. This reflects considerable efforts by the Government
and local project teams, as well as close supervision by IDA. The recent
opening of a resident mission will increase capacity to work with the project
team and maintain satisfactory project implementation.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)      N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :   As the public sector reform program and various of its
components are related to public investment policies, investment project
oversight, etc., procedures will include evaluation criteria for
environmental and social factors thereon.
11. Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Ronald E. Myers
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-8774
Fax:        (202) 522-3134
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending March 3, 2000.
- 12 -



