Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19977 NI
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.3 MILLION
(US$20.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
FOR AN
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJECT
December 22, 1999
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Central America Country Management
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 22, 1999)
Currency Unit = Nicaragua Cordoba
NI$ 1= US$ 0.08
US$ 1 = NI$ 12.28
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARI          Institutional Restructuring Agreement
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CERAP        Executive Committee for Reform of the Public Administration
DGIP         Directorate of Public Investment
DIFUP        Public Employee Directorate
ESAF         Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GTZ          German Technical Assistance Agency
HIPC         Highly Indebted Poor Country
IDA          International Development Association
IDB          Inter-American Development Bank
IDC          Institutional Development Credit
IFC          International Finance Corporation
IMF          International Monetary Fund
INIFOM       Municipal Development Institute
INSS         Nicaraguan Social Security Institute
MAGUN        Government Audit Standards
MARENA       Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources
MHCP         Ministry of Finance
MIFIC        Ministry of Development, Industry, and Commerce
MTI          Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure
NIP          National Integrity Plan
OAFE         Fiscal Advisory Unit
OCG          Office of the Comptroller General
SETEC        Technical Secretariat
SIDA         Sweden International Development Agency
SIGFA        Integrated Financial and Administrative Management System
SNIP         National System of Public Investment
UCRESEP    Coordinating Unit for Reform of the Public Sector
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
WDR          World Development Report
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager/Director:    Guillermo Perry
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Ronald E. Myers



Nicaragua
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  3
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       9
3. Benefits and target population                                                     10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      10
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        14
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic                                                                           14
2. Financial                                                                          14
3. Technical                                                                          15
4. Institutional                                                                      15
5. Social                                                                             16
6. Environmental assessment                                                           16
7. Participatory approach                                                             16
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     16
2. Critical risks                                                                     16
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     17



G. Main conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions                                                           17
2. Other                                                                              17
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          18
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         18
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         19
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   25
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        36
Annex 4: Summary of Benefits and Costs                                                  37
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              38
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      39
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    45
Annex 8: Documents in Project File                                                      46
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 47
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           49



NICARAGUA
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCR Public Sector Management
Date: December 22, 1999                           Team Leader: Ronald E. Myers
Country Manager/Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo   Sector Manager/Director: Guillermo Perry
Project ID: P049296                               Sector(s): ME - Economic Management
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)   Theme(s): PUBLIC SECTOR
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
E Loan          0 Credit        O Grant         O Guarantee     O Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 20.9 million equivalent
Proposed Terms: O To be defined I Multicurrency Cl Single currency
E Standard Variable E Fixed         Cl LIBOR-based
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: .50%                                   Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:    Source                                    Local         Foreign         Total
Government                                                      4.07            0.00          4.07
IBRD
IDA                                                             9.41           11.49         20.90
AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT                            0.82            1.73          2.55
MULTILATERAL INSTITUTIONS (UNIDENTIFIED)                        0.17            0.46          0.63
Total:                                                         14.47           13.68         28.15
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
Responsible agency:
CERAP
Other Agency(ies):
Contact Person: Maria Jose Jarquin, Director, Coordinating Unit for Reform of the Public Sector
Tel: (505) 222-2521                Fax: (505) 222-2490                Email:
Mariaj@vicepresidencia.gob.ni
Address: Edificio de la Vicepresidencia, Managua, Nicaragua
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
Annual     7.3           8.2          4.4         1.0
Cumulative     7.3          15.5        19.9        20.9
Project implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date: 03/01/2000  Expected closing date:  02/28/2003
.C.PAOFo,,wOdoDe-9 ISSO



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex I)
The project's objective is to expand and deepen the modernization of Nicaragua's public sector by
improving the government's economic planning, policy formulation, and execution capacity. This effort
would strengthen the framework for governance, and thus improve business confidence, private sector led
growth, and poverty alleviation. Building on the progress already achieved through the ongoing public
sector modernization program supported by the Institutional Development Credit project (IDC-2690), the
project would expand Nicaragua's successful integrated financial management reform effort, implement
fundamental reform of the civil service, support the creation of small units to promote improved
macroeconomic, public investment, and fiscal policy formulation and implementation, target for reform key
services in several priority agencies, and meet demands for the streamlining of the central administration,
increasing national integrity, and encouraging citizen and public sector stakeholder knowledge and support
for reform.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex I)
Key performance indicators would monitor the operation and results of the several financial and economic
management units as well as services provided by the reformed line entities.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R98-32; IFC/R98-4 I                 Date of latest CAS discussion: 04/09/98
The reduction of poverty and income equality is at the center of IDA's assistance program. Specifically,
IDA's main objectives are to: (i) consolidate growth through private sector development, (ii) develop the
rural sector and strengthen environmental protection, and (iii) develop human capital and protect the poor.
Key goals in the strategy include the modernization of the state, including increasing transparency and
strengthening the judicial system, and the reduction of the external debt burden to sustainable levels
through the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative (HIPC). The proposed project would directly
support both public sector modernization and the country's ability to meet its HIPC targets. It would
promote private sector led growth by strengthening (i) macroeconomic, public investment, and fiscal policy
formulation and implementation; and (ii) the effectiveness, efficiency, and transparency of key public
services.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Nicaragua is in the midst of completing the dual transition from a centrally planned to market economy,
and from war and instability to peaceful democracy. Private financial intermediaries have emerged,
doomestic and foreign investment is recovering, open unemployment has been falling, and democratic
institutions are being strengthened. IDA's Institutional Development Credit approved in 1995 has helped
finance the first stage of a comprehensive reform of the public sector. It includes an integrated financial
management system, design of a major civil service reform, a streamlining of the macro-structure of the
central government (through the comprehensive Law 290 approved by the Congress in June, 1998),
ongoing agency specific reforms in several pilot ministries, initiation of an anti-corruption effort, and in
general an increased focus on, and ability to promote, organizational and cultural changes within a public
sector still burdened by imbalances, over-centralization, and poor service orientation.
Despite this progress and real Government commitment to reform, Nicaragua remains a poor nation with
- 2 -



limited capacity to mobilize or effectively use resources for economic and social development. The slow
and inadequate response by the state to the devastation caused by Hurricane Mitch and the apparently
constant challenge of identifying and rooting out corruption demonstrate starkly the need to continue public
sector capacity building and policy reform to create the framework for private sector investment, higher
growth, and effective support for poverty alleviation. The. govermnent needs to reduce still large fiscal
deficits, while protecting social expenditure, in order to consolidate the macroeconomic stability and
increase the country's low saving rate.
Specific problems include the following: (i) while new governmental financial management systems have
been developed and are being applied within the Ministry of Finance, they need to be installed and executed
on a sustainable basis in all central government ministries and key entities in order to secure increased
efficiency and transparency benefits as well as to strengthen the role of the budget process as a strategic
tool for national decision-making; (ii) a new Civil Service regime being proposed in pending legislation
needs to be implemented; (iii) the formulation, execution, and supervision of macroeconomic, fiscal, and
investment policies suffer from organizational overlap and gaps, poor human resources, and a lack of
coordination across the various agencies; and (iv) the agenda for public sector reform has been increased
by recent legislation mandating the streamlining of the state's macro-structure and efforts to enunciate a
national anti-corruption effort.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Proposed project components would: (i) expand the integrated financial management (SIGFA) effort
currently supported by IDA, USAID, and the IDB, by completing full implementation of SIGFA in all
central government ministries and several key entities; (ii) introduce a merit based civil service system with
a new legal framework established and functioning in all Central Government agencies; (iii) implement
selected macro and micro institutional reforms targeted on agencies, services, and activities with high
anticipated return in terms of improved economic performance. This would improve delivery of economic
related services in the Ministries of Finance, Transport and Infrastructure, Industry and Commerce, and
Natural Resources; support a high-level Technical Secretariat in the Presidency to improve the
government's capability to formulate and implement medium term economic and public investment
programs and promote consistency of social and economic policies across ministries; and strengthen the
Finance Ministry's ability to analyze, design, and implement fiscal policy; and (iv) oversee the state reform
effort as well as promote cross cutting initiatives to complete the regulatory framework for the central
government's macro-structure and promote a coherent program of national integrity to combat corruption.
The project, although broad in reach, is unified by the aim of improving governance in Nicaragua, and
consequently the climate for investment and growth. It would essentially complete several initiatives
(financial and human resource management as well as deepening the restructuring of some agencies) begun
under the current Institutional Development project, while also supporting new targeted interventions to
improve macroeconomic and fiscal policy design and execution.
At the end of the project, public administration in Nicaragua would show continued and measurable
improvement. Although challenges would inevitably remain given the economic and human resource
constraints on the country, there would be greater capacity to design and implement stable and predictable
macroeconomic and fiscal policies; the govermnent's management of its financial and human resources
would be more efficient, effective, and transparent; all central government ministries and several key
entities (and several pilot municipalities) would have modern integrated financial management systems
sharing key information in real time with the Ministry of Finance and with an increased capacity to
program and execute budgets in line with national priorities taking into account prior results, indicators of
- 3 -



performance, and medium term expenditure goals; public employees would be hired and managed under
more transparent and apolitical rules promoting a more defined and secure career path based on
performance and merit; reengineered core business processes in key economic ministries and agencies
would promote improved service delivery and lower transaction costs to citizens and investors; and a
strengthened legal and institutional framework would have reduced the scope for daily corruption
promoting a culture of integrity in public service and greater confidence in public agencies and democratic
institutions. While the governance agenda would not be complete, real gains would have been achieved and
citizens and leaders alike would view the public sector more as a national resource capable of enhancing the
general welfare rather than as a source of corruption, private gain, or an impediment to development.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Project Component 1 - Extending Integrated Financial Management Reform
This component would extend the Integrated Financial Management Reform (SIGFA) effort initiated in
1995 with the assistance of USAID, IDB, and IDA. Considerable advances have been achieved so far--all
core subsystems have been implemented (with new norms and regulations, standards, procedures and
operating manuals for budget, accounting, cash management debt management, public procurement, and
internal and external auditing) supported by an extensive training program throughout ministries and other
Central Government entities. Modern information technology systems have been installed in the Ministry
of Finance, linking over 220 workstations to the central integrated data base, where all financial
transactions of Central Government ministries and entities have been registered since January 1998. This
has permitted the timely production of formal financial statements on a monthly and quarterly basis since
mid-1998, as well as the provision of on-line, real time budget execution information to decisions makers in
the Ministry of Finance. Closing financial statements for fiscal year 1998, produced by the new system,
were delivered to the Minister of Finance during the first week of January 1999, a significant improvement
from previous years when the fiscal accounts were reported with a lag of between 6 and 10 months.
The proposed second stage would: (i) support the deepening of the reforms in various financial
management sub-systems (accounting, treasury and cash management, procurement management; public
debt management; fixed asset and inventory management; human resources management) initiated under
the first project and advance more fundamental budget reforms including the development of a medium
term expenditure framework and focus on evaluating results now permitted by the advances in the various
financial management operating sub-systems; (ii) extend financial management reforms to all central
government ministries and several key entities (through training, capacity building, and information
technology) integrated with the reformed system now operating at the central Ministry of Finance level; (iii)
continue to strengthen the Comptroller General Office's audit capabilities, as well as the internal audit units
of central government entities, and allow auditors remote on-line access to the central and institutional
financial management systems for audit purposes; (iv) develop a financial management system in line with
SIGFA concepts to be made available on a voluntary basis to the municipal development institute
(INIFOM) and municipalities; and (v) support a program of activities directed at promoting public
awareness with respect to public sector reform issues, and in particular financial management reform,
within the framework of good governance, transparency, accountability, and anti-corruption goals. An
extensive training program will support project implementation. Information technology investments would
cover seventeen central government ministries and entities (the Presidency, the 12 ministries, the National
Assembly, the Electoral Council, the Judiciary and the Comptroller General's Office), serving
approximately 500 workstations, and supported by a robust data-transmission communications network.
- 4 -



The sustainability of the project will be enhanced through the institutional capacity strengthening of the
Finance Ministry's Information Technology Department (which will oversee the execution of the new
financial management information system as well as serve as the rector agency.for information technology
within the central government). This will be supported by the internal process reforms to be funded by
Component 3.
Project Component 2 - Deepening Civil Service Reform
Weaknesses in human resource management have long been identified as a major stumbling block to public
sector performance in Nicaragua. Low pay, limited training, ad hoc personnel procedures, lack of a legal
framework, politicized rotation of staff, low morale, and limited focus on performance have all undermined
the civil service. Since 1990 the Government has sought to rectify the situation as possible, within tight
fiscal and political constraints. A major accomplishment has been a significant downsizing of staff,
although at first this often resulted in the departure of the best employees. Prospects for significant pay
increases for professional staff remain restricted for the foreseeable future. Despite this important
limitation, the Government continues to make improvements. Under the Institutional Development project,
comprehensive human resources legislation has been prepared for submission to the Assembly, a
management information system designed, job classifications efforts piloted, and the capacity of the Public
Employee Directorate within the Finance Ministry strengthened.
The Government is seeking, under the proposed project, to support implementation of the new, more
professional and merit based human resources regime contemplated in the recently submitted legislation
(Civil Service and Administrative Career Law). Approval of satisfactory legislation is a condition of
disbursement of this component. Key sub-components would include: (i) continuing the capacity building
of the Public Employee Directorate (DIFUP) in the Ministry of Finance which will serve as the rector
institution as well as providing technical assistance to personnel units in line agencies. Operational manuals
will be developed, and training on procedures and criteria will support the general system; (ii) evaluating
and classifying all positions within the central government (except for the military and autonomous
educational centers) and creating a registry of all government employees including their relevant personal
and employment data; and (iii) communicating the new rights and responsibilities of public employees (both
within the government and to citizens) to promote a change in culture and to facilitate achievement of the
goals of increased professionalization and transparency.
Project Component 3-Strengthening Economic Management
Strengthening the overall capacity of the government to manage its financial and human resources should
be complemented by targeted interventions to improve critical services provided by selected agencies.
Priorities will include: (i) the formulation of macroeconomic policy, including public investment and
improved coordination of economic and social programs; (ii) the formulation, implementation and
evaluation of fiscal policy; and (iii) internal operations and/or services to the public with potential high
impact on investment and economic activity.
A. Strengthening macro-economic policy formulation- -Technical Secretariat of the Presidency (SETEC)
Weaknesses in macro-economic policy formulation, integration, and public investment planning have
hampered the Government's ability to plan and execute coherent policies. Reliance on outside agencies
(domestic and external) for such activities leads to inefficiencies, duplication, and lack of ownership. The
Government, with the support of the IDC project, designed and proposed far-reaching legislation (Law
290) approved in June, 1998, which, among other things authorized creation of a small Technical
Secretariat to: (i) provide technical advice to the President and cabinet on economic and social policies; (ii)
- 5 -



oversee the design of the Government's annual and medium term economic programming; (iii) monitor
macroeconomic performance; (iv) oversee the National Public Investment System; (v) promote the
coordination and consistency of social and economic policies across ministries; and (vi) participate in
policy formulation on privatization of public enterprises. To accomplish this mission, SETEC needs a
small core of highly qualified professionals with experience in economic policy formulation and analysis.
At the same time, SETEC will need external assistance from experts in specialized fields while it builds its
own capacity.
SETEC also oversees the National System of Public Investment (SNIP), composed of the Directorate of
Public Investment (DGIP) and the laws, regulations, data bases, and line agencies involved in such
spending. The DGIP has over the last 18 months developed and issued guidelines for preparing projects
(information requirements, formats, cost estimation, review criteria), revamped the information system that
helps evaluate and monitor projects, and initiated training of line agency staff responsible for the initial
development and assessment of projects. Despite these achievements, additional efforts are needed in
training (including basic finance and microeconomics) for line agency staff due to deficiencies in university
preparation and the high levels of rotation by younger and better educated staff. There is a need for
technical assistance to strengthen the professional capacity of the central office and recruit Nicaraguan
professionals, particularly in health, education, transport, and macroeconomics. The authorities wish as
well to improve the SNIP project data bank system with a reporting module for management and analysis;
implement a module for economic analysis and project evaluation similar to the COSTAB; and establish an
internet node and a Web site to better interact with counterparts in line ministries and provide relevant
information to other branches of government and the public in general.
This sub-component will support startup costs, some operational expenses on a declining basis, training,
"twinning" arrangements with similar organizations in the region, and external technical assistance. By the
third year of the project the government will be fully responsible for line staff compensation. At the end of
the project SETEC is expected to have created the technical capacity to fulfill its function and consolidate
its institutional prominence to ensure its continuity.
B. Building fiscal analysis capacity - Fiscal Advisory Unit (OAFE)
Although the continuing need for structural adjustment in Nicaragua requires major improvement in public
sector finances, the Finance Ministry lacks the institutional capacity to appropriately design and implement
fiscal policies or reforms. Fiscal measures taken in recent years have been under the leadership of the
Central Bank with considerable outside assistance from the IMF and IDA. A properly functioning Finance
Ministry capable of meeting its legislated responsibilities is necessary to strengthen policy design,
implementation capacity, government commitment, and sustainable adjustment. The Government believes
it necessary and appropriate to strengthen the fiscal capacity of the Finance Ministry, given its long term
responsibilities as well as the more immediate needs to design, execute, and monitor national policies in line
with Nicaragua's ESAF and HIPC programs.
This sub-component would help create fiscal policy design and analysis capacity in the ministry and permit
it to act in concert with the Technical Secretariat and Central Bank in macroeconomic policy formulation.
The proposed Fiscal Advisory Unit would aim at: (i) improving fiscal policy planning with a focus on
sustained revenues generation and expenditure efficiency; (ii) preparing multi-year fiscal plans based on
fiscal discipline and improved sector policies with the cooperation of line ministries, the SIGFA project,
and SETEC; (iii) creating and managing an ex-post fiscal policy performance evaluation procedure; and
(iv) providing technical support to senior authorities on other macroeconomic and public finance issues as
requested. The credit will fund technical assistance, information technology, "twinning" arrangements, and
training and operating costs on a declining basis. By the third year of the project the government will be
fully responsible for line staff compensation. At the end of the project OAFE is expected to have created
-6 -



the technical capacity to accomplish its mission and to ensure its sustainability.
C. Strengthening Line Agencies and Key Services
The weaknesses in public administration are manifest in operations of line agencies. During
implementation of the Institutional Development Credit, the state reform authorities pursued a two prong
strategy for organizational reform. At the macro level, the project concentrated on the revision of the legal
framework and of the mission, functions and organization of the Executive Branch. These efforts led to a
protracted and arduous process of discussion and negotiation at the highest levels of government, which
culminated with the approval by the National Assembly in July of 1998 of the "Ley de Organizaci6n,
Competencia, y Procedimientos del Poder Ejecutivo". This Law 290, which sets forth the new organization
of the Executive Branch, represents a significant success for the reform program. It has succeeded not only
in reducing significantly the number of institutions of the Executive Branch, but also making real gains in
resolving issues of overlapping missions, unclear boundaries between institutions, and duplication of
functions. The law is already estimated to have produced annual savings of some $5 million beginning in
the 2000 budget.
On the other, "micro" front, the project focused on the development and implementation of Institutional
Restructuring Agreements (ARIs) with selected institutions-- the Ministry of Finance (MHCP), Ministry of
Transport and Infrastructure (MTI), Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources (MARENA),
Ministry of Development, Industry and Commerce (MIFIC), Ministry of the Family (MIFAM) and the
Nicaraguan Social Security Institute (INSS) -- and by the municipal development agency, INIFOM. In
each ministry, Change Teams were organized and trained to participate in the effort of structure/functional
diagnoses, design of restructuring efforts, negotiation of agreements with CERAP, and the initiation of
change management programs. Some 70 processes within these ministries have been analyzed (12 in
MHCP, 1 1 in MTI, 9 in MARENA, 19 in MIFIC, 3 in MIFAM), their administrative structure reviewed,
various legal issues addressed (through laws such as the Land and Water Transport Law), and
inter-ministerial coordination improved as in the management and coordination of natural resource
administration. Some of the analyzed and redesigned processes are: (i) budget execution and modification
in the Finance Ministry; (ii) replacement of vehicles (trucks, buses and taxis), renewal of operation
licenses, and authorization of aerial routes in the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure; (iii) project
management and environmental impact statements in the Ministry of the Environment and National
Resources; (iv) forest concessioning and supervision, mine concessioning, and exploitation of fish resources
in the Ministry of Development, Industry and Commerce; and (v) child adoption processes for the Ministry
of the Family. The authorities view the new procedures for the authorization of truck routes, truck permit
renewals, taxi licensing, and ship registration in the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure as tangible
examples of improvements achieved through the institutional restructuring effort.
To build on this program, the proposed second project will support the reengineering and streamlining of
processes and services in several priority ministries (Finance, Development, Industry and Commerce,
Transportation and Infrastructure, and Environment and Natural Resources). Based on the institutional
reform diagnoses and restructuring efforts already initiated, 14 processes and 6 services have been
identified as critical targets for reform (see Annex 2). Whether termed processes (more internal to the
operation of the agency but with clear links to external effectiveness) or services (with direct interface with
citizens or investors), all were selected by the different ministries on the basis of their potential practical
impact on economic activities. For example, two important processes (and rector units) to be reformed
within the Ministry of Finance relate to information technology (to help support the functioning of the
integrated financial management reforms and better support information technology investments and
operations throughout the government) and procurement (involving the implementation of the recently
approved procurement reform legislation with important potential benefits in terms of cost efficiency and
- 7-



improved transparency). The reforms, which of course will vary depending on the circumstances, are
expected to result in faster processes, reduced costs, less discretionality in decision-making, improved
inter-institutional coordination, and greater transparency. This sub-component seeks to provide the state
reform effort with the capacity to respond flexibly to priority service delivery needs with a high chance of
success and visibility. CERAP expects to respond to additional demands from other ministries for service
reforms using separate sources of external or national funds.
The sub-component would finance technical assistance, training, and lirnited goods purchases to permit a
comprehensive diagnosis of the service and its clients, business reengineering taking into account time,
costs, and value, the training of public employees, and selected investments in information technology
systems and small physical infrastructure. The technical assistance would be provided through a
framework agreement signed between the relevant ministry and UCRESEP, specifying costs, timetables,
results anticipated. As part of these reengineering efforts, a diagnosis of integrity issues would be
conducted for each selected service. Where feasible, such a diagnosis could include a "scorecard" that rates
the respective services in terms of efficiency, effectiveness, transparency, and overall client satisfaction.
This effort would be coordinated with the National Integrity Program as an important tool in changing the
culture of integrity within the public sector.
Project Component 4 - Deepening Public Sector Reform
To achieve its public sector modernization goals, the Government must address several additional
challenges including the consolidation of executive branch restructuring (stemming from Law 290) and the
strengthening of national integrity and fight against corruption, as well as oversight and coordination of the
comprehensive reforms of the state supported by this and other projects.
Implementing the Government Reorganization Law-- The macro reform of the executive branch requires
the governmnent budget to be consistent with Law 290 and requires producing organic and functional
regulations for each agency. Given the budget reductions already promoted by Law 290, deeper
implementation is expected to produce further savings. Further reforms are mandated under the legislation,
especially the preparation of intemal regulations, and additional areas of duplication and inconsistencies
have been noted requiring further adjustments through organization level reforms. These include, for
example, consolidating the regulatory body for natural resources concessions, improving the system of
property titles registration which suffers from organizational confusion and poor coordination within the
executive branch, and deconcentration of selected executive branch operations to regional departments.
This sub-component would finance a small program of technical assistance to agencies, in line with the
priorities of CERAP, to seek additional rationalizations in the macro-structure of the state that offer real
prospects of budget savings and/or increased efficiency and effectiveness. It will also fund a program of
technical assistance to ministries preparing updated operating processes and procedures manuals as
required by the regulations of Law 290.
Strengthening ofpublic sector integrity--Under the Institutional Development project, an anti-corruption
was incorporated to help establish a National Integrity Committee in March 1998 and a comprehensive
National Integrity Plan (NIP) in May 1999. The World Bank Institute contributed significantly to these
efforts as well. Despite achievements to date, continuing efforts are required. Public opinion surveys
conducted in Nicaragua in recent years have revealed widespread perceptions of high levels of corruption
among governmental officials. Responses to combat corruption are constrained, however, by a number of
factors, including: the inadequacy of resources for implementing the NIP; the relative lack of attention
given to integrity in the original design of state reform; and the difficulties of implementation stemming
from the fact that, while the National Integrity Committee is intended to elaborate national goals,
implementation is the primary responsibility of a variety of public sector agencies and actors.
-8-



To help surmount these various obstacles, the proposed project would, in addition to the reforms in
financial management (SIGFA), procurement processes, and human resource (civil service) management
supported in other components, undertake to strengthen integrity through the provision of technical
assistance for the following initiatives:
(i) institutional strengthening of the National Integrity Committee, including support to its Director and
technical personnel;
(ii) continued implementation of key components of the NIP, including (a) implementation of a Code of
Ethics for public servants, including extensive dissemination of the code among governmental agencies;
(b) drafting and/or implementation of various laws stemming from the general principles of the NIP
designed to prevent and control corruption including a Probity Law (the responsibility of the OCG),
which will update requirements for the declaration of assets, an Access to Information Law designed to
enhance the access of the citizenry to information regarding a broad array of governmental decisions,
regulations, services, and a Citizen Participation Law to facilitate and extend citizen participation in the
legislative process as well as through mechanisms of popular consultation.
(iii) organization of seminars on corruption and ethics issues with various national stakeholders and
members of civil society. The seminars would aim to promote knowledge sharing and exploration of
international best practices.
State Reform Implementation--The state reform coordinating unit (UCRESEP) has been empowered
through Presidential Decree 44-94 and 10-98 to: (a) give technical and operational assistance to the
execution of all public sector modemization efforts under the guidance of the Executive Secretary of the
Committee for Reform of Public Administration (CERAP); (b) centralize all information and documents
related to the design and execution of state reform; (c) act as a link between this effort and international
organizations; and (d) administer funds for the program. It is overseeing separate agreements with other
donors and is the PCU for IDA's telecommunications project. This sub-component would fund project
coordination, CERAP and UCRESEP operating costs on a declining basis, and the overall evaluation and
monitoring of results.
Indicative             Bank-      °% of
Component                   Sector        Costs      % Of    financing   B Bank-
(US$M)  .  =Total    (US$M)   nc
1. Extending Integrated Financial  Public Financial   15.33       54.5     10.29       49.2
Management (SIGFA)                 Management
2. Expanding Civil Service Reform  Civil Service       2.30        8.2       1.92       9.2
Reform
3. Strengthening Economic          Economic            7.86       27.9       6.60      31.6
Management                         Management
4. Deepening Public Sector Reform  Institutional       2.66        9.4       2.09      10.0
Development
Total Project Costs                   28.15      100.0     20.90      100.0
Total Financing Required                    28.15      100.0     20.90      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Establishing an integrated financial management system throughout the central government;
Extending modern, merit based human resource management throughout the central government;
-9-



Strengthening economic and financial planning, policy formulation, and execution agencies and services;
Consolidating the regulatory framework for the new executive branch organization; and Promoting
anti-corruption initiatives.
3. Benefits and target population:
Effective implementation of the project would have the following benefits: (i) qualitative improvement in
the efficiency, effectiveness, and transparency of financial operations throughout the central government;
(ii) better selected, managed, and performing public employees; (iii) strengthened macroeconomic, public
investment, and fiscal policy formulation, inter-agency co-ordination, problem solving capabilities, and
service delivery; and (iv) a more streamlined and transparent public sector. The target populations in the
short term would include central govermnent entities and users of government services including citizens
and private enterprises. The resulting improvements in government effectiveness, efficiency, and
transparency would ultimately benefit the entire population.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period: Three years: 2000 - 2002
Project Implementation and Coordination: The project will extend the ongoing public sector reform
program under the general oversight of the cabinet level Executive Committee for the Reform of Public
Administration (CERAP), which is coordinated by the Vice President of the Republic. CERAP is
responsible for the strategic planning of public sector reform, and its Executive Secretary supervises and
monitors its implementation. The Coordinating Unit for Public Sector Reform (UCRESEP) gives technical
support to CERAP, and serves as a link between project components and external financiers, as well as
administering funds. UCRESEP was created by Presidential Decree in 1994 and is executing the current
Institutional Development project. It has a trained staff, substantial experience in the supervision of
consultants, procurement activities, and the oversight and coordination of various reform components. The
Director of UCRESEP is responsible for technical operational support for reform initiatives. Separate
component managers will provide technical expertise and oversee day to day project implementation in
close coordination with UCRESEP, which will provide support on procurement and contract supervision,
financial management, and overall project integration. At the request of the authorities, and for the purpose
of promoting ownership and the most rapid execution of the integrated financial management component
which is linked to the achievement of H!PC targets, the project executing unit within the Ministry of
Finance will be upgraded in order to be responsible for all of its physical, financial, and procurement
operations. This unit would provide regular Project Management Reports to UCRESEP for consolidation
with the remainder of the project, and to the World Bank for disbursement of credit funds to be held in a
separate Special Account. It would begin handling its procurement and other project/credit responsibilities
once the Bank, through an assessment of its financial and procurement systems, is satisfied that the unit
meets necessary requirements. Overall project finances and audits, including from this unit, will be
consolidated at UCRESEP.
Accounting, Financial Reporting, and Auditing Arrangements: Each of the entities in charge of managing
project resources will maintain separate project records and will periodically report to UCRESEP on those
resources. Such records will be maintained in order to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures of each project activity. Implementing entities will be
staffed at all times with qualified financial and accounting professionals. Adequate financial management
arrangements for the project will be included in the Operations Manual. UCRESEP will prepare combined
financial statements for the project as a whole. The project accounts maintained by UCRESEP and all the
other executing entities will be audited periodically by independent and qualified auditors acceptable to
- 1 0 -



IDA, and in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and the guidance provided in the
"Guidelines and Terms of Reference for Audits of Project with Financing by the World Bank in the Latin
America and Caribbean Region" (the Guidelines) and other guidance. The auditors will be in place by
project effectiveness and before the beginning of each year to be audited, and will perform interim audit
work every quarter. All implementing entities will submit their audited financial statements in a timely
manner so that UCRESEP can submit to IDA a certified copy of the agreed audit reports no later than four
months after the end of each year.
In order to be in full compliance with the revised Bank requirements per OP/BP 10.02, UCRESEP and the
executing entities will implement planning, budgeting, accounting and reporting systems that substantially
satisfy the needs of the project. Also, Project Management has agreed to take the actions needed to have an
integrated system which will allow for PMR-based disbursements. Traditional disbursement methods will
be used for the first two quarters of the project if, due to valid reasons, such system is not in place by the
loan effectiveness date.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements. UCRESEP will monitor project execution through a set of key
performance indicators, supported by IDA supervision missions. UCRESEP has provided IDA a plan for
integrating several IDC activities with the new operation. UCRESEP will provide a first year work plan as
a condition of credit effectiveness, and prepare annual work programs prior to each calendar year. Annual
reviews of the project will be carried out not later than March 31 of each year. A mid-term review would
be conducted by March 2001 to assess progress in meeting agreed targets and to identify additional support
as needed. Semi-annual progress reports will be presented to the Bank no later than 30 days after the
conclusion of each calendar semester, starting in 2000.
Co-fmancing. Nicaragua's state reform effort is attracting significant co-financing from international
financial institutions and bilateral donors. The first phase of the integrated financial management reform
effort was co-financed by Sweden (SIDA), USAID and the IDB, in addition to IDA. USAID will
contribute to the second phase of this project component, and possibly UNCTAD and the IMF. Bilateral
resources have supported institutional reforms in the Municipal Development Institute in line with the IDC
project. Bilateral funding is also expected to co-finance at a later point civil service reform, selected
institutional restructuring and targeted services, and portions of the National Integrity Plan. The IMF has
provided technical assistance for the design of the strengthening of the fiscal affairs unit to be supported by
the proposed project.
- 1 1-



D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
There is widespread recognition that Nicaragua must continue the process of structural adjustment
including the building of a good and clean government. The state modernization effort initiated with the
Institutional Development project has made progress in critical reforms in financial and human resource
management reform, restructuring the macro-structure of the state, building the capacity of selected
agencies, and initiating an important anti-corruption effort. As the process is not yet complete, the
Government sees no viable alternative to continuing its efforts at institution building. The investments and
advances made in a modem financial management system cannot be abandoned without significant impact
on efficiency and transparency goals; strengthened fiscal and macro-economic management structures will
help Nicaragua fulfill its commitments under current ESAF and HIPC arrangements and thus to achieve
higher economic growth; and deepening the effort to streamline, strengthen, and reform the performance
culture of key government agencies, and the management of the civil service more broadly, are necessary to
improve the delivery of public services. The scarcity of resources forces difficult decisions on where best
to invest external funding. However, the Government does not believe that there can be sustained growth
and democracy in Nicaragua without creating a well organized, transparent, competent, and small central
government able to respond to short term emergencies as well as longer term development challenges.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
1    i Latest Supervision
Sector Issue        :Prjt                                    PSR) Ratings
-________________________________  L__________._________:__ _  (:Bank-financed   projects  only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Public sector reform, including:   Institutional Development          S             S
Integrated financial management
Institutional restructuring
Civil Service reform
Evaluation of government services
Privatization of selected state
enterprises
Health administration reform       Health Sector Reforn               S             S
Reform of financial system         Financial Sector Adjustment        S             S
Other development agencies
Good Governance                    USAID Project
(co-finances IDA's integrated financial No. 524-0360
management component and includes a
strong municipal development
component)
Integrated Financial Management    IDB Project
(co-finances IDA's integrated
financial management component)
- 12 -



Tax administration reform          IDB Project
Institutional strengthening of the OCG USAID Project, Project
PEFI-Nordic Technical
Cooperation
Institutional strengthening of     Govermnent of Denmark
municipal administration
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons from the Institutional Development project as well as World Bank projects worldwide include the
need for borrower commitment, strong project leadership, and an appropriate macro-economic framework.
As indicated above, senior officials of the Government, including the President, Vice President, and key
ministers are promoting a broad state modernization agenda. A skilled project coordinating unit was
created to support the IDC and it offers credibility and critical institutional memory for this second stage of
the state modernization effort. Nicaragua has been successfully pursuing structural adjustment supported
by a series of IDA credits and IMF agreements. The country is seeking to qualify for reductions in external
debt payments under the HIPC initiative. Project supervision will also be intense, both from headquarters
and from the resident mission.
Applying lessons from the Bank's experience in public sector management is more tentative given the
evolving state of global knowledge of successful public sector modernization projects. The lessons and
behaviors internalized in the developed world after decades or even centuries of experience and governance
experimentation are unlikely to be replicated quickly, even if deemed to be appropriate models. Technical
assistance, duplication of model laws, imported information technology, etc., however necessary, have been
insufficient in many operations to effect a sustainable change in behavior. This project therefore reflects
insights emerging from the 1997 World Development Report and the 1998 Latin America and Caribbean
Region Study " Beyond the Washington Consensus--Institutions Matter". In line with the WDR, the
project:
(i) builds on, and proposes to continue, the redefinition of the role of the Nicaraguan state, by supporting
decentralization, contracting out, and privatization where appropriate;
(ii) seeks to match the role of the state to its capability, in this case a small state with a normative role in
economic development seeking to assure the transparent rule of law, and freeing up such resources as are
available to promote human capital development for the poor;
(iii) builds a better public sector in the remaining core activities by strengthening service delivery through
better human resource management, modernized and transparent financial management, and targeted
interventions in key organizations and services;
(iv) sequencing reforms cautiously by using targeting rector and line agencies, rolling out reforms as
capacity increases. For example, the advances made under the Institutional Development project in
designing and piloting reforms in financial and human resource management will now be applied more
broadly within the central government, and
- 13 -



(v) emphasizing the role of change management to promote a new culture of service delivery within the
public sector and using social communications to better inform the citizenry of their rights and
responsibilities.
All Nicaragua projects in the current portfolio are being implemented in a satisfactory manner. This
reflects considerable efforts by the Government and local project teams, as well as close supervision by
IDA. The recent opening of a resident mission will increase capacity to work with the project team and
maintain satisfactory project implementation.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The strength of the Governments commitment to the project is demonstrated by: (i) successful
implementation to date of the integrated financial management project. Since July 1998 all central
government systems in the rector institutions (Ministry of Finance and Comptroller General Office) operate
only on the basis of the standards and information technology system implemented by the current project;
(ii) institutional strengthening of external auditing by the enactment of new government control and audit
standards, a new government audit manual, and new internal control and audit standards; (iii) passage of
legislation streamlining the macro-structure of government and the implementation of institutional
restructuring efforts in five ministries; (iv) preparation and presentation to the legislature of far reaching
civil service and procurement reform legislation; and (v) a national anti-corruption seminar in February,
1999 (with the support of the WBI a keynote address by President Wolfensohn, and funding from the IDC).
The Government has also pursued, with IDA's support, the privatization of the state telecommunications
company (in part financed by the IDC) and a major restructuring of the broader financial system including
the closing and sale respectively of the two largest state banks.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
Bank support would provide critically needed and timely financing; supply high quality technical advice
based on worldwide and regional experience in public sector reform and modernization, financial
management, economic management, and fiscal policy formulation; convey credibility and transparency to
the reform effort; and promote efficient and effective use of the resources supporting the Government's
program. It will also serve to catalyze the participation of other international agencies and bilateral donors
in co-financing the reform program.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR= %
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
2. Financial (see Annex 5):    NPVUS$ million; FRR = %
Fiscal Impact:
Project Costs: Total project costs are estimated at $28.15 million, of which $20.9 million would be
financed by the Bank; $2.55 million would be financed by USAID; $0.63 million would be financed by
- 14 -



other bilateral donors; and $4.07 million would be financed by the Borrower.
Project Benefits:
The project's institution building features do not make it amenable to a precise calculation of rates of
return. Despite that, the investments in technical assistance and selected information technology
improvements should result in fiscal savings both in the medium and long run. An efficient financial
management system will improve the incorporation into the budget of revenues, improve the allocation of
fiscal resources, reduce irregularities in budget execution, reduce the amount of idle funds, and strengthen
the prospects for greater equity in the allocation of resources between economic and social areas, as well as
regionally within the country. Based on the experience of other countries with successful financial
management reforms, real budget savings can be expected to emerge. Together with a strengthened
external and internal audit functions, this will also enhance the transparency of the financial management
processes and improve accountability of the government to the public. Better management of the
government's human resources, promoted through the civil service reform, should also lead to improved
performance and efficiency gains. Enhanced economic management, policy formulation, and strategic
planning capabilities will help improve the allocation of fiscal resources to priority areas and programs,
strengthen inter-ministerial policy design and coordination, and provide the government with responsive
highly skilled teams for crisis management and problem-solving. Institutional modernization will reduce
the government's operating costs and improve service-delivery within the public sector, to businesses, and
to the general public. The fiscal impact from improved allocation, reduced waste, and better planning and
execution may be significant, as efficiency gains translate into reduced administrative costs for a given
level of output. These in turn will contribute to a better investment climate which is essential for long term
economic growth, the reduction of unemployment, and the improvement of critical social conditions.
3. Technical:
The tasks to be undertaken under this program are demanding, but are feasible in Nicaragua, assuming
continuing political commitment to the current public sector reform program, and appropriate political,
technical, and project management leadership. The proposed program is technically feasible: (i) a
functioning and experienced project administration structure already exists; (ii) the integrated financial
management and civil service components are already advancing with skilled and experienced teams of
project managers and international and national consultants; (iii) economic management and policy
formulation have been given very high priority by top authorities and seasoned professionals appointed to
leadership positions; (iv) a legal framework for public sector reform has been enacted in 1998, covering the
reorganization of the institutional and functional restructuring of entities within the Executive Branch; and
(v) considerable experience developed in the analysis, redesign, and implementation of services.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The bulk of the project would be managed by UCRESEP with the direct participation of beneficiary
agencies in its implementation. Change management teams are established in the agencies undergoing
institutional restructuring and service delivery improvement, and units located in the Technical Secretariat,
and Ministry of Finance will execute their components of the project.
b. Project management:
UCRESEP, as administrator of the current project, has gained significant expertise, and is prepared to
immediately undertake the management and administration of the new credit with some adjustments to its
present structure. The civil service and institutional strengthening components have in place strong project
management and international/national consultant teams, with comprehensive knowledge of the country, its
public sector institutions and leaders, and project and component variables. The Technical Secretariat
- 15 -



already has basic administrative structures and its senior officials have considerable international and
national experience and high-level political support. Technology transfer to nationals during the current
project has been significant, and represents valuable additional support to project management. The
integrated financial management project team, which will establish a small project executing unit, has
already been overseeing the execution of co-financing funds from USAID and IDB, and is therefore
expected to be able to rapidly assume expanded responsibilities under the new credit.
5. Social:
Not Applicable
6. Environmental assessment:               Envirornment Category: C
As the public sector reform program and various of its components are related to public investment
policies, investment project oversight, etc., procedures will include evaluation criteria for environmental
and social factors thereon.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The Ministry of Finance offices responsible for financial management systems, fiscal affairs, and the civil
service, the National Integrity Unit, as well as the leadership of the Technical Secretariat participated fully
in the design of the proposed project. Line agencies, represented by change management teams including
organization leaders, play a key role in the design and implementation of institutional restructuring efforts.
b. Other key stakeholders:
The project has been designed in cooperation with other financiers, including USAID.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Changes in legal frameworks, human resources and incentives, operating policies and procedures, and
information technology systems should have visible positive impacts on service delivery and transparency.
In the cases of integrated financial management and business processes, the reforms become proprietary for
the receiving agencies, implanted through new information technology systems, standards, and procedures
manuals, training received, etc. The current and proposed projects' emphases on technology transfer and
training are critical factors for such sustainability. Improved macro-economic and fiscal policy
management should contribute to better economic performance, building constituencies in the domestic and
external private sector and general public. The proposed anti-corruption initiatives should also increase
citizen demand for sustainably improved public services. In sum, better public sector performance should
create the resource availability, institutional commitment and capacity, and high and mid-level
constituencies and public insistence within the democratic framework for sustaining the reforms.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating         Rilsk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Inadequate number or quality of            M         Extensive and continuous training
financial management staff.                          program.
- 16 -



Line agencies resist implementation of     S        Training, change management and
financial management reforms.                       social communications efforts, creation
of public demand for transparent
government accounts.
Civil service law and prospect for         S        Extensive and continuous training
professional, merit based human                     program, social communications efforts,
resource system undermined by political             creation of public demand for
considerations and/or inability to attract          transparent government operations,
or maintain good staff.                             efforts by Government and donors to
promote and protect independence of
civil service rector agency.
Reforms unsustained due to internal       M         Extensive and continuous training
resistance or special interests pressure.           program, social communications efforts,
creation of public demand for improved
public service delivery, focus on
agencies with track record supporting
change and/or services subject to reform
and public support.
From Components to Outputs
Inadequate commitment and technical       M         Active support of the highest levels of
capacity of government agencies to                  government. National track record of
implement and sustain initiatives.                  state reform since 1990. Citizen
demand for transparent and more
effective government. Qualified project
staff and close coordination with the
Bank.
Inadequate counterpart funding.           M         Fiscal constraints should be eased by
efficiency gains from restructured'
services and reformns in government
financial management. Ongoing ESAF
program.
Overall Risk Rating
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None identified.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Presentation of an action plan for project activities to be carried out during the first project year.
Preparation of project operations manual.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Condition of Disbursements for Component 2: Approval of satisfactory Civil Service Law
- 17-



H. Readiness for Implementation
R 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
S 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
ED 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
E 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
! 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Ronald E. Myers    6                uillermo erry                    D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Team Leader                      Qector ManagerlDirector              Country ManagerlDirector
- 18 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
NICARAGUA: ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
I Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To reduce poverty and income Institutional strengthening    Annual reports of the Ministry Political and economic
inequality by helping     indicators drawn up by      of Finance and SETEC.       stability.
Nicaragua complete the    international cooperation
transition to a market     experts and the Government.                            Government capacity for
economy supported by the                                                          setting and maintaining
strengthening of the public                                                       coherent policy priorities.
sector's institutional capacity.
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:            (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To build a more efficient,  Citizen satisfaction with  Polls on satisfaction with  Government willingness and
effective, and transparent    targeted public services  public services           capacity to set and implement
public sector that facilitates   increased by 10% from base                       policy priorities on a sustained
private sector led growth.    line by end-2002.                                   basis.
OCG financial audits
completed on at least 10   Reports by the Comptroller
agencies by end-2002 of    General
which 5 are unqualified.
10% annual improvement in
budget (financial) execution   Published budget execution
performance in ministries of  reports.
Health, Education, and
Transportation over average of
1997-99 performance.
75% of eligible Central
Government staff incorporated Reports by Civil Service entity
into the Civil Service regime.
- 19 -



Key Perfrnmance
Hierarchy of Obetivesiq         indicators       iMonitring: & Evaluation        Critical Assumnptins
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
An integrated financial and   Single Treasury Account,    Bank supervision reports  Maintenance of cadre of
administrative management  including bank account                              professional finance staff
system functioning in all  management and cash flow
Central Government entities  programming completed and                         Line agency commitment to
operating by mid-2000.    Government reports (OCG    SIGFA system and increased
and Ministry of Finance)  OCG capacity
Local SIGFA implemented in
at least 4 agencies by
end-2000, and all targeted    Published budget execution
central government agencies  reports.
by end-2001.
Internal auditors of each
central government agency
and OCG auditors routinely
using SIGFA information
systems for audit purposes by
mid-2001.
Budget execution information
produced by SIGFA published
and made available to the
public on a quarterly basis,
beginning mid-2000.
A merit based civil service    Human resource management Bank supervision reports  Civil Service law
system established and    system in line with draft                             appropriately implemented
functioning in all Central    legislation established and
Government agencies       fully functioning in all
agencies by end-2002.
Establishment register
operating at the central level  Reports by civil service rector
by mid-2000 and in all    agency
agencies by end-2002.
-20 -



Strengthened macroeconomic Medium term economic,     Bank supervision reports  Restructured and strengthened
and fiscal policy management social, and public investment                     units, rector agencies, and
contributing to improved  program designed for the   Government Economic       service delivery processes
delivery of public services.   period 2001-2004 by SETEC  Program              maintained despite resistance
by end 2000.                                         from special interests and
Fiscal Analysis reports   changes in senior officials.
Internet Node and WEB site
for National Public Investment Budget Proposal
System functioning by June
2001.                     Performance surveys
Establishment of budget
performance indicators by
OAFE and the Ministries of
Health, Education, and
Transportation and
Infrastructure by June 2000,
for 15 additional agencies
June 2001, and 15 additional
agencies by June 2002.
Multi-year budget prepared for
fiscal year 2001.
Preparation of an evaluation
by OAFE of the Nicaraguan
tax structure, including
exemptions and withholding
with the aim of preparing tax
legislation, by March 2001.
Two core processes each
redesigned and information
systems strengthened in
Ministries of Finance,
Transport and Infrastructure,
Industry and Commerce, and
the Environment and Natural
Resources by end-2001 with
an average reduction in costs
and time by 20%, and all
remaining processes
strengthened by end-2002.
Five services improved in
quality (time and costs) by
20% by end-2002.
- 21 -



Improved transparency in  Legislation on Probity, Access Official Gazette
public sector operations  to Information, and Citizen
Participation presented to  Bank Supervision Reports
Congress by end 2001.
Ethics norms implemented by
end-2000.
- 22 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components !      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
1. Extending Integrated   US$ 10.29 million                                    Commitment and technical
Financial Management                                                           and financial capacity of
government agencies to
Completion of Central and                                                       implement and sustain
line agency SIGFA (including                                                   initiatives.
budget, cash management
accounting, public debt                                                         Provision of adequate
administration, procurement,                                                   counterpart funds
government control and audit)
Information technology
Training
2. Deepening Civil Service   US$ 1.92 million
Reform
Capacity building of the rector
and line agencies
Job classification and
personnel registry
Change management and
communications
Training
3. Strengthening Economic US$ 6.59 million
Management
Strengthening macro         US$ 2.49 million
economic policy
formulation-Technical
Secretariat of the Presidency
(SETEC)
Building fiscal analysis   US$ 1.06 million
capacity-Fiscal Advisory Unit
(OAFE)
Strengthening line agencies    US$ 3.04 million
and key services
-23 -



S. Deepeninig Public Sector  US$ 2.09 million
Reformi
Implementing the government
reorganization law
Strengthening public sector
integrity
Project inmplementation
L __   _ _ __24_-
- 24 -



Annex 2: Project Description
NICARAGUA: ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Nicaragua is in the midst of completing a dual transition from a centrally planned to a market economy and
from war and instability to democracy. This process was initiated in 1990 when the Government embarked
on an ambitious stabilization and reform program with extensive support from the international donor
community. Since 1997, the government of Arnoldo Aleman has continued and deepened the reform effort
on several fronts. The Financial Sector Adjustment Credit has promoted the closure or sale of the two
largest state banks and the strengthening of the prudential norms and bank supervision. The state
telecommunications company has been corporatized and is being sold to the private sector, with Bank
support. In the area of public sector management the Institutional Development project has supported the
design and partial implementation of an integrated financial management system, analysis and preliminary
changes in human resource management, and reforms in the macrostructure of government as well as
several key ministries and agencies, as well as support for the initiation of a national anti-corruption effort.
As a result of these and other efforts, private investment has increased significantly in recent years and
GDP growth per capita has been consistently positive.
Nevertheless, a large structural reform agenda remains as half of all Nicaraguans are poor and the country
suffers one of the highest malnutrition, illiteracy and infant mortality rates in Latin America.
Macroeconomic imbalances remain huge, the external debt is equivalent to three times the GDP, and the
business environment still requires considerable strengthening. In late 1998 Hurricane Mitch dealt a strong
blow to Nicaragua through widespread loss of crops, destruction of farmlands and roads, and the outbreak
of epidemics. This is only the latest in a series of natural disasters, which combined with the lingering
legacy of economic decline and mismanagement, means that Nicaragua must continue to stay the course of
stabilization and reform.
As the Government sees private sector-led growth as the best answer for long term poverty alleviation, it
wants to promote private investment by strengthening macroeconomic stability, improving effectiveness
and efficiency in the use of public resources, and improving service delivery to citizens and investors alike.
Specific challenges include the following: (i) the new governmental financial management system being
applied within the Ministry of Finance is not installed throughout the central government agencies; (ii) a
new Civil Service regime being proposed in pending legislation needs to be implemented; (iii) the
formulation, execution, and supervision of macroeconomic, fiscal, and investment policies suffer from
organizational overlap and gaps, poor human resources, and a lack of coordination; and (iv) the agenda for
public sector reform has been increased by recent legislation mandating the streamlining of the state's
macro-structure and efforts to enunciate a national anti-corruption effort.
The project aims to significantly improve the government's economic planning and policy execution
capacity and thus strengthen the framework for improved business confidence, private sector led growth,
and poverty alleviation. Proposed project components would: (i) expand the integrated financial
management (SIGFA) effort currently supported by IDA, USAID, and the IDB, by completing full
implementation of SIGFA in all central government ministries and several key entities; (ii) introduce a merit
based civil service system with a new legal framework established and functioning in all Central
Government agencies; and (iii) implement selected macro and micro institutional reforms targeted on
agencies, services, and activities with the highest anticipated return in terms of improved economic
performance. This includes improving delivery of economic related services in the Ministries of Finance, T
ransport and Infrastructure, Industry and Commerce, and Natural Resources; supporting creation of a
high-level Technical Secretariat in the Presidency to improve the govermnent's capability to formulate and
- 25 -



implement medium term economic and public investment programs and promote consistency of social and
economic policies across ministries; and strengthening the Finance Ministry's ability to analyze, design, and
implement fiscal policy; and (iv) oversee the state reform effort as well as promote cross cutting initiatives
to complete the regulatory framework for the central government's macro-structure and promote a coherent
program of national integrity to combat corruption.
The project, although broad in reach, is unified by the aim of improving the business climate in Nicaragua.
It would essentially complete several initiatives (financial and human resource management as well as
finalizing the restructuring of some agencies) begun under the current Institutional Development project,
while also supporting targeted interventions to improve macroeconomic and fiscal policy design and
national competitiveness.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$15.33 million
Extending the Integrated Financial Management Reform
In 1995 Nicaragua initiated a comprehensive reform of public sector financial management as a critical
building block for improving public sector efficiency, effectiveness and transparency. Supported by the
Bank, USAID, and the IDB, this effort is modernizing the government's budgeting, accounting, cash
management, debt management, public procurement, and internal and external auditing subsystems. These
components are being fully integrated through updated laws and regulations, coherent and consistent
accounts classifications, and simplified uniform administrative procedures, managed by a powerful single
relational database technology system providing on-line, real time information to policy makers, managers
and other stakeholders. Considerable advances have been achieved so far - all core subsystems have been
implemented (with new norms and regulations, standards, procedures and operating manuals), supported by
an extensive training program throughout ministries and other Central Government entities. Modern
information technology systems have been installed in the Ministry of Finance, linking over 220
workstations to the central integrated data base, where all financial transactions of Central Government
ministries and entities have been registered since January 1998.
These advances have permitted the timely production of formal financial statements on a monthly and
quarterly basis since mid-1998, as well as the provision of on-line, real time budget execution information
to decisions makers in the Ministry of Finance. Closing financial statements for fiscal year 1998, produced
by the new system, were delivered to the Minister of Finance during the first week of January 1999, a
significant improvement from previous years when the fiscal accounts were reported with a lag of between
6 and 10 months. Other project achievements include: (i) the creation of a public debt data base
incorporating fully reconciled internal and external outstanding debt and supporting a new debt service
management system; (ii) the implementation of a more efficient cash management system, significantly
reducing the dispersion of funds and Central Government bank accounts by concentrating resources into a
limited number of accounts under the control of the Treasury; (iii) improved control over collected
revenues, incorporating to the national budget not only tax and customs revenues but income from all
funding sources, including external debt and donation disbursements, and revenues collected directly by
ministries and other Central Government entities; (iv) a material reduction in the time taken by the
Government to pay suppliers of goods and services, including a reduction in discretionality in payments
procedures and improvements in the Treasury's payments control and check-printing capabilities; and (v)
the implementation of a data base system supporting the management of Central Government procurement
of goods and services, incorporating a supplier registry, a standard goods and services classification and
catalogue linked to a referential price follow-up facility, and a public bids control subsystem.
- 26 -



The project has also contributed to the drafting of new internal and external audit standards, and was
instrumental in the enactment in 1998 by the Comptroller General's Office (OCG) of the Government Audit
Standards (NAGUN), the Internal Control Standards, the Government Audit Manual, and several specific
government audit guidelines. The reinforcement of the audit capabilities of both the OCG and Internal
Audit Units has been achieved by the implementation of new project-developed organization and operating
procedures, the training of internal and external auditors, and by providing technical and financial support
to a number of OCG audits of government entities. Another important area of project achievement has
been the implementation of an extensive public awareness program on financial management reform,
transparency and anti-corruption issues directed at various public opinion makers such as trade and
industry associations and chambers, universities, and NGO's, through seminars, publications, as well as
paid and invitational radio and TV media coverage. Two annual surveys on citizen perceptions on
corruption have also been completed under this program.
This component would support the implementation of the second stage of the integrated financial
management (SIGFA) project, deepening and extending the reforms in the various financial management
subsystems initiated under the first stage.
Budget reform would focus on: (i) the development of a medium term expenditure framework through the
strengthening of budget formulation capabilities on a multi-year basis throughout the Central Government
(to be pursued in coordination with the Office of Fiscal Affairs within the Finance Ministry); (ii) the
improvement of program execution in key ministries with strong service delivery responsibilities by
developing performance indicators, cost efficient service-delivery targets, and a system for monitoring and
evaluating results; and (iii) better co-ordination of budget and cash management programming in support of
improved allocation of resources for timely program execution.
Cash management reform will focus on: (i) full implementation at the central and ministerial levels of the
cash management system (Caja Unica del Tesoro) developed during the first stage of the project, in order to
achieve a material reduction of cash management constraints on pr6gram execution; (ii) extensive use of
the public and commercial banking system for electronic payments to suppliers and government employees;
and, (iii) strengthening the Treasury's capabilities to issue and service short term paper in money markets to
improve Central Government cash-flow.
Accounting reform will focus on: (i) providing ministries and other Central Government agencies with
on-line, real-time capacity to register their budget, cash, and fixed asset transactions in SIGFA; (ii)
establishing standardized project-accounting systems in ministries and other Central Government agencies
to improve capabilities for determining the cost of service delivery; (iii) updating the registry of the Central
Government's fixed assets (land, buildings, vehicles, machinery and equipment, etc.); and (iv) establishing
standardized asset administration procedures throughout the Central Government.
Public debt administration reform will focus on: (i) improving the registry of debt obligations, in particular
the timely registry of loan and donations disbursements in Central Government accounts; (ii) strengthening
public indebtedness policy formulation capabilities; (iii) establishing on-line links between the debt
management systems of the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank; and (iv) integrating the SIGADE
debt management system (a system developed by UNCTAD) with SIGFA.
Public procurement reform will focus on: (i) implementation of a recently approved law to regulate
government procurement processes including execution of the resulting changes in controls, organization,
operations, and the development of IT systems required for on-line linkage to SIGFA; (ii) strengthening
- 27 -



capabilities for procurement policy formulation and procurement programming throughout the Central
Government; and (iii) implementing specialized systems to manage Central Government inventories, with
on-line linkage to the accounting module of SIGFA.
Government control and audit reform will focus on: (i) strengthening annual audit program formulation
capacities of Central Government internal audit units using SIGFA; (ii) supporting (financially and
technically) the execution of selected internal and external audits in Central Government ministries and
agencies; and (iii) supporting the creation of an information technology module to assist external auditors
to navigate through SIGFA generated information for audit purposes.
New information technology systems will be established in all ministries and several key entities of the
Central Government (the Presidency, the Vice-Presidency, the 12 ministries, the Municipal Development
Institute, the National Assembly, the Electoral Council, the Supreme Court and the Comptroller General's
Office), creating a SIGFA network of approximately 1,000 work stations and servers (including systems
established in the Ministry of Finances during the first stage of the project). SIGFA network operations
would be supported by state-of-the-art telecommunications technology, based on anticipated agreements
between the Ministry of Finance and the national telephone company for the use of fiber optic, digitalized
gateway systems for data and voice-over-data transmission designed during the first stage of the project.
This will permit on-line, real-time linkage between the Ministry of Finance and all other ministries and
agencies, thus representing a comprehensive integrated financial management system for the Central
Government. To promote the sustainability of the SIGFA effort, the Department of Information
Technology within the Ministry of Finance, which is supposed to act as the rector agency for information
technology for the government as a whole and which will become responsible for the functioning of the new
financial management information system developed by SIGFA, will be strengthened through a separate
component of the credit (see Project Component 3, C below).
During this second stage of the financial administration reform, functional and information technology
training will be directed at 10,500 Central Government employees, covering all financial (budget, treasury,
accounting, debt), operating (procurement, asset management), and technological (hardware, software,
telecommunications) areas. Training activities will be complemented by a strong public awareness
program, focusing on the general public and civil society representatives, and providing knowledge and
information on public sector reform goals and achievements, SIGFA's role in improving transparency, and
disseminating information on Central Government budget execution, financial conditions, and service
delivery.
This component will also assist the development of a pilot integrated financial management system for the
municipal sector, based on the SIGFA conceptual model and the adaptation of software developed for
ministries and other Central Government entities. This system would be made available to the Municipal
Development Institute (INIFOM) and municipal governments, on a voluntary basis.
Project Component 2 - US$2.30 million
Deepening Civil Service Reform
Weaknesses in human resource management have long been identified as a major stumbling block to public
sector performance in Nicaragua. Low pay, limited training ad hoc personnel procedures, lack of a legal
framework, politicized rotation of staff, low morale, and limited focus on performance have all undermined
the civil service. Since 1990 the Government has sought to rectify the situation as possible, within tight
fiscal and political constraints. A major accomplishment has been a significant downsizing of staff,
- 28 -



although at first this often resulted in the departure of the best employees. Prospects for significant pay
increases for professional staff remain restricted for the foreseeable future. Despite this important
limitation the Government continues to make important improvements. Under the Institutional
Development project comprehensive human resources legislation has been prepared and submitted to the
Assembly, a management information system designed (SISEC), job classifications efforts piloted, and the
capacity of the Civil Service Directorate within the Finance Ministry strengthened.
The Government is seeking, under the proposed project, to support implementation of the new, more
professional and merit based human resources regime contemplated in the draft legislation (Civil Service
and Administrative Career Law). Approval of satisfactory legislation is a condition of disbursement of this
component. Key sub-components include the following:
Capacity Building of the Rector and Line Agencies-The Public Employee Directorate (DIFUP) in the
Ministry of Finance is relinquishing its operational responsibility for payroll management, and switching to
serve as a rector institution, establishing and verifying compliance with regulations as well as providing
technical assistance to personnel units in line agencies. Technical assistance to that unit, as well as to line
personnel units, is needed to develop the capacity to better meet their new responsibilities in personnel
selection, hiring, training, and performance evaluation. Operational manuals will be developed, and
training on procedures and criteria will support the general system.
Job Classification and Personnel Registry-All positions within the central government (except for the
military and autonomous educational centers) will be evaluated and classified. This painstaking effort is a
necessary first step to establish a functioning merit-based personnel management system. Simultaneously,
a registry of all government employees including their relevant personal and employment data will be
constructed within the already designed personnel management information system (SISEC).
Change Management and Communication-Communicating the new rights and responsibilities of public
employees (both within the government and to citizens) would facilitate achievement of the goals of
increased professionalization and transparency. This effort would explain the need for change, the new
procedures (both transitional and longer term), and the expected results. The program, to be overseen by
the DIFUP would promote internal communications with the aim to promote a positive response by public
employees to the reforms.
Project Component 3 - US$ 7.86 million
Strengthening Economic Management
Strengthening the overall capacity of the government to manage its financial and human resources should
be complemented by targeted interventions to improve the quality of critical services provided by selected
agencies. Priorities will include: (i) the formulation of macroeconomic policy, including public investment
and improved coordination of economic and social programs; and (ii) the formulation, implementation and
evaluation of fiscal policy; and (iii) internal operations and/or services to the public with potential high
impact on investment and economic activity.
A. Strengthening macro-economic policy formulation - Technical Secretariat of the Presidency (SETEC)
(US$2.49 million)
Weaknesses in macro-economic policy formulation, integration, and public investment planning have
hampered the Government's ability to plan and execute coherent policies. Reliance on external agencies
(domestic and external) for such activities leads to inefficiencies, duplication, and lack of ownership. The
- 29 -



Government, with support of the IDC project, designed and proposed far-reaching legislation (Law 290)
approved in June, 1998, which addressed the organization, procedures and competency of the executive
branch of govermment. Consistent with Article 11 of that legislation, the Government is establishing a
Technical Secretariat (SETEC) which will: (i) provide technical advice to the President and the government
at large, and coordinate the economic program as well as a medium term economic development plan; (ii)
follow up policy implementation and evaluate its consistency with the economic program; (iii) monitor
macroeconomic performance; (iv) facilitate consistency of social and economic policies across ministries;
(v) participate in policy formulation on privatization of public enterprises; and (vi) analyze social and
economic policy proposals from each ministry to procure coherence; and (vii) administer the National
Public Investment System. To accomplish this mission, SETEC needs to set up an office of a small core of
highly qualified professionals with experience in economic policy formulation and analysis. At the same
time, SETEC will need external assistance from experts in specialized fields and to build its internal
capacity.
SETEC also oversees the National System of Public Investment (SNIP), composed of the Directorate of
Public Investment (DGIP) and the laws, regulations, data bases, and line agencies involved in such
spending. The DGIP has over the last 18 months developed and issued guidelines for preparing projects
(information requirements, formats, cost estimation, review criteria), revamped the information system that
helps evaluate and monitor projects, and initiated training of line agency staff responsible for the initial
development and assessment of projects. Despite these achievements addition efforts are needed in training
(including basic finance and microeconomics) for line agency staff due to deficiencies in university
preparation and the high levels of rotation by younger and better educated staff. There is a need for
technical assistance to strengthen the professional capacity of the central office and recruit Nicaraguan
professionals, particularly in health, education, transport, and macroeconomics. The authorities wish as
well to improve the SNIP project data bank system with a reporting module for management and analysis;
implement a module for economic analysis and project evaluation similar to the COSTAB; and establish an
internet node and a Web site to better interact with counterparts in line ministries and provide relevant
information to other branches of government and the public in general.
This sub-component will support the startup costs, operational expenses on a declining basis over three
years, training, "twinning" arrangements with similar organizations in the region, as well as external
technical assistance. At the end of the project the SETEC is expected to have created the technical capacity
to fulfill its function and consolidate its institutional prominence to ensure its continuity. By the third year
of the project, the government is expected to be fully responsible for the compensation of SETEC staff.
B. Building fiscal analysis capacity - Fiscal Advisory Unit (OAFE)
(US$ 1.06 million)
Successful structural adjustment in Nicaragua requires major improvements in public sector finances. The
Finance Ministry (MHCP) is officially responsible, under Law 290, for the design and implementation of
fiscal reforms. However, it lacks the institutional capacity to do so properly. Consequently, fiscal
measures taken in recent years were essentially developed by the Central Bank and external financiers. The
Government believes it necessary and appropriate to strengthen the fiscal capacity of the Finance Ministry,
given its long term responsibilities as well as the more immediate needs to design, execute, and monitor
national policies in line with Nicaragua's ESAF and HIPC programs.
This sub-component would help create fiscal policy design and analysis capacity in the ministry and permit
it to act in concert with the Technical Secretariat and Central Bank in macroeconomic policy formulation.
The proposed Fiscal Advisory Unit would aim at: (i) improving fiscal policy planning with a focus on
- 30 -



sustained revenues generation and expenditure efficiency; (ii) preparing multi-year fiscal plans based on
fiscal discipline and improved sector policies with the cooperation of line ministries, the SIGFA project,
and SETEC; (iii) creating and managing an ex-post fiscal policy performance evaluation procedure; and
(iv) providing technical support to senior authorities on other macroeconomic and public finance issues as
requested. The credit will fund technical assistance, information technology, "twinning" arrangements, and
training and operating costs on a declining basis. By the third year of the project, the government is
expected to be fully responsible for the compensation of OAFE staff and OAFE expects to have created the
technical capacity to accomplish its mission and ensure its sustainability.
C. Strengthening Line Agencies and Key Services
(US$3.04 million)
During implementation of the Institutional Development Credit, the state reform authorities pursued a
two prong strategy for organizational reform. At the macro level, the project concentrated on the
revision of the legal framework and of the mission, functions and organization of the Executive Branch.
These efforts led to a protracted and arduous process of discussion and negotiation at the highest levels
of government, which culminated with the approval by the National Assembly in July of 1998 of the
"Ley de Organizaci6n, Competencia, y Procedimientos del Poder Ejecutivo". This law, which sets forth
the new organization of the Executive Branch, represents a significant success for the reform program.
It has succeeded not only in reducing significantly the number of institutions of the Executive Branch,
but towards resolving issues of overlapping missions, unclear boundaries between institutions, and
duplication of functions. The law is already estimated to have produced annual savings of some $5
million beginning in the 2000 budget.
On the other, "micro" front, the project focused on the development and implementation of Institutional
Restructuring Agreements (ARIs) with selected institutions-- the Ministry of Finance (MHCP), Ministry of
Transport and Infrastructure (MTI), Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources (MARENA),
Ministry of Development, Industry and Commerce (MIFIC), Ministry of the Family (MIFAM) and the
Nicaraguan Social Security Institute (INSS) -- and by the municipal development agency, INIFOM. In
each ministry, Change Teams were organized and trained to participate fully in the effort of
structure/functional diagnoses, design of restructuring efforts, negotiation of agreements with CERAP, and
the initiation of change management programs. Some 70 processes within these ministries have been
analyzed (12 in MHCP, 11 in MTI, 9 in MARENA, 19 in MIFIC, 3 in MIFAM), their administrative
structure reviewed, various legal issues addressed (through laws such as the Land and Water Transport
Law), and inter-ministerial coordination improved as in the management and coordination of natural
resource administration. Some of the analyzed and redesigned processes are: (i) budget execution and
modification in the Finance Ministry; (ii) replacement of vehicles (trucks, buses and taxis), renewal of
operation license, and authorization of aerial routes in the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure; (iii)
project management and environmental impact statements in the Ministry of the Environment and National
Resources; (iv) forest concessioning and supervision, mine concessioning, and exploitation of fish resources
in the Ministry of Development, Industry and Comnmerce; and (v) child adoption processes for the Ministry
of the Family. The authorities view the new procedures for the authorization of truck routes, truck permit
renewals, taxi licensing, and ship registration in the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure as tangible
examples of improvements achieved with the support of the institutional restructuring effort.
To build on this program, the proposed second project will target several priority ministries to
restructure and streamline processes and services. Based on the institutional reform diagnoses and
restructuring efforts already initiated, the Government has identified 14 processes and 6 services within
four ministries that in the opinion of those ministries represent critical targets for reform. Whether
termed processes (more internal to the operation of the agency but with clear links to external
- 31 -



effectiveness) or services (with direct interface with citizens or investors), all were selected by the
different ministries on the basis of their potential practical impact on economic activities. The
Ministries of Finance (MHCP), Development, Industry and Commerce (MIFIC), Transportation and
Infrastructure (MTI), and the Environment and Natural Resources (MARENA) are the target agencies.
Their ministers have specifically requested the support of CERAP in their reform efforts based on the
positive results achieved during implementation of the Institutional Development project. The list of
processes and services to be reformed as requested by the ministries is attached below. Two especially
important processes (and rector units) to be reformed within the Ministry of Finance relate to
information technology (to help support the functioning of the integrated financial management reforms
and better support information technology investments and operations throughout the government) and
procurement (involving the implementation of the recently approved procurement reform legislation with
important potential benefits in terms of cost efficiency and improved transparency). The reforms, which
of course will vary depending on the circumstances, are expected to result in faster processes, reduced
costs, less discretionality in decision-making, improved inter-institutional coordination, and greater
transparency. The aim of this sub-component would be to provide the state reform effort with the
capacity to respond flexibly to specific service delivery needs with a high chance of success and
visibility. UCRESEP expects to respond to additional requests from other ministries for service reforms
using separate sources of external or national funds.
The sub-component would finance technical assistance, training, and limited goods purchases to permit
a comprehensive diagnosis of the service and its clients, business reengineering taking into account time,
costs, and value, the training of public employees, and selected investments in information technology
systems and small physical infrastructure. The technical assistance would be provided through a
framework agreement signed between the relevant ministry and UCRESEP, specifying costs, timetables,
results anticipated. As part of these reengineering efforts, a diagnosis of integrity issues would be
conducted for each selected service. Where feasible, such a diagnosis could include a "scorecard" that
rates the respective services in terms of efficiency, effectiveness, transparency, and overall client
satisfaction. This effort would be coordinated with the National Integrity Program as an important tool
in changing the culture of integrity within the public sector.
Project Component 4 - US$2.66 million
Deepening Public Sector Reform
To achieve its public sector modernization goals the government must address several cross cutting
challenges including executive branch restructuring (stemming from the Government Reorganization Law),
national integrity, and oversight of the comprehensive program of state modernization being supported by
this and other projects. Sub-components would include:
A. Implementing the Government Reorganization Law
The macro reform of the executive branch requires the government budget to be consistent with Law 290
and requires producing organic and functional regulations for each agency. Further reforms are mandated
under the legislation, especially the preparation of internal regulations, and additional areas of duplication
and inconsistencies have been noted requiring further adjustments through organization level reforms.
These include, for example, consolidating the regulatory body for natural resources concessions, improving
the system of property titles registration which suffers from organizational confusion and poor coordination
within the executive branch, and deconcentration of selected executive branch operations to regional
departments. This sub-component would finance a small program of technical assistance to agencies, in
line with the priorities of CERAP, to seek additional rationalizations in the macro-structure of the state that
- 32 -



offer real prospects of budget savings and/or increased efficiency and effectiveness. It will also fund a
program of technical assistance to ministries preparing updated operating processes and procedures
manuals as required by the regulations of Law 290.
B. Strengthening of public sector integrity
Under the Institutional Development project, an anti-corruption component was incorporated to help
establish a National Integrity Committee in March 1998 and a comprehensive National Integrity Plan (NIP)
in May 1999. The World Bank Institute contributed significantly to these efforts as well. Despite
achievements to date, continuing efforts are required . Public opinion surveys conducted in Nicaragua in
recent years have revealed widespread perceptions of high levels of corruption among governmental
officials. Responses to combat corruption are constrained, however, by a number of factors, including: the
inadequacy of resources for implementing the NIP; the relative lack of attention given to integrity in the
original design of state reform; and the difficulties of implementation stemming from the fact that, while the
National Integrity Committee is intended to elaborate national goals, implementation is the primary
responsibility of a variety of public sector agencies and actors.
To help surmount these various obstacles, the proposed project would, in addition to the reforms in
financial management (SIGFA), procurement processes, and human resource (civil service) management,
undertake to strengthen integrity through the provision of technical assistance in support of the following
initiatives:
(A)   Institutional strengthening of the National Integrity Committee, including support to its Director
and technical personnel. Such support will assist the Committee in carrying out an extensive program of
activities that will last beyond the current administration, thereby contributing to the sustainability of
anti-corruption efforts in Nicaragua.
(B)    Continued implementation of key components of the NIP, including:
(1)    Implementation of a Code of Ethics for public servants, including extensive dissemination of the
code among governmental agencies. (A draft of the code was prepared by the Integrity Unit staff financed
by the IDC and recently the President sent the draft to the National Assembly for its consideration. Upon
approval by the National Assembly, the provisions of the code would apply to all branches of government).
The code is not intended to replace any existing law that regulates criminal acts, but elaborates general
principles of conduct for all public servants.
(2)    Drafting and/or support for implementation of various laws stemming from the general principles
of the NIP designed to prevent and control corruption. Such laws to be supported by this component of the
project include:
(a)    Probity Law (Ley de Probidad). A key feature of the law (the responsibility of the OCG) will
update requirements for the declaration of assets (patrimony) by public officials. (Existing legislation
substantially predates the provisions of the 1987 constitution in article 130, paragraph 2.) The amended
law will clearly delineate the nature of conflicts of interest, duties and rights, prohibitions and restrictions,
applicable procedures and penalties, etc. Together with an Administrative Litigation Law (Ley de lo
Contencioso Administrativo), it is designed to enhance transparency in the performance of public services
and the proper use of public funds.
(b)    Access to Information Law (Ley de Acceso a la Informacion). This law is designed to enhance the
- 33 -



access of the citizenry to information regarding a broad array of governmental decisions, regulations,
services, etc. The law will outline the processes for requesting information from the government and set
time limits on the delivery of information to those requesting it.
(c)    Citizen Participation Law (Ley de Participacion Ciudadana). While Nicaragua is marked by
extensive citizen participation (e.g., in electoral processes, civil society organizations, etc.), there remains a
need to facilitate and extend citizen participation mechanisms-in the legislative process as well as through
mechanisms of popular consultation, etc. A draft law to amplify and clarify the opportunities for citizenry
participation in public affairs has been presented to the Congress, based on an extensive consultation
process with civil society organizations.
(3)    Organization of seminars on corruption and ethics issues with various national stakeholders and
members of civil society. The seminars would aim to promote knowledge sharing and exploration of
international best practices.
Additional activities in the Plan of Action of the National Integrity Committee will be financed by the
Inter-American Development Bank. Moreover, the government is actively seeking the support of bilateral
donors and the United Nations Development Programme. The current Plan of Action anticipates
expenditures of approximately $1.9 million, of which approximately 20 percent would be supported by the
proposed credit.
C. Project Implementation
The project will extend the ongoing public sector reform program under the general oversight of the cabinet
level Executive Committee for the Reform of Public Administration (CERAP), which is chaired by the
President. The Coordinating Unit for Public Sector Reform (UCRESEP) supports CERAP and supervises
project execution. UCRESEP was created by Presidential Decree in 1994 and is executing the current
Institutional Development project. It has a trained staff, substantial experience in the supervision of
consultants, procurement activities, and the oversight and coordination of various reform components. The
Director of UCRESEP acts as the project director, working closely with the Vice President of the Republic
on a daily basis. Separate component managers will provide technical expertise and oversee day to day
project implementation in close coordination with UCRESEP, which will provide support on procurement
and contract supervision, financial management, and overall project integration. Project records and
accounts would continue to be maintained by UCRESEP as well as the results of monitoring the project
execution.
The Program's Coordinating Unit (UCRESEP) has been empowered through Presidential Decree 44-94 and
10-98 to: (a) give technical and operational assistance to the execution of all public sector modernization
efforts under the guidance of the Executive Secretary of the Committee for the Public Sector Reform
(CERAP); (b) centralize all information and documents related to the design and execution of state reform;
(c) act as a link between this effort and international organizations; and (d) administer funds for the
program. The project will finance two sub-components: (a) project execution and coordinating unit, which
includes CERAP and UCRESEP staff and goods and services for UCRESEP and each project execution
unit; and (b) evaluation and monitoring of results.
- 34 -



Services and Internal Processes To Be Reformed Under Component 3-C
Institution           Services                Processes
Ministry of           Concession, licenses and   Technical and environmental control for transport and
Transportation and     permits for public        infrastructure projects
Infrastructure (MTI)    transport services       Quality control of construction materials
Design of a Division of Administration and Finance (as
model for other ministries)
Administration of design, construction and maintenance
of roadways
Ministry of the      -Approval of environmental   Inter-institutional coordination for the administration and
Environment and        impact studies for        sustainable use of natural resources
Natural Resources      projects related to       Management of environmental projects
(MARENA)               environmental quality
-Licenses and permits for
access to
commercialization and
reproduction of
bio-diversity
Ministry of          -Granting and            * Administration of national systems for technical norms,
Development, Industry   administration of fishing  quality, accreditation, metrology, science and technology
and Commerce (MIFIC)  concessions                Negotiation and administration of international
-Granting and              agreements regarding commerce and investment
administration of mining  Administration of the intellectual property registry
exploration and           Design, execution and evaluation of policies to promote
exploitation concessions  investment and exports
-National information      Administration and procedures for one-stop investment
system regarding foreign  approval window
export markets
Ministry of Finance                              Administration of the public investments registry (in
(MHCP)                                           coordination with SETEC)
Public sector procurement and acquisitions
Information technology
- 35 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
NICARAGUA: ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Local   ~F'oreign       Total
ProjectiCo  Uy Component                 US miio        S Smillion    us $million
Extending Integrated Financial Management                  5.24         8.85         14.09
Deepening Civil Service Reform                             1.37         0.82          2.19
Strengthening Economic Management                          4.79         2.63          7.42
Deepening Public Sector Reforin                            2.40         0.16          2.56
Total Baseline Cost                                       13.80         12.46        26.26
Physical Contingencies                                    0.61         0.87          1.48
Price Contingencies                                       0.06         0.35          0.41
Total Project Costs              14.47        13.68        28.15
Total Financing Required              14.47         13.68        28.15
,iLocal   St;iS 5 Foreign  Total
Project0AV 0000000000 0  Cost00  By 0 < Catory 0  US' '  $mlion    US00 c0$mjifionX   US $million
Goods                                                        1.31          7.40         8.71
Works                                                       0.00           0.00         0.00
Services                                                    10.25          4.43        14.68
Training                                                     1.80          1.85         3.65
Operating Costs                                              1.11          0.00          1.11
Total Project Costs     14.47         13.68        28.15
Total Financing Required     14.47          13.68        28.15
- 36 -



Annex 4
NICARAGUA: ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The project's institution building features do not make it amenable to a precise calculation of rates of
return. Despite that, the investments in technical assistance and selected information technology
improvements should result in fiscal savings both in the medium and long run. An efficient financial
management system will improve the incorporation into the budget of revenues, improve the allocation of
fiscal resources, reduce irregularities in budget execution, reduce the amount of idle funds, and strengthen
the prospects for greater equity in the allocation of resources between economic and social areas, as well as
regionally within the country. Based on the experience of other countries with successful financial
management reforms real budget savings (nominal or real) can be expected to emerge. Together with a
strengthened external and internal audit functions, this will also enhance the transparency of the financial
management processes and improve accountability of the government to the public.
Better management of the govermnent's human resources, promoted through the civil service reform, should
also lead to improved performance and efficiency gains. Enhanced economic management, policy
formulation, and strategic planning capabilities will help improve the allocation of fiscal resources to
priority areas and programs, strengthen inter-ministerial policy design and coordination, and provide the
government with responsive highly skilled teams for crisis management and problem-solving. Institutional
modernization will reduce the government's operating costs and improve service-delivery within the public
sector, to businesses, and to the general public. The fiscal impact from improved allocation, reduced
waste, and better planning and execution may be significant, as efficiency gains translate into reduced
administrative costs for a given level of output. These in turn will contribute to a better investment climate,
which in Nicaragua is essential for long term economic growth, the reduction of unemployment, and the
improvement of critical social conditions.
- 37 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
NICARAGUA: ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Years Ending
June 30
Year 1     Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4       Year 5     Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            8.8        10.5        6.1        1.6        0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs              0.2        0.4        0.4        0.2         0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs           9.0        10.9        6.5        1.8        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Financing               9.0        10.9        6.5        1.8        0.0        0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                    7.3        8.2        4.4         1.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                  1.3        1.4        1.0         0.4        0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                 0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers               0.4        1.3        1.1        0.4         0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                                                                   0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      9.0        10.9        6.5        1.8        0.0        0.0        0.0
_Year        Year 2   _Year 3       Year 4     Year 5     Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Total Project Costs           0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Financing               0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Government                 0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Central                0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries    0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       0.0         0.0
Total Project Financing      0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
-38 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
NICARAGUA: ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Procurement
A capacity assessment of UCRESEP (the Project Coordinating Unit-PCU) ), which would be fully
responsible initially for project procurement, was carried out in September 1999 in connection with IDA's
Telecommunications Sector Reform Project. No assessment of SIGFA's procurement capacity was carried
out at this time, as no procurement organization had been established in SIGFA's Project Implementing
Unit (PIU). As the Government intends to transfer responsibility for procurement implementation to the
Ministry of Finance for SIGFA procurement, it thus was agreed during negotiations that SIGFA would
establish a procurement team and organization satisfactory to the Bank before that transfer will take place.
A capacity assessment of PIU-SIGFA will be carried out when it is established.
As UCRESEP was assessed in the high risk category, close procurement supervision and compliance with
a proposed action plan are required. The following action plan was agreed during negotiations: (i)
UCRESEP would recruit by February 29, 2000 a second procurement specialist with proven qualifications
and experience in procurement; (ii) completion of a Project Operations Manual will be a condition of credit
effectiveness. The manual should include project organization, the responsibilities of each one of the units
involved in the project; the key staff in each unit and their terms of reference, procurement arrangements as
agreed in the DCA, detailed procedures and responsibilities, filing and recording arrangements,
arrangements for procurement audits, procedures for recruitment and selection of individual consultants
(including advertising) and indicative salary levels, a budget and expense program, and a training program
for staff; (iii) initial training in procurement for UCRESEP and other project staff would be carried out at
the launch workshop of the Telecommunications Sector Reform Project and additional training would be
arranged for new staff as they are recruited; and (iv) SIGFA's procurement organization, when established,
should include the appointment of at least one experienced procurement specialist and two staff assistants,
an operations manual similar to the one to be approved for UCRESEP, and record keeping and filing
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
A general procurement plan for the whole project was agreed during negotiations and is available in project
files. A detailed plan for the first year of implementation would be submitted for Bank review by credit
effectiveness. Project procurement activities would be supervised every 6 months. Supervision would
include post-review of not less than 20% of contracts, selected at random, and agreement reached on the
procurement plan for the subsequent 6 months of project implementation.
The project does not envisage financing of civil works. The following are the procurement arrangements
for goods and consultants, which are summarized in Tables A and B below
Goods
Procurement of Goods will follow the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits",
dated January 1995 (revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999). Goods
procured under the project are comprised mainly of computer hardware and software, and office equipment
and some vehicles will be carried out following ICB procedures. Contracts costing less than $150,000 per
contract and up to $2,700,000 in aggregate may be procured following NCB procedures. Off the shelf
purchases costing up to $25,000 per contract and up to $1,500,000 in aggregate may be awarded on the
basis of shopping procedures. Standard bidding documents (SBD) will be used for all international
competitive bidding (ICB). IDA approved documents will be used for national competitive bidding (NCB)
and shopping.
- 39 -



Consultant Services and Training
Procurement of consultant services will follow the "Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (dated January 1997 and revised September 1997 and January
1999). IDA's standard model Request for Proposal (RFP) will be followed. Total expenditures in
consulting services amount to $12.4 million. Of the $3.6 million to be expended through firms, $2.9
million will be contracted through QCBS and $0.7 million through LCS. An estimated $8.8 million worth
of services would be contracted with individuals on the basis of the procedures outlined in Chapter V of the
Guidelines. Of that amount, $1.7 million will be for medium to long term services for day-to-day operation
of the project; $2.5 million for short term information technology for the extension of SIGFA; $1 .7 million
would fund institutional development assignments related to SETEC and OAFE. National professional
staff in these two latter agencies will be financed by the credit on a declining basis (100%, 50%, 0) over
three years with the Government taking responsibility for their sustained funding; and $2.9 million would
be for regular technical assistance for other project implementation. Based on prior experience with the
Institutional Development Project, contracting with individuals would be undertaken for assigmnents not
requiring team work or unified responsibility for ensuring consistency and quality. Training of $3.5 million
will be procured through direct contracting ($0.8 million or 23%) and the remainder based on basis of their
qualifications for the assignment selected through a review of at least three candidates.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method                       1
I   Expenditure Category                          NCBO'S        Other          N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                           4.39           2.64           1.51          0.33           8.87
(3.63)        (2.18)         (1.45)        (0.00)         (7.26)
3. Services                        0.00           0.00          12.41          2.29          14.70
(Consultants)                     (0.00)         (0.00)        (10.55)         (0.00)        ( 0.55)
4. Training                        0.00           0.00           2.92          0.56           3.48
(0.00)        (0.00)         (2.48)        (0.00)         (2.48)
5. Operating Costs                 0.00           0.00           1.10          0.00           1.10
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.61)        (0.00)         (0.61)
Total                           4.39           2.64           17.94          3.18         28.15
(3.63)         (2.18)       (15.09)         (0.00)        (20.90)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2' Under services, includes individual long term consultants for operation of UCRESEP and PIU-SIGFA
($1.5 million) and short term individuals for information technology and institutional work ($ 4.8
million); under training includes $0.8 million to be procured through direct contracting and the
remainder selected through a review of the qualifications of candidates, and under operating costs
includes project recurrent costs not subject to competitive procurement.
- 40 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                                 Selection   Method
Services
Expenditure    QC8S       QBS      SFB       LCS        CQ       Other     N.B.F.  Total Cost
Cateaorv      _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
A. Firms           2.88      0.00     0.00      0.70      0.00       0.00     0.49      4.07
(2.42)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.67)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (3.09)
B. Individuals     0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      8.83       1.80     10.63
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (7.46)    (0.00)    (7.46)
Total   2.88     0.00      0.00      0.70      0.00      8.83      2.29      14.70
(2.42)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.67)    (0.00)    (7.46)    (0.00)    (10.55)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
- 41 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
.ontract Value l11 *  =goyA ';  ;i   0 0P jntContracts Subject to
Threshold        Procurement               PirRve
Expend,ture Categoy  (US$ thousands)Method                     (US$ millions)
1. Works
Not Applicable
2. Goods
>/= 150                   ICB                      4.39
(All ICB will require
prior review.)
< 150                    NCB                       .45
(First 3 contracts will
require prior review.)
</= 25            Nat'l/lnter'l Shopping           .08
(First 3 contracts will
require prior review.)
3. Services
Firms                        >/= 100                   QCBS                      2.88
Individuals                                                                (All contracts will
require prior review.)
>/= 35                    CQ                       4.0
(All contracts >/=35
will require prior review.)
< 100                     LC                   TOR Only
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  $12,000,000
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Each mission to post review not less than 20% of contracts awarded in the previous six months.
1Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-42 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The first phase of the project is estimated to be disbursed over a period of four years in accordance with the
table at Annex 5 laying out the disbursement schedule of IDA funds. Two units will oversee disbursements
(as indicated in the procurement section above, one will be a PIU-SIGFA to be established for the
integrated financial management component, and UCRESEP to handle all other project components). Each
will be responsible for preparing disbursement applications for their submission to IDA. Replenishment
applications for the Special Account(s) will be submitted at monthly intervals, irrespective of the volume of
transactions in any month, or more frequently if needed for adequate cash flow. In order to be in full
compliance with the revised Bank requirements per OP/BP 10.02, UCRESEP and the executing entities
will implement planning, budgeting, accounting and reporting systems that substantially satisfy the needs of
the project. Also, Project Management has agreed to take the actions needed to have an integrated system
which will allow for PMR-based disbursements. Traditional disbursement methods will be used for the
first two quarters of the project if, due to valid reasons, such system is not in place by the loan effectiveness
date.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category         Amount in US$milfon |         Finaineg rcente
Goods                                       7.26                 100% foreign; 85% local
Consulting Services                         10.55                        100%
Training                                    2.48                         100%
Operating Costs                             0.61                   80%,60%,40%,40%
Total Project Costs                         20.90
Total                                      20.90
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursement applications will be submitted on the basis of Statements of Expenditures, while a full PMR
based disbursement system is being adopted, for
(a) contracts which value does not exceed the equivalent of:
US$ 150,000 for goods,
US$ 100,000 for consulting firms and
US$ 35,000 for individual consultants.
(b) all local training programs and incremental operating costs.
All other expenditures in excess of these amounts or of any other type will be fully documented when
submitted to IDA. All consolidated documentation relevant to SOEs, will be available at the PCU for Bank
missions and audit purposes.
Special account:
One or more special deposit account(s), as may be required for the two project units -- will be opened in a
freely convertible currency under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The authorized allocation(s) to
-43 -



the Special Account(s) will be set at a level sufficient to cover about four months of estimated expenditures
eligible for financing by IDA and any other donor whose funds are managed in trust by IDA.
Replenishments of funds will be made on evidence of satisfactory utilization of the previous advance(s) as
evidenced by the documentation submitted in support of disbursement applications. Deposits into the
Special Accounts and their replenishments, up to the Authorized Allocation(s) will be made initially on the
basis of Applications for Withdrawals (Form 1903) accompanied with the supporting and other
documentation specified in the Disbursement Handbook. Once the accounting and financial management
systems of the two units are deemed compliant with LACI requirements, and are certified as such by IDA,
a migration to a LACI type of disbursements may be implemented as described hereafter.
A Bank Financial Specialist has assessed the financial execution capacity of UCRESEP. The Bank and the
PCU have agreed on an action plan to develop the PCU's capacity to prepare quarterly Performance
Management Reports within 12 months. The specialist certified the existence of reliable accounting
systems that allow the preparation of annual financial audits by an external auditing firm, in accordance
with Bank requirements. Following the Financial Specialist's recommendations, the PCU will have to
modify its accounting system to be able to generate financial reports that conform with the requirements of
the LACI disbursement system.
The PCU will implement an Integrated Project Monitoring System, with accounting and financial
information, disbursements, purchasing, procurement, and control of contracts will have to be implemented,
to allow the generation of quarterly programmatic financial reports on the physical advance of each
component, as well as financial information by disbursement category. This system will also establish the
procedures for its own operation and maintenance throughout project implementation. The detail of these
procedures are contained in the Operational Manual.
The PCU will have in place accounting and internal control systems that accord with such accounting
standards or agreed format and that (a) reliably record and report all assets and liabilities and financial
transactions of the project and, as appropriate, the entity, including those transactions involving the use of
Bank funds; and (b) provide sufficient financial information for managing and monitoring project activities.
Once PIU-SIGFA is established in the Ministry of Finance to oversee execution of the integrated financial
management component of the project, a Bank Financial Specialist will assess its financial execution
capacity and agree on an action plan fully in line with that agreed with UCRESEP. UCRESEP will receive
from the PIU financial statements on a regular basis in order to prepare consolidate Project Management
Reports and facilitate project auditing.
-44 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
NICARAGUA: ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Prect Schedule                                      PlannedAt
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  8                         10
First Bank mission (identification)      02/15/99                    02/15/99
Appraisal mission departure               10/01/99                    11/29/99
Negotiations                              10/15/2000                  12/14/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness            02/01/2000                   04/01/2000
Prepared by:
Coordinating Unit for Reform of the Public Sector (UCRESEP)
Ministry of Finance
World Bank team
Preparation assistance:
Peter Gregory (consultant in civil service reform)
Luis Suarez (consultant in Technical Secretariat, OAFE, SIGFA)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Ronald Myers                       Team leader
Roberto Panzardi                  Legal issues/Organizational reforms
Romulo Leon                       Information technology systems
Geoffrey Shepherd                 Lead Specialist-Public Sector Management
Norma Rodriguez                    Procurement
Gisela Durand                     Project costing
Robert Ayres                      Anti-corruption
Roque Ardon                        Project financial management
Sandra Alborta                     Task team assistant
Jim Wesberry                       Peer Reviewer
Mariana Montiel                    Country lawyer
Rosa Estrada                      Procurement Assessment
Daria Goldstein                   Country lawyer
- 45 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
NICARAGUA: ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft Project Procurement Plan
Draft Operations Manual
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Institutional Development project supervision reports
Procurement and Financial Management Capacity Assessments
C. Other
Technical and Financial Proposal for the Second Stage of the SIGFA Project
Conceptual Framework for SIGFA-Local
Ministerial letters requesting reforms of services and processes
Institutional Restructuring Agreements for
Ministry of Finance
Ministry of Industry and Commerce
Ministry of Natural Resources
Ministry of Transportation
Ministry of Foreign Relations
Ministry of the Family
Institutional Development Credit--Bi-annual Report on Advances to June 30, 1999
Government Organization Law (Law 290) and related decrees
Civil Service and Administrative Career Law (draft)
*Including electronic files
-46 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
NICARAGUA: ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions        disbursements
Project ID    FY   Borrower                    Purpose                              IBRD         IDA      Cancel.   Undisb.     Orig  Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 37
NI-PE-40197    1999 GOVERNMENTOFNICARAGUA   FISEIII                                   0.00      45.00        0.00      36.20    -5.23      0.00
NI-PE-52080    1999 MAGFOR                     FORESTRY                               0.00       9.00        0.00       8.56     0,70      0.00
NI-PE-35753    1998 REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA      HEALTH SECT II                         0.00      24.00        0.00      22.56     3.29      0.00
NI-PE-53705    1998 REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA      TRANSPORTII                            0.00      47.40        000       39.85    -5.42      0.00
NI-PE-7777     1998 REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA      FINAN SEC. ADJUSTMEN                   0.00      71.40       0.00       16.19    15.29      0.30
NI-PE-7790     1997 REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA      RURAL MUNICIPALITIES                   0.00      30.00        0.00      10.54    -5.00      0.00
NI-PE-7788     1996 GOVERNMENT OF NICARAGUA   ROADS REHABS & MAINT                    0.00      25.00       0.00       5.95      565       0.00
NI-PE-35080    1995 GOVT. OF NICARAGUA         INSTrrUTIONAL DEV CR                   0.00      23.00       0.00       4 85      0.33      0.00
NI-PE-7783     1995 MINISTRY OF EDUCATION      EDUCATION                              0.00      47.20        0.00      14.45     3.79      7.41
Total:      0.00      32200        0.00     159.15    13.40      7.71
Active        Closed
Projects      Projects         Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):       192.29         623.34         815.63
of which has been repaid:        0.00        233.31         233.31
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:       366.00         385.22         751.22
Amount sold:         0.00           5.62           5.62
of which repaid:       0.00           5.62            5.62
Total Undisbursed:      159.15            0.52        159.67
Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
-47 -



NICARAGUA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 1 -Jul- 1 999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                               IFC
FY Approval        Company                          Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
1998               Frutan                           2.00     0.00     1.00    0.00     0.50    0.00     0.43     0.00
1998               La Colonia                       4.00     0.50     0.00    0.00     2.00    0.50     0.00     0.00
Total Portfolio:          6.00    0.50     1.00     0.00     2.50    0.50     0.43    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00
-48 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
NICARAGUA: ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Latin                                                  9122199
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             America       Low-
Nicaraoua   & Carlb.  Income        Development diamond*
1998
Pooulation. mid-vear (millions)                           4,8       502 .3 S1                       Life expectancy
(INP ner carnta (Atlas method. USS)                      410      3.84n       670
GNP (Atlas method. USS billions)                          2.0     1.978      1 844
Avetaae annual arowth. 1992-98
Poculation /X)                                            28         1.8       1 7
Labor force (%l                                           41        2.3        1 9     GNP                                Gross
Most recent                                                      ~~~~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~per  7primary
Most recent estirmate fiatest vear avaitable. 1992-98                                  capita                          enrnllmmen
Povertv (% of oooulation below nation#l ooverv line)      50
Urban oonulation (% of total DoDulation)                  64         75        31
I if e Pete.tqnrv at hirih evaars)                        AS         70         g3
Infant mortalitv foer 1.000 live births)                  43         32         69
Child malnutrition (9 of children under 5)                12          8 a                         Access to safe water
Access to safe water (9 of Dooulation)                    62         75      . 74
liliteracv (X` of aooulation ace fS+)                     37         13         32
Grossorimarvenrollment (%ofschool-aoe 6 ooDhuln)         103        113        108                  Nicaragua
Male                                                   101           .       13         .         Low-income group
Pemarle                                                104                  1n3
KEY ECONOMtC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997      199$
Economic ratios'
GOP (US$ bitlionsl                              2,2       2 9       2,0        2.1
Gross domestic investmentIGOP                  25.6     16.8       32 2       34.5
Exports of ooods and services/GDP              32A1      11.8      42 8       37.7                      Trade
Gross domestic savinoslGDP                     20.3      13.8      -4.5       -53
Gross national savinoslGDP                     13.9      13.3       -8.0      -5 8f
Current account balance/GDP                    -8.6    -27.5      -30 3      -32.9                      .7  ..
tnterest oavments/GDP                           2.3       0.4       786        7 2      Domestic              -       Investment
Total debt/GOP                                 57.1    271.2      291 0      283 9      Savings
Total debt service/exoorts                     14.6      14.4      31.5        2.2                        a.
Present valuie nf deht/Gnip                                       24 7
Present value of debtlexDorts                     .               410 5
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98     1997       1998   199.-03
!averaoe annual arowth)
Or)P                                  -2.0      2 n       s 1       4 0        A 4                    Nicaragua
GNP ner canita                        -5.7      0 6       68.        3.3       3.8                    Low-income group
Exoarts of ooods and services         -8 3     11.0       4.0       -6 4       7.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997       1998      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDPI                                                                             40
Anricuilture                                   22 A      28.9      33.8       8 34.0
Industrv                                       26.0     23.1       21.6       21.5     20
Manufacturino                                19.2      18.7       15.5      15.1                                               1
Services                                       51.1      48.0      44.5       44.4                   94
Private consumotion                            70.8     52.0       89.9       91.1    -20
General aovernment consumotion                  8.9     34.2       14.6       14.2                - G0D            O  GDP
Imnorts of aoods and services                  37.4      13.8      79.5       77.5
(averacie annuatorowthe                    1977-87  1958-98        1997      1998       Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Aariculture                                    -3.2       4.3        8.3       4.2     4T
Indrostrv                                      -1.4       2 2       fi 7       4 8     30 
Manufacturina                                 -0.4      0.9        3.8       2.1
Services                                       -17        0.5        2.6       3.6
PrivRte. cnnsuimntion                          -7 8       2.1        8.8       9.6      o
General oovernment consumDtion                 17.5      -5.5      -0.7       -0.4                   94   95   9S   97   3
Gross domestic investment                       0.6       6.9      22.2       20.0    15
ImDorts of noods and services                  -0.5       6.2      14.1        7.9              -     Exports    ' -mports
Gross national oroduct                         -2.8       3.4       9.6        6.1
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comoared with its income-aroun averaae. If data are missina. the diamond will
he incomolete
-49 -



Nicarazua
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977     1987       1997       1998       Inflation (%)
Domestic pricesInlto(%
(% change)                                                                                30 -,
Consumer prices                                  11.4    911.9         9.2      13.0      20
implicit GDP deflator                            11.9    523.1         9.2      13.0
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                        o
Current revenue                                     ..    28.8        33.4      35A4              93    94    95    96    97    98
Current budget balance                             ..   -11.9          4.5       7.8                  -- GDP deflator       CP
Overall surplus/deficit                            ..   -18.0         -9.2      -4.2
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                  1977      1987       1997       1998      Export and Import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                               837      273         704       573      2,0oo
Coffee                                          199       115        116       173
Shrimp and lobster                               22        12         80        79      1,500
Manufactures                                    187        39        279       125
Total imports (cif)                              761       827       1,454     1,508      1000                    *7
Food                                            il1        88        276       344       soo
Fueltand energy                                 103      125         189       131
Capital goods                                   193      242         394       402
92   93   94   95   96   97 98
Exoort Drice index (1995=100)                      64       80          93        90
Imaort orice index (1995=100)                      67       76         106       112                51Exports      Ulmports
Tarms of trade (1995=1001                          96      10f6         88        81
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
fUSS mnillionsl                                 1977      1987       1997       1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%J
Exports of goods and services                    720       302        928        830       0
Imports of goods and services                    841       895       1,471     1,517
Resource balance                                -121      -593        -543      -687      -20
Net income                                        -71     -208        -235      -211I
Net current transfers                               0        a         165       200      -40  
Current account balance                          -192     -801        -614      -699
Financing items (net)                             196      578        672        693
Changes in net reserves                            -3      223         -58         6      -so
Memo:
Reserves includina aold (USS millions)            153      113        383        355
Conversion rate eDEC. local/USSI                  7.0    925.8         9.4      10.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997       1998
lUSS millions)                                                                            Composition of total debt, 1998 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            1,278    7,897       5,887     6,033                          A 15
IBRD                                            75       248         24         15                    0~422       B:487
IDA                                             22        60        368        487
Total debt service                                107       44         349       337
IBRD                                             8         0         20         I1
IDA                                              0         0          4          4                                        D 1,139
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                  2        68        216        107
Official creditors                              68       477         37        178
Private creditors                              116         9          -2         0
Foreign direct investment                       10         0        173        116
Portfolio equity                                 0         0          0          0              E: 3,601
World Bank program
Commitments                                     35         0          0        238      A -IBRD                         E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                   1- IDA                                             D- Other multilateral   F - Private
Disbursements                       ~~~       ~~        ~~~~~17  0  51  105  CMFG - Short-term
Principal repayments                             3         0         18         10      C-IMF
Net flows                                       15         0         33         95
Interest payments                                5         0          6          5
Net transfers                                    9         0         27         90
Development Economics                                                                                                          9/22199
- 50 -



