Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3314-NI
Development Credit Agreement
(Economic Management Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 16, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3314-NI 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated February 16, 2000 between the REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
WHEREAS (B) by agreement dated August 27, 1998, (the USAID Grant Agreement), the 
United States Agency for International Development has agreed to make a grant (the 
USAID Grant) to the Borrower in the aggregate principal amount equivalent to 
$2,400,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in 
the USAID Grant Agreement;  
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 as amended through December 2, 
1997 with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Paragraph (c) of Section 3.04 of the General Conditions is added to read 
as follows: 
“(c)
If the Association shall at any time receive less than the full 
amount then due and 
payable to it under the Development Credit Agreement, the 
Association shall have the right to 
allocate and apply the amount so 
received in any manner and for such purposes under the 
Development 
Credit Agreement as the Association shall in its sole discretion determine.”
(b)
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions is modified by replacing, in the 
second sentence, the word “radiogram” with the word “facsimile” and adding a new 
sentence at the end of said Section to read: “Deliveries made by facsimile 
transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“CERAP” means Comité Ejecutivo para la Reforma de la Administración 
Pública, the Borrower's Executive Committee for Public Administration Reform 
established pursuant to Decree 44 of October 28, 1994, as amended by Decree 10 of 
February 23, 1998;
(b)
“Civil Service and Administrative Career Law” means Ley de Servicio Civil 
y de la Carrera Administrativa, the Borrower’s proposed Law for the establishment of a 
human resources regime for public servants, which it has already presented in draft 
form for approval by its National Assembly; 
(c)
“Eligible Categories” means, in respect of the Special Account for Part A 
of the Project, Categories (1)(a), (2)(a), (3)(a), and (4)(a) set forth in the table 
in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and in respect of the Special Account for 
Parts B, C, and D of the Project, Categories 1(b), 1(c), 2(b), 2(c), (3)(b), 3(c), 
4(b), and 4(c),  set forth in said table;
(d)
“Eligible Expenditures” means, in respect of the Special Account for Part 
A of the Project, the expenditures for goods and services referred to in Section 2.02 
(a) of this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated 
from time to time to said Special Account’s respective Eligible Categories; and in 
respect of the Special Account for Parts B, C and D of the Project, the expenditures 
for goods and services referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to said Special 
Account’s respective Eligible Categories;
(e)
“Indicators” means the indicators set forth in Attachment 1 of the 
supplemental letter from the Borrower to the Association of even date herewith;
(f)
“INRE” means Instancia Rectora del Servicio Civil, the Borrower’s human 
resources management institution within MHCP;
(g)
“Key Processes” means: (i) within MTI (as hereinafter defined): (A) the 
technical and environmental control for transport and infrastructure projects; (B) 
quality control of construction materials; (C) design of a division of administration 
and finance; and (D) administration of design, construction and maintenance of 
roadways; (ii) within MARENA (as hereinafter defined): (A) the inter-institutional 
coordination for the administration and sustainable use of natural resources, and (B) 
management of environmental projects; (iii) within MIFIC (as hereinafter defined): (A) 
administration of national systems for technical norms, quality, accreditation, 
metrology, science and technology; (B) negotiation and administration of international 
agreements regarding commerce and investment; (C) administration of the intellectual 
property registry; (D) design, execution and evaluation of policies to promote 
investment and exports; and (E) administration and procedures for a one-stop 
investment approval window; and (iv) within MHCP (as hereinafter defined): (A) 
Page  3
administration of the public investments registry (in coordination with SETEC, as 
hereinafter defined), (B) public sector procurement and acquisitions, and (C) 
information technology processing by the department of information technology;
(h)
“La Gaceta” means the Borrower’s official gazette;
(i)
“Law 290” means Ley de Organización, Competencia y Procedimientos del 
Poder Ejecutivo, the Borrower’s Reorganization Law published in La Gaceta on June 3, 
1998;  
(j)
“Law 323” means Ley de Contrataciones del Estado, the Borrower’s 
Procurement Law, dated December 2, 1999;
(k)
“Line Agencies” means MHCP, MIFIC, MTI and MARENA; 
(l)
“MARENA” means Ministerio del Ambiente y los Recursos Naturales, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources;  
(m)
“MHCP” means Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público, the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Finance and Public Debt;  
(n)
“MIFIC” means Ministerio de Fomento, Industria y Comercio, the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Development, Industry and Commerce; 
(o)
“MTI” means Ministerio de Transporte e Infraestructura, the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure;  
(p)
“National Assembly” means the Borrower’s legislative branch;  
(q)
“NIC” means the Borrower’s National Integrity Committee; 
(r)
“OAFE” means Oficina de Asuntos Fiscales y Económicos, the Borrower’s 
Fiscal and Economic Advisory Unit;
(s) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.04 of this 
Agreement; 
(t)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(u)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the Project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter of agreement signed 
on behalf of the Association and the Borrower on September 29, 1999;
(v)
“SIGFA” means Sistema Integrado de Gestión Financiera, Administrativa y 
Auditoría, the program carried out by the Borrower for the improvement of the 
financial management of its administration; 
(w)
“Selected Entities” means the Borrower’s Presidency, the twelve (12) 
Ministries, National Assembly, Electoral Council, Judiciary, and Comptroller General’s 
Office; 
(x)
“SETEC” means Secretaría Técnica, the Borrower’s Technical Secretariat of 
the Presidency;
(y) 
“Special Account(s)” means the account(s) referred to in Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(z)
“Statement of Principles of SIGFA” means the principles set forth in 
Attachment 2 of the supplemental letter from the Borrower to the Association of even 
date herewith;
(aa)
“Targeted Services” means: (i) within MTI: concessions, licenses and 
permits for public transport services; (ii) within MARENA: (A) approval of 
environmental impact studies for projects related to environmental quality; and (B) 
licenses and permits for access to commercialization of, and reproduction of, 
bio-diversity; and (iii) within MIFIC: (A) granting and administration of fishing 
Page  4
concessions; (B) granting and administration of mining exploration and exploitation 
concessions; and (C) national information system regarding foreign export markets; 
(bb)
“PIU-SIGFA” means Unidad Ejecutora de SIGFA para el Proyecto, the project 
implementation unit in SIGFA, within MHCP, referred to in Section 3.05 of this 
Agreement; and 
(cc)
“UCRESEP” means Unidad de Coordinación del Programa  de Reforma y 
Modernización del Sector Público, the Borrower’s Reform and Modernization of the 
Public Sector Coordinating Unit established pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree 44 of 
October 28, 1994, as amended by Decree 10 dated February 3, 1998, referred to in 
Section 3.04 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to fifteen million three hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDRs 15,300,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be February 28, 2003 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15  and July 15  in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
Page  5
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 2020 and ending January 15, 2040. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on January 15, 2020 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2 %) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned      
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of United States of America is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through CERAP,  with the assistance of UCRESEP, all with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, administrative, 
economic and public management practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services, required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Indicators, the carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association on or about March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 
31, each year, commencing June 30, 2000, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
Page  6
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; 
(c)
review with the Association by October 31 each year, or such later date 
as the Association shall request, the reports referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
Section; and 
(d)
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of the said reports and the Association’s views on the matter.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower, through CERAP and with the assistance of UCRESEP shall carry out the Project 
in accordance with the operational manual, satisfactory to the Association (the 
Operational Manual), said manual to include: 
(a)
the criteria and procedures for the preparation, review, approval and 
implementation of financial management arrangements;
(b)
detailed procurement and contracting procedures consistent with the 
principles of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, to be applicable to the contracts for the 
goods, and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit; 
(c) 
the internal structure of the UCRESEP, including terms of reference, 
functions and responsibilities for its personnel, the respective responsibilities and 
functions of both UCRESEP and PIU-SIGFA in the implementation of the Project; and 
(d)
the criteria and procedures for the review and approval of withdrawals 
applications to the Association.
Section 3.05. Without limitations to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
carry out, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, an 
implementation plan for the establishment, within MHCP, of a Project implementation 
unit for SIGFA (PIU-SIGFA), with functions, responsibilities, and a financial 
management system in place, in a manner acceptable to the Association, in order to 
enable it, no later than August 30, 2000, or such later date as the Association shall 
agree, to assume CERAP’s and UCRESEP’s role in the execution of Part A the Project. In 
no case shall PIU-SIGFA assume CERAP and UCRESEP role without written Association 
approval and an amendment to this Agreement to reflect such assumption; 
(b)
ensure that, after August 30, 2000 or such later date as the Association 
shall agree, PIU-SIGFA is: (i) headed at all times during the execution of the Project 
by a full time Project director with qualifications acceptable to the Association; and 
(ii) further staffed by key personnel, with functions, responsibilities, 
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association; and 
(c)
cause PIU-SIGFA to furnish CERAP and UCRESEP such information as these 
entities consider necessary to perform their obligations under this Agreement, as 
CERAP and UCRESEP may from time to time reasonably request. 
Section 3.06
The Borrower shall carry out Project activities, during the first 
year of Project implementation, in accordance with the terms of the Project 
implementation plan referred to in Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement.
Section 3.07. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, 
a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Page  7
the Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.08
The Borrower shall maintain adequate policies and procedures to 
permit the efficient operation of SIGFA, in accordance with the Statement of 
Principles of SIGFA, for the achievement of the objectives thereof.  
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of 
this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than 
four months after the end of each such year: 
(A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so 
audited; and 
(B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association 
may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing 
such expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the Project Management Reports or 
statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
November 30, 2000 or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which: 
Page  8
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for 
the Project for the six-month period following the period 
covered by 
said report; and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the six-month 
period following the period covered by 
said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report; and (B) 
explains variances between the 
actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and 
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, as at the end of the period 
covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
Law 290 shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived 
so as to affect materially and adversely the Borrower’s ability to carry out the 
project or to performs any of its obligations under this Agreement.
(b)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
(A)
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the 
USAID Grant, shall 
have been suspended, cancelled or 
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms 
of the agreement provided thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to 
the satisfaction of the Association that: 
(A)
such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused 
by the failure of 
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and 
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other 
sources on terms and conditions consistent 
with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur; and 
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur, subject to the provision of paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Page  9
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
that the Borrower shall have furnished to the Association a Project 
implementation plan, satisfactory to the Association, for Project activities to be 
carried out during the first  year of Project implementation; and 
(b)
that the Operational Manual has been issued by UCRESEP and entered into 
effect.
Section 6.02. The date May 16, 2000 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Frente al Edificio de la Asamblea Nacional
Managua
Nicaragua
Facsimile: 505/222-3033
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Facsimile:
202/676-1464
 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Managua, Nicaragua, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
By /s/ Esteban Duque Estrada 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ulrich Lachler  
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Page  10
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
(a) Goods for Part A of 
   3,820,000
100% of foreign
the Project
expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures
(b) Goods for other Part B      100,000
100% of foreign
of the Project
expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures
(c) Goods for other Parts
     570,000
100% of foreign
of the Project
expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures
(2)
Consulting Services
(a) Consulting Services for   2,140,000
100%
Part A of the Project
(b) Consulting Services for     720,000
100%
Part B of the Project
(c) Consulting Services for   4,270,000
100%
other Parts of the Project
(3)
Training
(a) Consulting Services for     550,000
100%
Part A of the Project
(b) Consulting Services for     350,000
100%
Part B of the Project
(c) Consulting Services for     870,000
100%
other Parts of the Project
(4)
Operating Costs
(a) Operating Costs for
     60,000
80% during the first
Part A of the Project
year following
effectiveness, 60%
during the second year
following effectiveness,
and 40% during the third 
and fourth year following 
effectiveness
(b) Operating Costs for
     50,000
80% during the first
Part B of the Project
year following
Page  11
effectiveness, 60%
during the second year
following effectiveness,
and 40% during the third 
and fourth year following 
effectiveness
(c) Operating Costs for
     340,000
80% during the first
other Parts of the Project
year following
effectiveness, 60%
during the second year
following effectiveness,
and 40% during the third 
and fourth year following 
effectiveness
(5)
Refunding of Project
   1,460,000
Amount due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02. (b) of
this Agreement
TOTAL
  15,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
(c)
the term “Training” means the cost of tuition fees, study tours, travel 
and per-diem of trainers and trainees, training materials, rental of facilities and 
equipment and other costs related to training to be carried out under the Project; and  
(d)
the term “Operating Costs” means the cost of operation and maintenance of 
computers, office and audiovisual equipment, office supplies, local administrative 
staff and other incremental costs related to the administration of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDRs 
1,530,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after December 1, 1999; or 
(b)
payments made for expenditures under categories (1)(b), (2)(b), (3)(b), 
and 4(b) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless the Borrower’s National 
Assembly shall have enacted the Civil Service and Administration Career Law.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditures for expenditures for:  
(a)
goods and services under contracts in respect of which prior review is 
not required in accordance with the provisions of Parts D.2 of Sections I and II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and  
(b)
training and operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
B.
Special Accounts 
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in dollars two separate special deposit 
accounts, in a commercial bank acceptable to the bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.
Page  12
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special 
Account for Part A has been opened, and a Special Account for Parts B, C, and D has 
been opened withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be deposited into said 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3.
Payments out of each Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for any Special Account; or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports. 
5.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Accounts may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of any 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into said Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
any Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in a Special Account.
Page  13
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means:  (i) in respect of the Special 
Account for Categories 1(a), 2(a), 3(a), and 4(a) Part A of the Project an amount 
equivalent to $ 1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; and (ii) in respect of the 
Special Account for Categories 1(b), 1(c), 2(b), 2(c), (3)(b), 3(c), 4(b) , and 4(c),  
Parts B, C, and D of the Project, an amount equivalent to $1,100,000 to be withdrawn 
from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 
of this Annex.
2.
Withdrawals of a Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish said Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of said Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into said 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed said 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into said Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
For replenishment of said Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into said Special Account at such intervals as 
the Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into said Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
said Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into said Special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or 
more of said Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of said Special Account’s 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in said Special Account as 
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
respective Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. Each such deposit into a Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under one or more of said Special Account's 
Page  14
Eligible Categories. 
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into a 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the respective Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the 
amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on 
the Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period 
following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining 
in said Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $2,000,000 in respect of 
the Special Account for Categories 1(a), 2(a), 3(a), and 4(a) for Part A of the 
Project and $2,000,000 in respect of the Special Account for Categories 1(b), 1(c), 
2(b), 2(c), (3)(b), 3(c), 4(b) , and 4(c)Parts B, C and D of the Project.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a)  expand and deepen the modernization 
of the Republic of Nicaragua’s public sector by improving the government’s economic 
planning, policy formulation and execution capacity; and (b) strengthen the framework 
for governance, improvement of business confidence, private sector led growth, and 
poverty alleviation.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Extending Integrated Financial Management Reform
Provision of technical assistance and training required therefore, to:  
1.
extend the financial management reform initiated by the Borrower within the 
public sector, to the following financial management sub-systems: accounting, treasury 
and cash management, procurement, public debt, fixed asset and inventory and human 
resources;   
2.
extend the financial management reform currently operating at the central level 
of the MHCP, to Selected Entities;  
3.
assist in the strengthening of the Borrower’s Comptroller General Office’s audit 
capabilities and of the internal audit units of the Borrower’s central government 
entities;   
4.
assist in the development of a pilot financial management system for the 
municipal sector; and 
5.
carry out a campaign in order to inform the public with respect to the financial 
management reform.
Part B:
Deepening Civil Service Reform 
Provision of technical assistance, acquisition of goods and training required 
therefore to: 
1.
assist in the implementation of the Civil Service and Administrative Career Law; 
2.
strengthen the institutional capacity of  INRE, and the offices in charge of 
human resources within each one of the Borrower’s twelve ministries; 
3.
assist in the evaluation and classification of all staff positions within the 
central government and the creation of a registry of all government employees; and 
Page  15
4.
assist in the development and implementation of a strategy to communicate to 
public employees their new rights and responsibilities.
Part C:
Strengthening Economic Management
Provision of technical assistance, acquisition of goods and training required 
therefore to:  
1. 
strengthen the institutional and technical capacity of SETEC and OAFE; and 
2.
strengthen the institutional and operational capacity of Line Agencies by 
supporting Key Processes and Targeted Services. 
Part D:
Deepening Public Sector Reform
1.
Provision of technical advisory services to assist in drafting priority internal 
regulations necessary to: (a) conform the Borrower’s executive branch structure to the 
requirements of Law 290; and (b) implement Law 323.
2.
Strengthening public sector integrity through: 
(a)
the provision of technical assistance to strengthen the capabilities of 
NIC; and
(b)
the provision of technical advisory services to assist in the: (i) 
drafting and implementation of: (1) an ethic code for public servants; (2) legislation 
aimed to control and prevent corruption; and (ii) organization of seminars and 
workshops on corruption and ethics issues, under terms and conditions acceptable to 
the Association.
3.
Provision of technical assistance for the strengthening of the institutional 
capacity of CERAP and UCRESEP. 
*** 
The Project is expected to be completed by August 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, in September 1997, and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I, and Section III.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
Page  16
The provisions of paragraph 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $150,000 per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount of $2,700,000, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the 
procurement of goods in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph, the Borrower 
shall use standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Association. 
2.
Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $25,000 per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount of $1,500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: 
(a)
each contract for goods procured or selected pursuant to Part B.1 hereof, 
and the first three contracts procured pursuant to Part C.1 hereof, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply; and
(b)
the first three contracts procured pursuant to Part C.2 hereof, the 
following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower 
shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of quotations 
received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower shall provide 
to the 
Association a copy of the specifications and 
the draft contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions 
Page  17
of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for consulting firms, estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for the Project audits may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $35,000 per contract,  
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $35,000; the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(c)
With respect to each contract for auditing services irrespective of 
amount, the terms of reference shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Section III.
Special Provisions
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set 
Page  18
forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all 
procurement of goods referred to in Part C.1 of Section I of this Schedule: 
1.
Bidders shall not be required to register as a condition for bidding. 
2.
The submission of a single bid shall not be a sufficient reason to cancel the 
bidding process. 
3.
The content of the bids and the evaluation report thereof shall remain 
confidential with respect to those not involved in the evaluation process until the 
award of the bid is made. 
