Page  1
July 9, 2002
Mr. Eduardo Montealegre Rivas
Minister of Finance and Public Credit
Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Frente al Edificio de la Asamblea Nacional
Managua
Nicaragua
Re:
The Netherlands Grant for Co-Financing the Economic Management
Technical Assistance Project in Nicaragua
The Netherlands Grant  TF050278
Dear Sir/Madam:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to indicate IDA’s 
agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by The Netherlands Minister for Development 
Cooperation (the Minister), to make a grant in an amount not exceeding three million five hundred 
seventeen thousand nine hundred twenty four United States Dollars ($ 3,517,924) (the Grant) to the 
Republic of Nicaragua (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The 
Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and 
withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by IDA 
of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become 
effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Director, 
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
By /s/ Eduardo Montealegre
Minister of Finance
Page  2
Date: July 9, 2002
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to co-finance the Economic Management Technical Assistance 
Project (the Project) which is partially financed under a Development Credit Agreement entered into 
by the Recipient and IDA on February 16, 2000  (the Development Credit Agreement) as amended 
through 31 October 2001.  The Grant shall partially finance Part A. 2 (“Extending Integrated 
Financial Management Reform”) of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement.  The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given consist in the provision of 
technical assistance, goods, and training required to:  
a)
extend the financial management reform currently operating at the central level of the 
Recipient’s Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, to the Recipient’s Presidency, twelve Ministries, 
National Assembly, Electoral Council, Judiciary, and Comptroller General’s Office; and
b)
carry out audits of the Activities and the Grant as set forth in paragraph 5.1(b)(i) of this 
Annex.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1. The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly 
provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all 
information covering the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall reasonably 
request; (d) from time to time exchange views with IDA' s representatives on the progress and results 
of the Activities; and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable IDA to visit the territory of 
the Recipient for purposes related to the Grant.  Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient 
shall, if IDA shall so request, prepare and furnish to IDA promptly upon completion of the Activities 
a report, in form and substance satisfactory to IDA, on the results and impact of the Activities.
2.2
UCRESEP (
Unidad de Coordinación del Programa  de Reforma y Modernización del Sector 
Público
), the Recipient’s Reform and Modernization of the Public Sector Coordinating Unit 
established pursuant to the Recipient’s Decree 44 of October 28, 1994, as amended by Decree 10 
dated February 3, 1998, shall have the overall responsibility –on behalf of the Recipient- for the 
execution of the Activities and the completion of all other obligations undertaken by the Recipient 
under this Letter Agreement.  
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods and  consultants’ services 
required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall 
be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof 
Page  3
to the place of use or installation, and that any indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely 
usable currency to replace or repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant 
to the Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate practices and 
that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its books in the 
name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Item
(Amount of the Grant
Allocated in USD)
% of 
Expenditures to
be Financed
 (1)  Goods
2,305,892
100% of foreign expenditures, 
100% of local expenditures 
(ex-factory cost)] and 85% of 
local expenditures for other 
items procured locally
 (2) Consultants’ Services
(
including the audits referred to in 
paragraph 5.1 (b)(i) of this Annex)
1,090,829
100%
(3) Training 
121,203
100%
TOTAL
3,517,924
For purposes of this paragraph:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country other 
than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than 
that of the Recipient, and the term “local expenditures” means any expenditures that are not foreign 
expenditures.
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the Recipient or for 
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; and
(c)
the term “Training” means the cost of tuition fees, study tours, travel and per-diem of 
trainers and trainees, training material, rental of facilities and equipment and other costs related to 
training activities not already financed under Category 2. 
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above:
(a)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) in respect of payments made 
Page  4
for expenditures prior to the date of this Letter Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate 
amount not exceeding the equivalent of three hundred and fifty thousand Dollars ($ 350,000) may be 
made in respect of all the Categories set forth in the table in paragraph 4.2 of this Annex on account 
of payments made for expenditures made before the date of this Letter Agreement but after January 1, 
2002; (ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on 
account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of IDA or for goods 
produced in or services supplied from such territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to IDA’s knowledge, is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations;
(b)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after October 31, 2002 or such 
later date that IDA shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date).  However, 
withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if 
the corresponding withdrawal application is received by IDA within four months after the Closing 
Date, after which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall 
be canceled; and
(c)
If, in IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the items in the table in 
paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures for such item, IDA may, by 
written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to 
another item which, in IDA’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by IDA.  
Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Minister of Finance and 
Public Credit or such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied 
by such evidence in support of the application as IDA shall reasonably request.  Authenticated 
specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with 
the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount of the 
Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy IDA that the 
Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be 
used in the carrying out of the Activities.  IDA shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient 
from the Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods and services under contracts in respect of which prior 
review is not required in accordance with the provisions of Parts D.2 of Sections I and II of 
Attachment I to this Letter Agreement; and (b) training expenditures, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient.. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  IDA, at 
the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the currency of the 
Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of 
this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such value shall be 
as reasonably determined by IDA.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and maintain in United 
States Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial bank acceptable to 
Page  5
IDA and  on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Attachment II to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to IDA, 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Activities.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to IDA, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (ii) furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as IDA shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to IDA such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as IDA shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account were 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) maintain or cause to be 
maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after IDA has received the audit report for the fiscal 
year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable IDA’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included 
in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1. IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) 
the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the IBRD) has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals 
under any loan agreement with the IBRD or any development credit agreement with IDA shall have 
been suspended. 
6.2. IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make further 
withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, within 
six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities.
Page  6
Attachment I 
Procurement
Section I
Procurement of Goods
Part A
: General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines 
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and 
revised in January and August 1996, in September 1997, and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) 
the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I, and Section III.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 
of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to 
cost $150,000  equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraph 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall 
apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $150,000 per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount of $200,000 may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the procurement of goods in accordance with the 
provisions of this paragraph, the Borrower shall use standard bidding documents satisfactory to IDA. 
Part D
: Review by IDA of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for 
Page  7
the Project shall be furnished to IDA for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by IDA, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods procured or selected pursuant to Part B.1 hereof, and 
the first three contracts procured pursuant to Part C hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World 
Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, 
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 
3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants 
for consulting firms, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for the Project audits may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $35,000 per contract,  may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Page  8
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, such as drafting of operational manuals to be used in training activities, up to an aggregate 
amount of $260,000 shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by IDA of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for the 
selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to IDA for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection 
of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have 
been approved by IDA, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated to 
cost more than the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the 
third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated 
to cost more than the equivalent of $35,000; the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to IDA for its prior review and approval.  
The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(c)
With respect to each contract for auditing services irrespective of amount, the terms 
of reference shall be furnished to IDA for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Section III
.
Special Provisions
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all procurement of goods referred to 
in Part C.1 of Section I of this Schedule: 
1.
Bidders shall not be required to register as a condition for bidding. 
2.
The submission of a single bid shall not be a sufficient reason to cancel the bidding process. 
3.
The content of the bids and the evaluation report thereof shall remain confidential with 
respect to those not involved in the evaluation process until the award of the bid is made. 
Page  9
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible item(s)" means the item(s) set forth in the table in paragraph 4.2 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
[goods and] services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; 
and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$350,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 
(a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly opened, 
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special 
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, IDA shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw 
from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to IDA 
requests for 
deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as IDA shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to IDA the 
documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Attachment for 
the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of 
each such request, IDA shall, on behalf 
of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have 
been paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by IDA from the Grant Account under the eligible item(s), and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents 
and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at such 
time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to IDA such documents and other evidence showing that 
Page  10
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, IDA shall not be required to 
make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be made by 
the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within the period of time specified in 
paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the 
Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole 
or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant 
shall follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that IDA shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special Account: 
(i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to IDA, the Recipient shall, promptly 
upon notice from IDA: (A) provide such additional evidence as IDA may request; or (B) deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if IDA shall so request, refund to IDA) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless IDA shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by IDA into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to IDA such outstanding amount.
