Page  1
September 8, 1997
His Excellency
Mr. Esteban Duque Estrada
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Frente a la Asamblea Nacional
Managua, Nicaragua
Re:
Japanese Grant TF No. 027084
(Grant for Economic Management Project)
Dear Sir:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to indicate IDA’s 
agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not 
exceeding seven hundred fifty thousand Dollars ($750,000) (the Grant) to Republic of Nicaragua (the 
Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this letter.  The Recipient hereby 
confirms its request that IDA carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to 
contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, dating, 
and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon receipt by IDA of the copy of this 
Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of 
the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
_________________________
Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Director
Central America Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
By:
___________________
(name)  Esteban Duque Estrada
(title)     Minister of Finance
Date:
September 18, 1997
Page  2
To be cleared with & cc: Trust Funds/Accounting
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist in the preparation of the proposed economic management 
project.  The technical assistance activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a)
Preparation of a technical assistance plan to: 
(i)
improve the capacity of the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance and other concerned 
Ministries and public enterprises to prepare and implement public investment 
programs; 
(ii)
improve the capacity of the Recipient’s Central Bank to manage the country’s 
foreign debt; and 
(iii)
create an institutional mechanism to coordinate the Recipient’s programs and 
donor assistance.
Such plan will include inter
alia
,
the needs for training on macroeconomic analysis, 
formulation of sectoral economic policies, identification of advisors needed to create a 
policy coordination mechanism, and software and computer equipment needed to 
formulate and monitor the investment program and to establish a modern debt 
information management system.
(b)
Identification of activities and policies needed to develop rural financial markets 
including, inter
alia
:
(i)
an assessment of the performance of rural markets to be conducted through a 
rural entrepreneurs survey;
(ii)
a study or studies to identify the shortcomings of the legal, regulatory and 
institutional frameworks for secured credit transactions in the rural areas;
(iii)
an assessment of the public registries to determine its adequacy to support a 
national database of claims on asset pledges and an estimate of the investment 
requirements to establish registry facilities in rural locations; and
(iv)
an analysis of the financial viability of, and regulatory framework for, key 
financial intermediaries.
(c)
Carrying out of the studies for:
(i)
a review of the legal and regulatory framework for private sector development 
with emphasis on competition legislation and enterprise restructuring;
(ii)
an analysis of the legislation for private sector participation in infrastructure and 
Page  3
a
review of options for establishing an institutional mechanism to direct and 
coordinate the privatization effort; and
(iii)
an analysis of the flexibility of the labor markets and the effectiveness of 
training programs.
(d)
Provision of advice for the contracting of infrastructure services to the private sector.
(e)
Carrying out of:
(i)
seminars and workshops for legislators, professional groups, affected interest 
groups on subjects related to the activities referred to in paragraphs (a) (b) and 
(c) above, including, inter
alia
,
the role of the state, the development of financial 
markets, economic competitiveness and poverty alleviation; and
(ii)
study tours for staff of the Recipient’s agencies and representatives of the 
legislative assembly, the private sector, labor associations, and other 
stakeholders to acquaint themselves with the competitiveness strategies adopted 
by Asian countries, and the infrastructure privatization policies adopted by other 
Latin American countries.
2.
(a)
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services, consultation meetings, 
seminars, workshops and study tours required for the Activities.
(b)
For purposes of this paragraph, the terms “consultation meetings, seminars, workshops 
and study tours” means the cost of training materials, translation and/or interpretation services, rental of 
facilities, per diem and air travel of participants, dissemination of results and other costs related to the 
carrying out of the meetings, seminars, workshops and study tours mentioned in paragraph 1 (e) of this 
Letter Agreement.
3.
IDA shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The Recipient shall cooperate with 
IDA to the extent necessary to permit IDA to carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to 
evaluate the results of the Activities. The Recipient shall indemnify IDA against any costs or liabilities 
incurred by IDA as a result of claims against IDA in connection with the Activities, except those 
resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
4.
(a)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph 3 hereof, the Recipient shall, through 
its Ministry of Finance, assist IDA in the overall coordination of the meetings, workshops, seminars and 
study tours referred to in paragraph 1 (e) of this Letter Agreement, including inter alia selection of 
participants, site, logistics and dissemination of results thereof.
(b)
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by March 31, 1999.  After that date, 
IDA may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to assist in the 
carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of IDA and shall be done according to 
IDA’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
Page  4
Nicaragua on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel (other than nationals or permanent 
residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request IDA in writing to terminate the Activities. Whether or not 
the Recipient has made such a request, IDA may at any time suspend or, after consultation with the 
Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the 
following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) has made a loan with the guarantee 
of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development 
credit agreement with IDA shall have been suspended.
8.
IDA is not an agent of or trustee for the Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary relationship 
with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant that is not expended by 
IDA pursuant to this Agreement.
