Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23370
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-32050; SCPD-3205S)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$60 MILLION
TO THE
COSTA RICA
FOR A
TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
December 20, 2001
Finance Private Sector and Infrastructure
Country Management Unit - LCC3C
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 12/03/2001)
Currency Unit = Colon (C)
C 320 = US$ 1.00
US$ 3,125 = Cl million
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARESEP        -      Regulatory Authority for Public Services
(Autoridad Reguladora de los Servicios Publicos)
CAC           -      Council for Civil Aviation
(Consejo de Aviaci6n Civil)
CAS           -      Country Assistance Strategy
CGR           -      General Comptroller's Office
(Oficina del Contralor General)
CNC           -      National Council for Concessions
(Consejo Nacional de Concesiones)
CONAVI        -      National Council for Roads
(Consejo Nacional de Vialidad)
CPN           -      National Ports Council
(Consejo Nacional Portuario)
CSV           -      Council for Road Safety
(Consejo de Seguridad Vial)
DGP           -      Directorate of General Planning
(Direcci6n General de Planificaci6n)
DOP           -      Division of Public Works
(Divisi6n de Obras Ptblicas)
ERR           -      Economic Rate of Return
FY            -      IBRD's Fiscal Year (July 1 to June 30)
GDTM          -      General Directorate of Maritime Transportation
(Direcci6n General de Transporte Maritimo)
GTZ           -      German Agency for Technical Assistance
(Agencia Alemana de Asistencia T&nica)
HDM III       -      Highway Design and Maintenance Model - Version 3
IBRD          -      Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(Banco Internacional de Reconstrucci6n y Fomento)
ICB           -      International Competitive Bidding
ICR           -      Implementation Completion Report
IDB           -      Inter-American Development Bank
(Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo)
IMP           -      Investment and Maintenance Plan
INCOFER       -      Railway Authority
(Instituto Costarricense de Ferrocarriles)
INCOP         -      Pacific Port Authority



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
(Instituto Costarricense de Puertos del Pacifi co)
JAPDEVA       -      Atlantic Port Authority
(Junta Administradora Portuaria de la Fertiente del Atldntico)
KfW           -      German Development Bank
(Banco Alema n de Desarrollo)
LCB           -      Local Competitive Bidding
MF            -      Ministry of Finance
MNREM         -      Ministry of Natural Resources, Energy, and Mines
(Ministerio de Recursos Naturales, Energia y Minas)
MOPT          -      Ministry of Public Works and Transport
(Ministerio de Obras Publicas y Transportes)
NCB           -      National Competitive Bidding
NGO           -      Nongovernmental Organization
NPV           -      Net Present Value
PCU           -      Project Coordination Unit
PN            -      National Procurement Office
(Oficina de la Proveeduria Nacional)
RECOPE        -      Petroleum Refinery of Costa Rica
(Refineria Costarricense de Petroleo)
Ro Ro         -      Roll-on, Roll-off Ramp
SAR           -      Staff Appraisal Report
TA            -      Technical Assistance
UNDP          -      United Nations Development Program
VOC           -      Vehicle Operating Costs
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager/Director:    Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Guillermo Ruan
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






COSTA RICA
TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  9
6. Sustainability                                                                     11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    14
9. Partner Comments                                                                   16
10. Additional Information                                                            18
Annex I. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 30
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                      31






Project ID: P006926                                       Project Name: TRANSPORT SECTOR
INVESTMENT
Team Leader: Guillermo Ruan                               TL Unit: LCSFT
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: December 26, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT                    L/C/TF Number: CPL-32050;
SCPD-3205S
Country/Department: COSTA RICA                                           Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: TT - Transportation Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD.  03/05/1987                              Effective:                     07/12/1991
Appraisal:  00/00/0000                                MTR.'                      02/04/1993
Approval:  05/24/1990                              Closing: 06/30/1997           06/30/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA/TBD
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                          Shahid Husein
Country Manager:     D-M Dowsett-Coirolo                        Rainer Steckhan
Sector Manager:      Danny Leipziger                            Ricardo Halperin
Team Leader at ICR:   Guillermo Ruan                            Kuldeep Ohbi
ICR Primary Author:   Adan Cajina (Consultant)
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Transport Sector Project was designed, and its objectives set, in response to a broad governmental
strategy to restore economic growth and fiscal balance. The strategy promoted exports as a guiding
principle, backed the private sector in taking the lead in productive activities, and endorsed savings in
transport services to enhance the competitiveness of Costa Rican products. The transport sector played an
important role in the original formulation of the strategy, considering the hazardous wear of important
transport import/export corridors, the deterioration in port structures and congestion of port operations, and
the waning performance of railway services.
The specific project objectives were to: (a) support the Borrower's efforts to promote exports through, as
part of the Implementation Maintenance Plan (IMP), improving the quality and reliability of transport
services in the Atlantic and Pacific corridors linking the Borrower's ports to its major cities; (b) improve
the efficiency of the use of the Borrower' s resources by strengthening transport sector management; and
(c) rationalize the provision of port and railway services.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project's objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The original project components, which endured significant changes during project implementation, were as
follows:
Institutional Development, Technical Assistance, and Studies
The main institutional measures to increase sector efficiency included assisting the Ministry of Public
Works and Transport (MOPT) with a new sector strategy. This strategy aimed to strengthen the transport
sector, improve port operations, scale down the railway, design a strategy for the maintenance of cantonal
roads, ensure soundness in the sector's annual investment programs, and encourage increased participation
of the private sector.
Road Rehabilitation Program
This program aimed at lowering the transport cost in the national network through the rehabilitation of 458
kilometers of primary roads in the import/export corridors that had entered into accelerated deterioration.
Periodic Maintenance Program
This program included the periodic maintenance of approximately 878 kilometers of roads as part of a
five-year program for national paved roads.
Puntarenas Jetty
The Puntarenas Jetty on the Pacific Coast was to be replaced to handle growing cruise ship and grain
traffic. The old jetty had been taken out of service, as it was in an advanced stage of corrosion, causing
congestion at nearby Port Caldera. Upon completion, the new structure was to serve as a terminal for
cruise-ship traffic, and was to improve grain handling at Caldera.
Equipment and Tools
Equipment and tools were to be purchased for road and railway maintenance, grain handling at Port
Caldera, control of in-transit cargo and road safety, laboratory testing of road materials, and data
processing.
-2 -



3.4 Revised Components:
The project kept its original objectives throughout 10 years and 10 months of implementation. However,
the project's components were revised three times. The sequence of revisions follows:
First Amendment
The earthquake of April 22, 1991 that hit Costa Rica before the project was effective, severely damaged
the road network, railway tracks, and port facilities on the Atlantic Coast, prompting the first revision on
July 19, 1991. The revision introduced an emergency component in exchange for a decrease in the
outcomes of the road rehabilitation and periodic maintenance components. Major work involved the
reconstruction of roads, bridges, and buildings as well as the rehabilitation of rail lines, including the
reconstruction of the Matina bridge, a railway workshop, and housing units for maintenance personnel. The
revision also included dredging in the ports of Lim6n and Moin and the rehabilitation of the port installation
damaged by the earthquake.
Second Amendment
The second amendment of April 7, 1994 closed the emergency component of the first amendment and
transferred emergency civil works that were behind schedule to the original project components. Changes
included the construction of Roll-on Roll-off (Ro Ro) ramp facilities at the Port Lim6n on the Atlantic
Coast and additions to the technical assistance component in response to reform needs within MOPT,
supporting the implementation of the Borrower's law of concession of public works.
Third Amendment
A third amendment on August 2, 1996 introduced a consolidated description of the project and, at the
request of the government, canceled US$12 million from the loan proceeds. Fund cancellation was in
response to slow progress in the procurement process that prevented the completion of the project as
originally planned. This was compounded by a fiscal slowdown and the slim chances of spending the loan
balance before the closing date of June 30, 1997. This amendment introduced as a new component the
construction of truck axle weight facilities in selected places throughout the national road network. Thus,
the Borrower and the Bank agreed on a revised Bank financing amount of US$48 million. After this
amendment, the closing date was called off five times (4 years in total) to persevere in the sector
restructuring and to complete works in process until the final closing date of June 30, 2001. The first two
one-year extensions of the closing date until June 30, 1999, were required to complete several road
rehabilitation subprojects and to finalize the technical assistance work leading to the restructuring of the
MOPT. The additional extensions of the closing date until June 30, 2001, were necessary to advance the
concession efforts for the Port of Caldera and INCOFER, to finalize the studies of three highway
concessions, and to complete the rehabilitation works for one of the roads whose works were delayed
because of legal issues related to the reimbursement to the contractor of taxes paid on imported materials
and equipment.
Deleted Components
As a result of the amendments and agreements reached during project implementation, several components
and subcomponents were deleted from the project. Some of these components were transferred to other
financial sources. The list of main deletions follows:
(1)    The Puntarenas jetty that was built with financing from the Government of Taiwan;
(2)    Reconstruction of the workshops at Moin because of an ongoing plan in 1993 to co-manage the
railroad through a private enterprise;
(3)    Reconstruction of the Matina bridge because of the suspension of railway operations in 1995;
(4)    Grain handlng equipment at Port Caldera because MOPT decided to bid the facilities and
- 3 -



equipment for a concession;
(5)    Tariff and maritime freight assistance to the General Directorate of Maritime Transportation
(GDTM) proceeded according to a law enacted on August 9, 1996. The government transferred
this regulatory function from MOPT to the newly created regulatory agency, Autoridad
Reguladora de los Servicios Publicos (ARESEP); and
(6)    Study of the siltation problem at Port Caldera because related studies recommended measures to
mitigate siltation through extension of the existing breakwater now under construction.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project predates the introduction of the QAG process in the Bank. However, based on the analysis
made during the preparation of the ICR, the quality of entry is rated as satisfactory. The project objectives
were consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy objectives and government policies. Objectives
accounted for intermodal coordination to improve sector efficiency and make optimal use of the existing
facilities. Therefore, they were expanded to a sector approach broader than previous Bank projects
dedicated to roads and highways. These measures addressed key issues to support rehabilitation and
maintenance in the national road network, improve operations at the railway, and establish better services
and timely handling of cargo at the ports. As a result of lessons learned from previous Bank projects, the
strategy was designed to continue strengthening MOPT, improving internal coordination as well as
coordination with outside agencies involved in the project.
In terms of institutional development, the project also addressed the urgent need for updated transport plan
including a detailed master plan for the port subsector; the reorganization of the sector; the launching of
concession efforts in ports and railways; the preparation of feasibility studies for potential road concession
projects; and the provision of technical assistance in investrnent planning, project preparation, and
pavement management. In terms of physical investments, the project was supported by feasibility and final
engineering studies acceptable to the Bank.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the project made significant contributions towards improving the transport infrastructure and
management resulting in satisfactory achievement of the project's objectives. Also, the objectives remained
relevant despite the amendments that were introduced to the loan and the changes in components. The
restructuring of the transport sector was a common factor in achieving the three project objectives outlined
below.
1. Support the Borrower's efforts to promote exports through, as part of the IMP, improving the
quality and reliability of transport services in the Atlantic and Pacific corridors linking the
Borrower's ports to its major cities.
This objective was satisfactorily achieved. The focus on rehabilitation and maintenance of the national
road network improved intermodal coordination and transport services on major export/import corridors.
Overall, 281 kilometers of the paved road network were rehabilitated and periodic maintenance was
provided to 94 kilometers. Several of the links were on the main export/import corridors; for instance,
rehabilitation works were carried out on the road the connects San Jose to the ports of Limon and Moin on
the Atlantic coast; on the 60 kilometer section between Tarcoles and Loma of the so-called "Natural
Corridor" which is the preferred road connection for the countries in Central America; and on the 54
kilometer section of the Panamerican Highway between Rio Convento and Paso Real near the border with
Panama. The investments on roads to the ports were complemented by the construction of a Roll-on,
- 4 -



Roll-off (Ro Ro) ramp at Port Lim6n to improve port operations and reduce port congestion and ship
waiting time, by the dredging works at the Ports of Limon and Moin on the Atlantic coast to allow the
arrival of larger ships, and by the preparation of a Port Master Plan. The project also made investments in
the construction of the facilities and in the procurement of equipment for three of the five axle weight
stations being constructed at key locations on the main road network to discourage the overloading of
trucks and prevent an early deterioration of the network.
The tonnage handled by JAPDEVA at the ports of Limon and Moin increased significantly since the
beginning of the project (Annex 1). In 1990 the two ports handled 2.7 million tons, excluding petroleum;
this increased to 5.1 million in 2000. Also, Caldera has experienced a sustained increase in its grain
handling capacity; the daily tonnage handled by the port has increased from 1,225 in 1990 to 3,700 in the
year 2000.
The project introduced a discipline in working with the implementation of maintenance plans as a sustained
instrument. One of the project goals was to upgrade planning capacity in order to prioritize investment
plans and avoid the diversion of funds from high-priority to low-priority roads. A government commitment
to implement a proposed decentralization plan for cantonal roads (Annex 1), agreed upon at the time of the
loan agreement, was accomplished. This plan was fully financed by the Borrower and the role of the Bank
was to follow up on the agreement by maintaining separate budgeting processing for the two categories of
road networks. In physical terms, the outputs were very modest compared to the original decentralization
plan, but the goal to separate financing in both networks was achieved. Parallel to the project, the German
Development Bank (KfW), through the German Agency for Technical Assistance (GTZ), provided
assistance for the planning and maintenance of cantonal roads with an emphasis on community
involvement. The technical assistance provided training in road maintenance and equipment repair.
As part of the sector reform and supported by law, the responsibilities over Costa Rica's roads and
highways within the transport sector were divided. An independent managing council, National Council for
Roads (CONAVI) was created in 1998 to take full responsibility for the national road network. CONAVI
is responsible for the maintenance, rehabilitation, improvement and construction of the national road
network. At the same time, municipalities now maintain responsibility over the cantonal road network with
the assistance of the Division of Public Works (DOP) under MOPT. In this way, the project was
instrumental in separating investment plans between the national road network and the cantonal road
network, thus improving quality and reliability in services.
2. Improve the efficiency of the use of the Borrower' s resources by strengthening transport sector
management.
With institutional support, the transport sector became more cost efficient, less bureaucratic, and more
effective in making use of the private sector. MOPT was reorganized as a policy-making body within the
sector. Attached to MOPT are independent councils that have taken over responsibility for various
subsector activities. In addition to CONAVI, other councils are: National Council for Concessions (CNC),
Council for Civil Aviation (CAC), National Port Council (CPN), and Council for Road Safety (CSV).
MOPT sets sector policies to be followed by these managing councils. Although further strengthening of
the councils is needed, the result has been improved efficiency in the use of sector resources.
Rationalizing the Provision of Port and Railway Services.
The specific objective to rationalize the ports and railway services was achieved.
- 5 -



Ports
A comprehensive Port Master Plan and dedicated assistance to the port authorities improved efficiency and
promoted coordination within the port sub-sector. Both INCOP and JAPDEVA improved their
management and maintenance practices by, inter alia, reducing redundant positions and training staff. The
new Ro Ro ramp in Lim6n is providing more cargo capacity at the port. This ramp handled in the year
2000 about 230 ships, or about 11% of the ships handled by the port, in spite of the fact that only one side
of the rainp is being used; the other side is being modified to accommodate cruise ships. Even though
tonnage handled at the ports has increased, as shown above, more needs to be done to make the Costa
Rican ports competitive with others in the region. For instance, the time of ships at berth needs to be
reduced and the tariff structure needs to reflect the cost of port operations.
With Bank support, INCOP decided to launch the concession of the ports of Caldera and Puntarenas that
now handle approximately 1.8 million tons per year. At Caldera, the concession package includes the
operation of the existing multipurpose (general cargo) terminal, construction and operation of the grain
terminal, construction and operation of a tuna fish terminal, and the operation of the existing tug services.
At Puntarenas, the sane package includes the operation of the existing cruise terminal. Bids were received
and contracts have been awarded for the multipurpose terminal, the grain handling operations and the tug
services. A decision will be made shortly on how to proceed with the concession of the two remaining
services. The conciliatory and manageable labor environment at the Pacific ports was a good reason to
select Caldera and Puntarenas as the first attempts at port concession. Using the lessons learned through
this concession, the strategy will go forward with the concessions of Atlantic ports, which process more
cargo (5.1 million tons a year excluding petroleum), but have a more difficult labor environment.
The Railway
Despite management and financial weaknesses, the rationalization of the railway is progressing
satisfactorily. Between 1990 and 1995, INCOFER devoted efforts to compliance with conditions agreed
upon at the time of loan signing that covered operational, financial, and labor redundancy targets (Annex
1). Personnel numbers were reduced from 2,303 in 1990 to 1,257 by the end of 1994. As part of the
rationalization effort, in June 1995 a Presidential Decree suspended railway operations temporarily (limited
operations were reopened in 1999), released all but the core staff required to manage the phase-out process,
and launched a concession initiative under the 1994 Concession Law. These measures reduced the
government subsidy to the amount required to compensate the redundant staff and to cover the cost of the
core personnel retained by INCOFER. The subsidy dropped from 1,320 million Colones in 1994 to 200
million Colones in 1996. The initial concession effort failed in part because the 1994 concession law was
not attractive to prospective bidders but efforts have continued under the revised 1998 concession law and
bids have been requested from two qualified consortia.
The reactivation of limited railway operations in December 1999 was aimed at enhancing the concession
prospects. Former INCOFER personnel were contracted and a portion of the former users was regained.
Although the service is limited to a few lines, the revenues from the operation during 2001 have covered the
costs (no govemment subsidy received in 2001).
4.2 Outputs by components:
Institutional Development and Technical Assistance to the Sector
This component is rated satisfactory. Major achievements were as follows:
Transport Sector Restructuring
An initial phase of the restructuring process took place during 1994-96 with the goal to improve efficiency
-6 -



and productivity through a flexible organization and progressive downsizing in personnel with less
bureaucracy. This phase was put into effect with the cooperation of labor unions. Under a second phase,
recommendations emerged for an institutional and integral reform of the transport sector. The end result
was the issuance of the Presidential decree of May 31, 1999 that reformed the organization and functions
of MOPT, as described earlier.
As part of the reorganization process, the Legislative Assembly created CONAVI by a law of June 12,
1998. CONAVI's legal status is an executing decentralized agency, independent in terms of its
administration and finances. A Presidential decree issued CONAVI's by-laws and created a national road
fund with an earmarked tax on fuels (15 percent on fuel). These taxes collected by the Petroleum Refinery
of Costa Rica (RECOPE) yield approximately 25,000 million Colones annually to the Treasury (US$78
million equivalent). The Minister of MOPT heads the council with participation of other Ministries, private
industry, and labor organizations.
Under the reorganization, the Division of Public Works (DOP), after ceding responsibilities for the national
road network to CONAVI, is now dedicated to finding solutions to support municipalities with the cantonal
road network. The DOP provides assistance and support to the municipalities in road conservation and
maintenance in their respective jurisdictions. This assistance will last until the municipalities gradually take
over planning and gain enough financial strength to assume these responsibilities on their own. DOP has
human and equipment resources still available in 12 regional offices and shops around the country. With
the cantonal road inventory well advanced, a new program is forthcoming that will strengthen the
municipalities and increase community participation and the role of the private sector in cantonal road
maintenance.
Support to the Concession Law
This support started in 1994 with steady assistance to sector restructuring and concessions. The May 3,
1994 concession law opened the possibilities of concessions of transport infrastructure. However, potential
concessionaires found the law cumbersome and restrictive and, as a result, the attempts to apply it, failed.
After those failures, this law was derogated and substituted by the concession law of April 2, 1998, which
created a legal framework with a high degree of flexibility to attract prospective bidders. Under this law,
the Legislative Assembly created the National Council for Concessions (CNC) as entity responsible to
promote, bid, award, and sign concession contracts for public works. Since then, CNC has been active in
moving public works concessions. One of the first concessions was the San Jose International Airport, now
operated by a private firm.
The Bank loan supported the concession process from its inception. It financed consultants for the review
of the 1994 law, for the preparation of bidding documents and terms of reference for studies, and for the
execution of several feasibility studies. Feasibility studies were carried out for the concession of three
urban corridors in the city of San Jose, the Braulio Carrillo highway which is main road that connects San
Jose to the Port of Limon (San Jose-Guapiles-Lim6n) and the highway connecting San Jose to Cartago.
The Bank loan has assisted both INCOP and INCOFER in the concession process described earlier.
- 7 -



Enhancing Planning Capacity
One of the components of the project was the implementation of a computerized pavement management
system aimed at improving the planning and programming of road investments skills of the Planning
Directorate (DGP) at MOPT. The pavement management system in conjunction with the use of the
Highway Design and Maintenance Model - Version 3 (HDM III) now allows DGP to (i) evaluate the
condition of the network; (ii) forecast financial needs on a multi-year basis; (iii) optimize budget allocation
under a restricted macroeconomic situation; (iv) prepare annual interventions to be financed by CONAVI
according to network requirements.
Outputs of Physical Components
Road Rehabilitation
A total of 281 kilometers of the national road network was rehabilitated under the project, including 201
kilometers under the normal program and 80 kilometers under the earthquake emergency program. This
figure surpassed the target of 205 kilometers set in the August 2, 1996 amendment.
Periodic Maintenance
The project financed 94 kilometers of periodic maintenance compared to the target of 600 kilometers set in
the August 2, 1996 amendment. However, as shown in Annex 1, the gap in periodic maintenance
expenditures was assumed by MOPT and CONAVI. Together, these institutions provided periodic
maintenance to 992 kilometers. The expectations are that CONAVI will increase the annual expenditures in
road maintenance starting in 2002.
Dredging works at Puerto Lim6n and Moin
This emergency component was satisfactorily completed. After the devastating earthquake disturbed the sea
bed in the port areas, approximately 350,000 and 750,000 cubic meters of bed material were dredged at the
ports of Lim6n and Moin, respectively, restoring the depth of these ports.
Railway Reconstruction
This component was satisfactorily completed. The project supported reconstruction of approximately 52
kilometers of rail lines along the Estrella Valley, location of the earthquake epicenter, and approximately 60
kilometers of rail lines from Port Lim6n to Rio Frio were repaired and aligned. The project financed the
acquisition of crushed stone for rail track reconstruction, rail welding, and spare parts for special
equipment, locomotives, and cranes.
The Ro Ro Ramp at Port Lim6n
This work was successfully completed as a new terminal servicing Ro Ro vessels helped to improve
container operations at the container wharf. Works included the construction of a Ro Ro ramp, a dike and
fill, duke pilots, as well as reconstruction of an existing wharf and electromechanical and communication
equipment. With a berth of 10 meters in depth and 226 meters in length, it is servicing vessels up to 260
meters long.
Construction of Truck Axle Weight Stations in the National Road Network
At closing date, the construction of three truck axle weight stations was 90 percent completed. These
stations weigh traffic in both directions and are located at key points on the national road network. The loan
financed the construction of the stations, including buildings, parking areas and access ramps and the
procurement of equipment comprised of scales, computers, traffic lights, and protective barriers. The
- 8 -



government committed to completing the pending works with funds from CONAVI and to promptly making
these facilities operational.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
An economic evaluation of the initial work program for 7 road links under the project presented an overall
economic rate of return of about 35 percent. The 1991 earthquake caused the reallocation of resources to
higher priority links, namely the primary roads on the Atlantic Coast. MOPT conducted an ex-post
evaluation of 7 of the 18 links rehabilitated under the project (Annex 3). These links show a satisfactory
rate of return that ranges from 33 percent in Javillos-Cruce La Tigra up to more than 100 percent at
Sardinal-Ruta 21 and Aguas Zarcas-Venecia. The work on the paved network helped to integrate
previously isolated rural communities with further improvements in rural roads, penetration of health and
education services, and benefits to agricultural, commercial, and tourist activities.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N.A.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development improved the efficiency of the transport sector. MOPT was transformed as a
normative entity with independent management and sub-sector councils to take over responsibilities for
transport operations. This opened the way for more efficient private sector participation. The transport
sector's capacity is now making the best effective use of limited human and financial resources in planning
and policy-making. MOPT developed a planning capacity by preparing multi-year plans for CONAVI.
Funding was positively impacted by the road fund created exclusively for the needs of the national road
network. In addition to CONAVI and CNC, other managing councils are in the process of being
transformed into independent decentralized councils with a norm to use the private sector to bid for public
works.
The implementation of the Concession Law prompted the preparation of studies focused on public works
concessions. In the ports sub-sector, the impact on institutional development has been important. The
strongest impact of ports rationalization is the operational improvement that now attracts investors. Sector
restructuring within a flexible legal framework has permitted the first port concession package for the
complex Port Caldera-Puntarenas, which has been progressing smoothly. The Atlantic ports were also
affected by the construction of a new Ro Ro ramp, improving trends in import/export cargo, and better
operating performance. Clearly, this is attractive for the next stage of concession.
In the railroad sub-sector, the impact of rationalizing operations will greatly depend on the success of the
concession effort now underway. With the increase in cargo demand by the expansion of industries and the
development of new industries along the import/export corridors, the railway is now attractive to
concessionaires.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Natural Disasters
On April 22, 1991, a major earthquake (7.7 on the Richter scale) hit the Atlantic region of Costa Rica,
extensively damaging the country's physical infrastructure. Roads, bridges, the railway, and the two main
ports of Limon and Moin in the Atlantic province sustained sizeable damage. Approximately 300
kilometers of main roads in the region, including the Lim6n-San Jose corridor, were severely damaged and
cracked, and were subject to devastating landslides. Rail lines between Estrella Valley, a banana growing
region, and Port Lim6n were twisted and unaligned; locomotives and equipment were severely damaged.
-9-



The Ports of Lim6n and Moin also sustained serious damage, with about a 1.5-meter uplift in the sea bed,
and damaged port facilities. The estimated cost to re-establish transportation and land communications,
first on a temporary basis to permit the immediate resumption of fruit exports and later on a more durable
basis to bring the transportation facilities back to their pre-earthquake standards, was approximately
US$53 million. The government obtained grants for approximately US$16 million from donors to
temporarily re-establish transportation flows.
To address urgent needs, the Bank approved the use of US$3.8 million from an ongoing loan 2764-CR,
from the Atlantic Agricultural Development Project, for the rehabilitation of rural roads in the Atlantic
Province. Later, with the first amendment, the Bank allocated US$27.84 million from the US$60 million
loan proceeds to reconstruct the main road and bridges, reconstruct and rehabilitate selected railway
corridors, and undertake of dredging Ports Lim6n and Moin in order to re-establish the designed water
depths as well as rehabilitate the port installations.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Counterpart Funds
The provision of timely counterpart funds was an issue affecting implementation. An account opened at the
Central Bank for purposes of providing timely counterpart funds to expedite payments in local currency,
did not function as expected. Counterpart funds were not always available to match extemal funds,
contractors' payments were delayed, and work often slowed. At times, the scarcity of counterpart funds
made appropriations very competitive, as funds were temporarily diverted from priority works in the
national network to less priority works in the cantonal network. Since 1996 efforts in planning and resource
allocation improved considerably and project implementation pace also improved. However, the issue of
insufficient counterpart funds only ended near the end of the project, when CONAVI substituted MOPT as
the executing agency responsible for the national road network and took over the management of project
contracts in process.
Procurement Procedures
Bidding and contracting affected project implementation with frequent delays at different levels of review
and approval. The dispersion of procurement responsibilities among tbree agencies, MOPT (executing
agency), the National Procuring Office (procurement administrator), and the General Comptroller' s Office
(responsible for contract approvals and ex-ante supervision) required a level of permanent coordination that
was not always present. This process of review and approvals was out of MOPT' s control and became a
source of execution delays. The most common sources of delays that affected works and good contracts
were, among others: lengthy delays in the process of awarding and contracting, voided bids and re-bidding,
late payments to contractors, late opening of letters of credit, appeals of contract awards, slow processing
of claims and disputes, import taxes, and the price adjustment procedures in civil work contracts. Delays
due to procurement persisted throughout the project and procurement was a major risk for the project until
1996. The concession for works and services that was in effect at the end of the project opened the way to
mitigate complex local procurement procedures, as concessions allow better packaging and reduce need of
public procurement of inputs.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
A weakness within the reach of the executing agency was the management of the procurement cycle.
Management was not strong enough to establish adequate coordination within and outside MOPT. The lack
of managerial effectiveness and the slow pace of the review and approval process for bidding and
contracting actually became worse in 1993. At that time, the Bank downgraded the project to a "problem"
project, with management performance rated as unsatisfactory. Management effectiveness improved to a
satisfactory level in 1994. However, project implementation was deemed unsatisfactory until 1996.
- 10-



Staff decision-making within MOPT adversely affected the quality of procurement. One reason was that
staff were dispersed in many different offices, and communication suffered. Designs were not thoroughly
reviewed and, in many cases, the bills of quantities under the contracts required modifications and
amendments to be approved at higher levels, again slowing the process. MOPT engineers were overloaded
with supervising the construction of many simultaneous works. Technical and legal parties did not
judiciously resolve contractors' claims and disputes. In most cases, these issues required the intervention of
the National Procuring Office and General Comptroller's Office.
There were several causes of lengthy delays for some relevant work contracts: the rehabilitation of primary
highways damaged by the 1991 earthquake did not actually start until the end of 1992, because of slow
preparation of final designs; the award of the dredging contract at Lim6n and Moin was appealed and
reached as far as the Court of Justice with an ultimate resolution consistent with the original award; the bid
for the Ro Ro ramp was appealed and later the contract encountered a tax claim; the contract for the axle
weight stations was not completed by the loan closing date because project staff was waiting for a contract
amendment to finish works; the Jaco-Loma rehabilitation contract was not completed by its closing date
because of a tax issue; other rehabilitation contracts experienced claims regarding the use of borrow-pits
and the quality of asphalt; and several road rehabilitation contracts were held up as a result of a discussion
regarding the price adjustment formula in the bidding documents.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Project costs experienced a substantial change due to modifications in project scope and the cancellation of
$12 million from the loan proceeds. The original cost estimate of US$96.9 million dropped to a final cost
of US$74.5 million (Annex 2). Soon after the launch of the project, priority components emerged from the
earthquake, such as emergency rehabilitation works in the Atlantic ports of Lim6n and Moin. By midterm,
the country's policies granted special priority to institutional sector restructuring. At the end of the project,
the technical assistance component, including assistance to concessions, grew to US$9.2 million compared
to the original estimate of US$3.2 million. Investments in port infrastructure amounted to US$10.6 million.
The component most heavily cut was periodic maintenance though the government assumed its completion.
At the end, the Bank financed US$47.3 million and the government contributed US$27.2 million. There is a
loan balance of US$692,151 which will be canceled.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is rated as likely. The reforms made to the sector under the project are in effect and of
a permanent character. A key to sustainability is the separation of responsibilities for the management of
the national road network and the cantonal road network. CONAVI has full responsibility for the former
with funds guaranteed by law. The municipalities have full responsibility for the maintenance of the
cantonal network and, though there is weakness at the municipal level, they receive MOPT support and
assistance in developing strategies for sustainable operations.
The elections of May 2002 will usher in a new government, but expectations are that it will favor the
continuity of current transport policies. Prospects for maintaining project achievements are enhanced by
current policies that are common to both political parties. Moreover, the general policy environment and
legal context-both improved during the project-seem to emphasize road maintenance. What is more,
CONAVI has enjoyed a successful start-up as an institution dedicated solely to to the administration of the
national road network. Another positive sign is the successful operations of CNC with its concession of
Port Caldera and, possibly, of the railways. These works in progress and the strengthening of MOPT as a
- 11 -



transport leader in both policies and planning are the best prospects for sustainability. To maximize
sustainable outcomes, the Borrower should continue to focus on finding new strategies to support the
municipalities in their responsibility to maintain the cantonal road network.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
After the success of this project in promoting public work concessions, MOPT is looking forward to the
development and maintenance of the cantonal road network as well as assuring sustainability in the national
road network. Also the sector needs to follow-up on the performance of the new councils. Japan offered a
grant for the preparation of a new project that would ensure the timely provision of inputs, but MOPT was
late in responding and the offer expired. As a consequence, an eventual preparation will take some time
depending on the availability of resources. Project arrangements will take into consideration legal
provisions regarding the status of MOPT, CONAVI, and the municipalities-all prospective players in a
new project. MOPT will consider alternatives for a sustainable solution to the maintenance of cantonal
roads based on a recent inventory of designated municipal roads. Special consideration will be taken at the
transition stage to create a coordinating unit fully dedicated to the project, staffed with capable employees.
Local institutions directly involved in the procurement process, like the National Procuring Office and the
General Comptroller's Office, should become a part of the transition phase and agree in advance to use the
Bank's standard bidding procedures. Timely attempts could be made to simplify project execution by
allowing executing agencies to do their own procurement without the participation of the National
Procuring Office. In any event, institutions involved in an upcoming project should be familiar with the
Bank's procurement guidelines to harmonize with the Ley de Contrataciones del Estado and to avoid delays
in implementation. Appeals should be avoided with high-quality preparation and thorough review of final
designs and bidding documents. This kind of approach will help to reinforce the quality of the procurement
management cycle that was not strong enough under this project.
Further assistance may be required to consolidate results. With the prioritization of conservation and
maintenance, a new operation may assist the govermment to further decrease the significant gap in road
maintenance in the national network, develop measures to help the municipalities assume their
responsibilities in managing the cantonal network, as well as further sector strengthening.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in lending was rated as satisfactory. Project identification and preparation was
consistent with the government's development strategy and priorities as well as with those of the CAS. The
Bank started project preparation in conjunction with MOPT in early 1987 and, by June 1989, the Bank had
a preliminary definition of a transport project. The Bank's strategy was concentrated on supporting
structural reforms to scale down the size of the public sector, placing increased reliance on market
mechanisms to further open the economy. Under this strategy, project design focused for the first time on
the sector as a whole and ensured that the investment programs were consistent with macroeconomic
policies. In April 1990, the Bank called the government for negotiations and several subjects were agreed
upon, such as: MOPT' s full responsibility for the environmental impact assessment of each subproject;
satisfactory implementation of INCOFER' s contract program in meeting operational, financial, and
staffing targets; participation of the modal agencies in signing subsidiary loan agreements for successful
project implementation; criteria for the development of a transport plan; and the establishment of a project
account for counterpart funds as well as a special account for loan proceeds. Project preparation built on
Bank experience in six previous road projects in Costa Rica, continuing the process of institution building.
- 12 -



7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision was rated satisfactory. Supervision efforts were intensified during periods of crisis.
Just after the earthquake in May 1991, the Bank sent a mission to evaluate the damages in the transport
sector and work together with MOPT and other government agencies in planning emergency contracts for
restoration. The Bank sent supervision missions at least twice a year throughout the life of the project
(Annex 4). By midterm review, the project was proceeding slowly, with only 8 percent of the loan amount
disbursed. The project was declared a "problem" project in 1993 and continued in this status for
approximately a year. The problem project status was removed after intensive supervision that improved
implementation. Disbursements increased substantially after project implementation improved. By 1994,
dredging works at Lim6n and Moin were nearly completed, 12 rehabilitation and maintenance roads were
finalized, and bids were underway for the construction of the Ro Ro ramp at Lim6n.
The supervision effort in the technical assistance area focused on monitoring the restructuring the transport
sector which included downsizing its personnel and reducing force account work; fostering its capabilities
in policy formulation, planning, and monitoring of the transport system; strengthening management
capabilities; creating independent management councils to manage the national road network and
concessions of public works to the private sector; and establishing a special fund (CONAVI) to finance the
needs of the national road network. In the case of works, the supervision efforts contributed to improve
planning and resource allocation to both the national and cantonal road networks.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, Bank performance was satisfactory. At all times the Bank was ready to discuss policies and
options to move the project forward. The Bank influenced the government on yearly action plans to achieve
a clear and efficient distribution of funds between national and cantonal roads and created a mechanism to
budget separate and sufficient funds for both networks. When problems slowed down project
implementation in August 1995, a regional Bank mission met with Costa Rican authorities to discuss
procedures to expedite project execution.
The Bank also supported public sector reform. By the end of 1993 and before the new administration of
May 1994, the Bank discussed such reforms, supporting them as essential for sustainable and equitable
development. Specific to the project, the Bank supported the restructuring of the technical assistance
component in order to adapt it to the government's program for public sector reform including the
concession process.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The govermnent's performance during project preparation was satisfactory. MOPT started project
preparation in 1987 by defining a preliminary sector transport project scope for the transport sub-sectors.
By the end of 1988, the Borrower had prepared the 1991-1995 maintenance plan for the national road
network and a decentralization plan for the cantonal network. At this time, the degree of preparation was
sufficient to open the way to loan negotiations. MOPT and authorities worked closely on project
preparation until project signing and continued thereafter due to changes motivated by the 1991 earthquake.
A new incoming government signed the loan agreement on August 24, 1990, but its effectiveness was not
declared until July 12, 1991.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government's implementation performance ended up satisfactory. Three changes in government, seven
ministerial changes, as well as transitions in project coordinator positions took place during the life of the
project. Yet, despite constraints in implementation, the government complied with outputs, loan agreement
- 13-



covenants, reporting requirements, and environmental safeguards for project components. A notable
exception to compliance was the establishment a local currency account to expedite counterpart payments,
which was never actually used.
Implementation of the road component endured many problems in the face of the rapid deterioration of the
national road network. In addition, the sudden suspension of railway services in 1995 led to new trucking
businesses operating without weight controls, which further damaged road conditions. The government,
however, addressed the road deterioration challenge through the creation of CONAVI and with the
upcoming implementation of a truck axle weight control at five locations on the main road network. Three
of the stations were fmnanced by the loan.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
A capable professional headed the coordinating unit but the staff was not always fully integrated during
project implementation. The unit worked with limited resources and dispersed responsibilities within
MOPT. As a result, the project suffered from inadequate management effectiveness. The procurement cycle
revealed management weaknesses in the areas of procurement planning, sound review of engineering
designs, and contract management. Consequences of these limitations included frequent amendments to
contracts, occasional uncompleted works, and frequent delays in handling penalties and conflict resolution
because of limited coordination between technical and legal teams. Despite these shortages, the
coordinating unit worked satisfactory within its limited resources and regularly submitted progress reports
and updated work programs, maintaining close coordination with the Bank.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory. The government always looked for Bank advice
on policy and institutional matters. With the magnitude of the maintenance problems and growing fiscal
constraints, the government maintained a dialogue with the Bank about prospective solutions. This was the
beginning of a process of transport sector restructuring involving government agencies, consultants, and the
private sector. Regarding implementation issues, on various occasions MOPT entered into discussions with
the National Procuring Office and the General Comptroller's Office to streamline the procurement process.
8. Lessons Learned
Restructuring the Transport Sector
The project outcomes show that major reforms in a sector can be achieved even during difficult times. In
fact, difficult times can promote change. The project contributed to the reform of the transport sector
during a decade of econornic slowdown, fiscal deficits, and progressive inflation-coupled with natural
disasters that adversely affected the economy. Change was slow, but the lengthy process resulted in a
stronger transport sector with policies focused on efficiency. After a lengthy project that overcame many
implementation challenges, the goal of an institutional restructuring of sector authorities was achieved.
Sectoral Approach
Despite the fact that the sector approach of the project added complexity to its implementation because of,
inter alia, the number of institutions involved, the analysis carried out under the project on each of the
subsectors provided a better understanding of the institutional needs of the sector as a whole which in tum
helped in the restructuring process of MOPT.
Enhancing Maintenance Planning with a Dependable Source of Funding
- 14 -



Notably, the project improved the planning capacity for road maintenance and investments both at top
planning levels and operating levels. The project taught that planning capacity requires a dependable source
of funding to steadily sustain investment programs in the national road network. Since the transport sector
was restructured, both MOPT and CONAVI have been coordinating closely to optimize investments,
planning according to financial constraints. The road and highway sub-sector, with definite financial
resources now in place, is in a privileged position to confront the task of maintaining the national network
in an acceptable condition.
A Challenge for the Road and Highway Sub-sector
In spite of the achievements under the project, the road and highway sub-sector still faces a sizeable task in
improving existing road conditions. The project stimulated the transport sector to steadily dedicate itself to
rehabilitation as well as periodic and routine road maintenance. Taking into consideration other transport
modes, there is sufficient infrastructure in place and ample scope to improve operational efficiency and
productivity. At closing date, Costa Rica, with a total road length of 36,400 kilometers, had a density of
0.7 kilometers per square kilometer-similar to that of the United States of America. Of the 7,400
kilometers of national network, 15 percent is in good condition and the remainder is in fair or poor
condition. Twelve percent of the 29,000 kilometers of cantonal road network is in good condition. This
situation remains a significant challenge for CONAVI, as well as for the municipalities in their efforts to
gradually take over responsibility for the cantonal network in their own jurisdictions. It is also a challenge
for MOPT as sector leader to provide sound normns, policies, and optional plans to both CONAVI and the
municipalities as they work to address road maintenance and meet sector objectives.
Rationalization of Railways
The Bank's assistance in rationalizing INCOFER took place at a time when railroad operations were
critical and heavily dependent on government subsidies. A good project practice was providing continuous
support to INCOFER management, and helping with the rationalization process even during suspension of
railroad operations in 1995 and failure in a first concession effort under the concession law of 1994. With
the new concession law of 1998 and the reopening in 1999 of railroad operations for selected and limited
cargo services, INCOFER initiated a new concession process, which is now well advanced with two
capable railway consortia competing for award. With the banana, grains, and new iron products industries
quickly developing along transport corridors, prospects for cargo remain positive.
Renewed Interest in Decentralization of Cantonal Roads
The transfer of responsibilities to CONAVI for maintaining the national road network brought about a
renewed interest in the decentralization of cantonal roads. The project demonstrated that it was possible to
separate investment plans between the national road network and the cantonal road network with a
dedicated source of funds. Though there is still no definite strategy to sustain the maintenance of cantonal
roads, the Division of Public Works of MOPT, which was formerly in charge of the national network, is
now assisting the municipalities in maintaining the cantonal road network. Another positive step is the
preparation of an inventory of the cantonal network to cover the 81 municipalities in the country. There is
renewed interest in finding alternatives for a sustainable program with a gradual transfer of responsibilities
to the municipalities. The Bank has been following this process with interest and may support efforts in a
new operation.
Streamlining the Procurement Process
The project's physical components endured a rather slow implementation with notorious delays that
postponed achievement of sector objectives and benefits to users. Experience from this project demonstrates
that there is a need to streamline the procurement process in order to gain operational efficiency in
achieving sector goals. Current procurement procedures, with several agencies participating in the process,
- 15 -



resulted in frequent delays out of the control of the executing agency. This project highlighted an obvious
need to simplify procedures in order to maintain principles of economy and efficiency. The project also
highlighted the need to improve the quality of planning and the design of works contracts as well as
transparency in bidding and contracting. With simplification and a concern for quality in the procurement
process, projects are likely to gain efficiency, and suffer fewer delays, claims, and appeals. Simplification
is feasible by allowing executing agencies to carry out their own procurement processes. This would
require a government waiver exempting executing agencies from the involvement of the National Procuring
Office. Quality and accountability is possible with a strong coordinating unit in place throughout the
duration of the project.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The following is an abstract of the contribution wrote by the Borrower. A full text of the unedited
Borrower's contribution is shown in Annex 8.
Resumen del Reporte Ejecutivo
Ante la crisis econ6mica de la decada de los ochenta, el Gobiemo de Costa Rica se vio obligado a adoptar
medidas de reducci6n del gasto publico y estableci6 una politica de desarrollo para el mejoramiento de la
economia nacional. Dentro de esa politica, el sector transporte bajo la responsabilidad del Ministerio de
Obras Publicas y Transportes (MOPT) estableci6 una estrategia para mejorar los servicios de transporte y
la eficiencia en el uso de los recursos con miras al fomento de los sectores de producci6n y la promoci6n de
exportaciones. Con este fin, los programas de inversi6n y mejoramiento institucional del sector fueron
orientados al mejoramiento del sistema nacional de transporte, incluyendo carreteras, puertos y el
ferrocarril. La situaci6n del sector adolecia de serias deficiencias en el estado de la infraestructura por
atraso en programas de rehabilitaci6n y mantenimiento que demandaban pronta atenci6n
El gobiemo solicit6 el apoyo del Banco Mundial en el financiamiento de un proyecto que permitiera
desarrollar la estrategia del sector. El Banco, acorde con la estrategia, contribuy6 con MOPT en la
preparaci6n del proyecto, cuyas negociaciones culminaron con la suscripci6n de un Convenio de Prestamo
el 24 de agosto de 1990. Los objetivos del proyecto fueron: a) apoyar los esfuerzos del Prestatario para la
promoci6n de exportaciones, mejorando la calidad y seguridad de los servicios de transporte en los
corredores del Atlaintico y del Pacifico uniendo los puertos con sus ciudades principales; b) mejorar la
eficiencia del uso de los recursos del Prestatario a traves del fortalecimiento de la administraci6n del sector
transporte; y c) racionalizar los servicios portuarios y ferroviarios.
Los objetivos del proyecto permanecieron inalterados desde el principio hasta su terminaci6n el 30 de Junio
de 2001, a pesar de que su contenido tuvo que ser objeto de enmiendas al convenio original. Antes de la
efectividad del convenio un terremoto azot6 la Costa Atlantica del pais y caus6 grandes danios en la
infraestructura de transporte de la Regi6n, lo que fue motiv6 de la primera enmienda a las obras originales
de rehabilitaci6n de carreteras. En 1994 y 1996 se suscribieron otras dos enmiendas al Convenio,
principalmente con el objeto de reforzar la asistencia institucional para acomodarla a las necesidades de
reestructuraci6n del sector y dar apoyo a la aplicaci6n de la Ley de Concesiones. Tambien se introdujeron
componentes nuevos, entre ellos, la construcci6n de una rampa Ro Ro para descongestionar las operaciones
navieras en Puerto Lim6n y construcci6n de estaciones de pesaje de camiones para conservaci6n de la red
nacional de carreteras.
Las obras de rehabilitaci6n y mantenimiento en las carreteras principales y las obras portuarias en Puerto
- 16 -



Lim6n y Moin, asi como las reformas institucionales del sector contribuyeron a mejorar la calidad de los
servicios de transporte. MOPT permanece como lider del sector, pero exclusivamente con funciones
normativas y de politica de transporte orientadas a la eficiencia del sector.. Mediante leyes especiales se
crearon Consejos independientes y descentralizados, entre ellos, el Concejo Nacional de Vialidad
(CONAVI), ahora responsable de la red nacional de carreteras; y el Consejo Nacional de Concesiones
(CNC) que estA activo en las concesiones de servicios en puertos, ferrocarril y trechos de carreteras bajo
peaje.
Como consecuencia de esta reorganizaci6n, se ha mejorado la eficiencia de los recursos minimizando el
personal profesional a lo estrictamente necesario y haciendo uso del sector privado en las contrataciones de
bienes y servicios. La adopci6n de las recomendaciones de las asistencias tecnicas han contribuido al
mejoramiento operacional de MOPT, CNC y CONAVI.
El Plan Maestro Portuario con la aplicaci6n de sus recomendaciones y otras asistencias contribuyeron a
mejorar las operaciones en Puerto Lim6n y Puerto Caldera y se logr6 en ambos eficiencia operativa. La
asistencia permiti6 a INCOP y a CNC preparar un grupo de concesiones que incluyen el manejo de granos
y otras operaciones portuarias que ahora estAn en proceso de concesi6n. En cuanto al ferrocarril,
INCOFER a pesar de su dificil situaci6n econ6mica, logr6 racionalizar sus operaciones mediante una
disminucion drastica de personal operativo, eliminaci6n de las trasferencias del gobiemo y su dedicaci6n a
movilizaci6n exclusiva de carga selectiva que le permita cubrir gastos de operaci6n. Con este fin,
INCOFER cuenta con un personal minimo y las operaciones del ferrocarril son a base de contratos con
operadores privados. El proceso de asistencia culmin6 con el apoyo en el proceso de concesi6n del
ferrocarril que estA en su etapa final de licitaci6n.
El desarrollo del proyecto se vio afectado por la dificil situaci6n fiscal, la alta rotaci6n de personal y la
politica de reducci6n de personal bajo las reformas institucionales. Ademas, otros factores contribuyeron a
experiencias desfavorables que se manifestaron en el atraso en la ejecuci6n del proyecto. El proyecto
manifest6 deterioro gerencial en 1993 que despues recuper6. Principalmente las obras civiles fueron
afectadas adversamente en su preparaci6n y diseiios finales y en la lentitud en el proceso de contrataciones.
La preparacion del proyecto manifest6 debilidades en la calidad de los disefios que condujo a sucesivas
revisiones y enmiendas durante la construcci6n. Por otro lado, los procedimientos de contrataci6n no fueron
agiles debido a los niveles de revisi6n y aprobaci6n fuera del control de la coordinaci6n del proyecto. Estas
experiencias desfavorables quedan como lecciones para futuros proyectos.
Durante la vida del proyecto se logr6 desarrollar una cultura de mantenimiento que esta beneficiando a todo
el sector. Aunque el proceso de transformaci6n del sector esta todavia en marcha, el sector transporte estA
siendo renovado en su organizaci6n. MOPT participa en la presidencia de los consejos sectoriales, que son
responsables de sus respectivas actividades, todos coadyuvando para mantener la competitividad
intemacional de Costa Rica a traves de un sistema de transporte eficiente y seguro.
En el area vial, CONAVI estA funcionando razonablemente en la administraci6n de la red vial nacional con
respaldo presupuestario proveniente del impuesto al combustible. La Divisi6n de Obras Publicas de MOPT
provee asistencia a las municipalidades en el mantenimiento de la red cantonal.
En el area portuaria, ambos INCOP y JAPDEVA han mejorado sus operaciones en respuesta a las
recomendaciones del plan maestro portuario. CNC esta procediendo a la adjudicaci6n de la concesi6n de
las operaciones portuarias en puerto Caldera y Puntarenas, cuya experiencia podra servir posteriormente
para las concesiones en Puerto Lim6n. Tambien la asistencia persistente a INCOFER esta teniendo buen
resultado en las operaciones del ferrocarril, cuyo patrimonio y operaciones estA en proceso de licitaci6n.
- 17 -



En conjunto, las innovaciones en el sector han mejorado los servicios de transporte de los corredores de
exportaci6n, comunicando el valle central y las zonas de producci6n agricola con los puertos. La
ampliaci6n y mantenimiento de los nexos al exterior a traves de la infraestructura portuaria y
aeroportuaria, mejoraran con la introducci6n de las figuras de concesi6n y gesti6n de servicios.
(b) Cofinanciers:
NA
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
NA
10. Additional Information
None
18 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Performance Targets of the Project
(in km)
National Road
Network
1990      91       92      93     94      95      96        97       98       99        00       01        Total
Rehabilitation                                              _.                 _                   _
Original              -        20       100    100    100    100    38                                                          458
As amended                                                   -      -       -             -         -                           205
Actual                  _                                33  18  27   53   38   31                             __               201
Emergency I/          -         19      28      24      9                               _                   _                    80
Out of Project 2/     n.a.     29       37      44      24      54      40       45       92        21       48        18       452
Periodic
Maintenance
Original              -        58       190    200    200    210    20                       =        =                  =      878
As amended             __                        =    -_                     X_    _ _   __ =600
Actual                                            4      40      50       _                                                      94
Out of Project 2/    n.a.      63       24      11      28      110    55        39       22        80       290       270      992
Routine
Maintenance
Out of Project 2/     494      672.    593    763    490    658    1194          1690      1284     1920    4200       3376
1/ Rehabilitation of main roads in the Atlantic Coast due to the earthquake of 4/22/91.
2/ Rehabilitation, Periodic and Routine maintenance by MOPT, and CONAVI IN 2000-2001.
Cantonal Road
Network
Rehabilitation          90       91        92       93        94       95        96       97        98       99        00      01
Original              86        126      5 6      140       140      154       n.a.    ___                                    __
Actual                n.a        6       15        30        11       10        14        6        5         4        12      n.a.
Periodic
Maintenance   __=___
Original              100       106      200      333       347      380       n.a.
Actual                n.a        8        23       38        20    l  74    1  16        59        73       30        225     n.a
Routine
Maintenance
Original              1350      1850     2150 | 2350        3000     3000    13000                           _          _
Actual                 580      822       755      933       626      988                                  1772      1715     na.
- 19-



Railways
90      91       92      93       94      95      96      97     98     99      00      01
Staffing
Original     2038      1688    1338    1288    n.a.    n.a.      n.a.
Actual       2303      1474    1280    1264    1257    88        65     67      55     59      55      55
Freiht Traffic
1/         __ _ _ _                             _ _ _ _                                        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Original     1.05      1.12    1.24     1.38    n.a.     n.a.    n.a.     _              _
Actual 2/    0.81      0.77    0.75     0.74    0.66     0.62    0      0       0      0.17    0.22    0.10
4/
Gov. Transfers.
Original     325       275     231      131     na.      na.     n.a.                    _
Actual       670      660      82 3     1174    1320    1221    200    150    133    238    152    0
I/ Million tons.
2/ All railway services suspended from 06/95 to 12/99.
3/ Million Colones.
4/ Up to 06/01.
Ports
INCOP            90       91      92       93      94       95      96       97      98       99      00      01
Operating
Ratio__ _ _                                               __ _ _  __  _ _
Original      n.a.      96       93      93       93      93       93
Actual 2/     n.a.      n.a.   80        85       75      90       79      73       79      78       0.70    n.a.
Grain Handlln_
_tons/dayl                    _  ___     __ _ _  __ _ _   ___   __ _ _ _
Original      1600      1600    1800    2000    2000    2000    2000
Actual         1225     1644    1890    2630    2410    2492    2520    3342    3753    4110    3700    n.a.
JAPDEVA
Operating Ratio    _______
Actual 2/     n.a       n.a     n.a      n.a      n.a     n.a      0.52    0.54    0.53     0.60     0.54    n.a.
Tonnae_
Handling
(millions tons) 3
Actual         2.67     2.70    3.20    na.    3.80       3.90    3.90    4.50      5.30    5.50     5.10    na.
1/ Indicators not required at Appraisal.
2/ Exclude depreciation and taxes.
3/ Excluding petroleum.
- 20 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs b Components (US$ millions)
Appraisal          Actual          Difference
A CIVIL WORKS
(i) Roads
Rehabilitation of Trunk Roads                32.66              27.77
Road Rehabilitation (Earthquake)             -                   6.62
Periodic Maintenance                         23.80               6.07
Truck Weight Stations                       _                    2.76
Sub-total                                    56.46              43.22           (13.24)
(ii) Ports
Puntarenas Jetty                             6.50               -
Ro-Ro Ramp at Liomon _                                           7.34
Dredging at Limon/Moin                       -                   3.21
Sub-total                                    6.50               10.55           4.05
(iii) Railways
Railway Rehabilitation                                          0.87            0.87
B ENGINEERING/SUPERVISION                    ______    __________
Engineering                                  1.10              0.30
Supervision                                  2.70               3.34
Administration                               0.90               0.12
Sub-total                                    4.70               3.76            (0.94)
C EQUIPMENT
Road Maintenance                             5.00               1.58
Grain Handling                               0.60               -
In-transit Cargo                             0.55               0.42
Laboratories                                 1.47               0.03
Railroad equipment                                              2.72
Truck weight                                                    1.37
Computers and Miscellaneous                                     0.76
Sub-total                                    7.62               6.88            (0.74)
D INSTITUTIONAL IMPROVEMENTS
Technical Assistance to MOPT                 0.75               2.39
Technical Assistance to INCOFER              0.45               0.60
Technical Assistance to Ports                0.60               2.51
Paving Planning/Management                   0.50               0.99
Technical Assistance to GDTM                 0.20               -
Study of Port Caldera                        0.50               -
Training                                     0.15               0.46
Support to Concession Law                   0                   2.24
Sub-total                                    3.15               9.19            6.04
E CONTINGENCIES
Physical                                     7.00               -
Price                                        11.41
Sub-total                                    18.41              -               (18.41)
Total Cost                                   96.84              74.47            (22.37) 1/
If Includes a loan cancellation of US$12 million of 8/2/96, and a final cancellation of US$0.7 million.
- 21 -



Project Cost by Procurement Arrangements (US$ million)
Appraisal                          Actual
Category                    ICB      NCB    Other   Total    ICB    NCB    Other   Total
Cost                               Cost
Works                       68.7    10.0              78.7      51.1            3.6      54.7
(38.6)  (5.6)            (44.2)    (27.2)          (1. 1)   (28.3)
Supervision/Supervision     -        -       2.3      5.4                       3.7      3.7
(3.1)   (3.1)                      (2.9)   (2.9)
Equipment                   6.1      2.0     1.0      9.1       6.9                      6.9
(6.1)   (2.0)   (1.0)    (9.1)     (6.9)                    (6.9)
Technical Assistance        -                3.6      3.6                       9.2      9.2
(3.6)    (3.6)                     (9.2)    (9.2)
Total                       74.8    12.0    10.0    96.8        58.0             16.5    74.5
(44.7)  (7.6)   (7.7)    (60.0)    (34.1)           (13.2)  (47.3)
l/ Including contingencies.
- 22 -



Project Financing by Components (US$ millions)
Apraisal Estimate               Actual Estimate
Local   Foreign    Total      Local      Foreign    Total
Institutional Program       1.0       2.2       3.2         -         9.2        9.2
Civil Works
Roads
Road Rehabilitation         9.1      23.6       32.7       14.2       13.6      27.8
Earthquake Rehabilitation    -         -         -         1.3        5.3        6.6
Periodic Maintenance        6.7      17.1       23.8       3.6        2.5        6.1
Truck Weight Stations        -         -         -         2.5        0.3        2.8
Ports
Puntarenas jetty            2.6       3.9       6.5         -          -          -
Ro-Ro Ramp at Limon          -         -         -         3.9        3.4        7.3
Dredging at Limon/Moin                                     0.6        2.6        3.2
Railway                  _
Railway Rehabilitation       -         -         -         0.2        0.7        0.9
Supervision/Supervision     3.1       1.6       4.7        0.9        2.8        3.7
Equipment                   0.2       7.4       7.6         -         6.9        6.9
Contingencies               5.8      12.6       18.4        -          -          -
Total Cost                 28.5      68.4       96.9       27.2      47.3       74.5
A   raisal Estimate              Actual Estimate
Financing Plan            Local   Foreign    Total      Local      Foreign    Total
Government                 28.5       8.4       36.9       27.2                 27.2
IBRD        _ Original   =                      60.0                            60.0
Cancellation I/                                                                 12.7
IBRD Final                                                                      47.3
1/ Amendment of 8/2,/96 plus final cancellation of US$692, 151.
- 23 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Length     Average    Investments   Maintenance       Savings      Net Benefits   NPV            ERR
km          vpd                         Cost          COV                                        %
Sardinal-Ruta 21                 7.40        1,700        96,440        194,320       1,306,586      1,015,826      510,958       100+
Javillos-Cruce La Tigra          5.60         950         108,827       147,050        552,549        296,672        113,118       33
Aguas Zarcas-Venecia             10.60       1,950        163,069       230,650       2,146,871      1,753,142      876,498       100+
Buenos Aires-Paso Real           24.30       2,032       845,895        528,760       5,128,581      3,753,926      1,650,072      47
Rio Convento-                    29.40       3,100       1,154,390      639,740       9,466,748      7,672,118     3,642,604       67
Buenos Aires
Jaco-Loma                        37.60       2100        1,147,963      818,170       8,201,209      6,23 5,076    2,858,854       56
Tarcoles-Jaco                    29.50       2,200       1,132,179      641,920       6,740,843      4,966,744      2,178,423      47
Sources: MOPT
- 24 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                     No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)       Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count              Specialty                         Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
03/1987                        2    TE, HE
07/1987                        2    TE, HE
10/1987                        1   CE
02/1988                        1   F
Appraisal/Negotiation
08/1988                        5    TTL, HE, IF, CE
11/1989                        1   TE
03/1990                        2    TE, CE
04/1990                        1   TE
Supervision
05/1991                         4   TTL, HE, PE, RES                       S               S
08/1991                         4   TTL, HE, PE, F                         S               S
03/1992                         2   TTL, PE                                S               S
10/1992                         1   TTL                                    U              S
06/1993                         5   TTL, TE, 3CE                           U               S
02/1994                         4   TTL, F, 2CE                            S               S
04/1994                         2   TTL, F                                 S               S
09/1994                         1   TTL                                    S               S
12/1994                         1   TTL                                    U              S
01/1995                         1   TTL                                    U               S
06/1995                         4   TTL, 2HE, CE                           U               S
08/1995                         2   TTL, CE                                U               S
11/1995                        3   TTL,HE,CE                               U              s
06/1996                         1   TTL                                    U               S
12/1996                        2   TTL, F                                  S              S
08/1997                         2   TTL, CE                                U               S
12/1997                         1   TTL                                    U               S
03/1998                         3   TTL, HE, CE                            S               S
07/1998                         1   TTL                                    S               S
09/1998                         3   TTL,2CE                                S               S
06/1999                         1   TTL                                    S               S
10/1999                         1   TTL                                    S               S
01/2000                         1   TTL                                    S               S
05/2000                         2   TTL, HE                                S               S
01/2001                         I   TTL                                    S               S
06/2001                         1   TTL                                    S               S
ICR
06/2001                        2    TTL, CE
- 25 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               110.1                        206.3
Appraisal/Negotiation                     65.3                        138.7
Supervision                              259.9                        598.9
ICR                                        5.0                         20.0
Total                                    440.3                        963.9
- 26 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
X Macro policies                           * H  0 SU 0  Vl O N        NA
I Sector Policies                          * H  O SU 0M  0 N  0 AA
F Physical                                  O H  *SU OM  O N  C NA
Z Financial                                O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
N Institutional Development                * H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
EI Environmental                           O H  * SU OM  O N  O NA
Social
N Poverty Reduction                  0 H  0 SU O M  * N  0 NA
O Gender                             O H O SU O M O N * NA
O Other (Please specify)             0 H  O SU OM  0 N  * NA
I Private sector development                * H  O SU 0M  0 N  O NA
F Public sector management                 0 H  * SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
OOther (Please specify)                    O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 27 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
 Lending                                             OHS OS OU OHU
 Supervision                                         OHS*S  O U O HU
[? Overall                                            OHS OS   O  u  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                               Rating
 Preparation                                         OHS * S  O  U  O HU
 Government implementation performance               O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
 Implementation agency performance                   OHS OS   0  U  O HU
Z Overall                                             OHS OS OU O HU
- 28 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
I     Staff Appraisal Report No. 7694-CR
2      Loan Agreement No. L3205
3      Memorandum of the President No.P-5227-CR
4      Executive Decree Mo.27917 Restructuring MOPT, May 31, 1999
5      Legislative Law No.7798 Creating CONAVI, June 12, 1998
6      Decree No.27131-41-MOPT 15% tax on fuels for CONAVI, June 16,1990
7      Executive Decree 27099 Organization and Functions of CONAVI, June 12, 1998
8      Legislative Law No.7762 General Concession Law for Public Works of April 2, 1998
9      Executive decree No.27098 By-Laws for CNC, June 12, 1998
10    Legislative Law No.7593 creating ARESEP, August 9, 1996
11    Informe Final del Proyecto MOPT, June 2001
12    Reforma al Sistema Nacional de Transporte, Louis Berger International
13    Actualizaci6n Plan Nacional de Transporte Aereo, Ing. Guillermo alvarez
14    Actualizaci6n Plan Nacional de Transporte de Carreteras, Ing. Luis Camacho
15    Estudio Manual de Cargos Institucional, Franzthel S.A.
16    Puesta en Marcha Re-estructuraci6n de MOPT, INHACO S.A.
17    Plan Nacional de Desarrollo Portuario, O.C.D.I.
18    Modemizaci6n Sub-sector Portuario, Hamburg Port Consultants
19    Puesta en Marcha Reorganizaci6n Portuaria, Ing. Olman Elizondo
20     Negociaci6n Laboral, Enrique Montealegre
21     Coordinaci6n Proyecto Modemizaci6n Portuaria, Ing. Olman Elizondo
22     Disenio e Implementaci6n de un Sistema de Administraci6n de Pavimentos, BCEOM
23     Plan Estrategico INCOFER, CPCS Ltda.
24     Cartel de Licitaci6n Ferrocarriles, INECO
25     Estudio Juridico de Concesi6n de Ferrocarriles Nacionales, Lic. Jorge Castro
26     Estudio Juridico de Concesi6n de Ferrocarriles Nacionales, Holland & Night
27     Recursos Naturales y Planificaci6n Transporte Urbano, David Pierce
28     Administarci6n y Gerencia en Ingenieria de Procesos COP, Ing. Mario Barboza
29     Gesti6n Legal y Financiera Interesada Aeropuerto, Lic. Laura Rivera
30     Gesti6n Legal y Financiera Aeropuerto, Lic. Fabiana Gutierrez
31     Administraci6n y Gerencia de Procesos de Concesi6n, Federico Herrera
32     Modelos para Plan Vial, Ing. Luis Miguel Gerardotti
33     Sistema de Pesos y Dimensiones, Ing. Cristian Orb Milan
34     Semaforizaci6n de San Jose. Ing. David Overton
35     Prefactibilidad de Viaductos Urbanos en San Jose, GETINSA-NOVOTECNI
36     Disenio Viaduto San Jose-Gu$piles-Lim6n, GETINSA-NOVOTECNI
37     Factibilidad y Disefio Viaducto San Jose-Cartago, URS Greiner/Woodcard/Clyde
- 29 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution
INFORME RESUMEN
The following is a the full text of the Borrower's contribution to the ICR.
I. INTRODUCCION
La crisis econ6mica de la decada de los ochenta oblig6 al Gobierno de la Republica de Costa Rica a
realizar un analisis profundo del funcionamiento del aparato estatal, dando como conclusi6n que era
necesario adoptar medidas que permitieran redimensionar y reorientar las actividades del Estado, de
acuerdo a las nuevas condiciones econ6micas .
En el caso particular del Ministerio de Obras Pubblicas y Transportes (MOPT), el reto al que se enfrent6
era doble: primero, la necesidad de fomentar un sistema de transporte que apoyara el desarrollo de los
sectores de la producci6n y el desarrollo social, ya que presentaba un enorme atraso respecto a las
necesidades del usuario de los servicios, y segundo, la necesidad de diseniar una estrategia que le permitiera
cumplir eficaz y eficientemente su papel rector en el sector transporte, ejecutando en el menor plazo posible
las inversiones que requiere el sector y los servicios asociados a 6l. Dentro de esa estrategia, se incluia el
trasladar al sector privado la mayor cantidad de actividades de perfil comercial que desarrolla el Estado
con miras a ser mas eficiente en la orientaci6n de los recursos publicos y en la prestaci6n de servicios.
El MOPT dispuso continuar con la asistencia que anteriormente venia prestando el Banco Mundial para
desarrollar la estrategia del gobiemo tendiente a mejorar sustancialmente al sector transporte.
1I. CONVENIO DE PRESTAMO
La preparacion del proyecto se inici6 en marzo 1987 para apoyar los esfuerzos del Gobiemo para
promover y diversificar las exportaciones mediante el mejoramiento de la calidad y seguridad de los
servicios en los corredores de transporte vial y asistir al Gobiemo en la administraci6n y racionalizaci6n de
Puertos y Ferrocarriles. Entre agosto y noviembre 1988, dos misiones del Banco visitaron Costa Rica para
completar la evaluaci6n del proyecto y prepararlo para la etapa de las negociaciones.
En Abril de 1990, las negociaciones terminaron exitosamente y la firma del Convenio de Prestamo tuvo
lugar el 24 agosto de ese mismo afio. La asignaci6n de ese fondo se realiz6 de acuerdo con la publicaci6n
en el Diario de Costa Rica" La Gaceta" No. 93, Alcance No. 16 de la Ley 7238 del 17 mayo de 1991 .
Sin embargo, el 22 abril 1991 un terremoto azot6 la zona AtlAntica del pais y caus6 grandes dafios en la
infraestructura de transportes de la Regi6n. Con el prop6sito de satisfacer la petici6n del Gobiemo en lo
referente a la ayuda tecnica y financiera para solventar los dafios causados por el terremoto el Banco
acordo el 19 julio 1991, una enmienda al Convenio de Prestamo seguin la cual US $ 27.84 millones del
pr6stamo se destinaron a cubrir dichos dafios. Esto fue respaldado con la Declaraci6n de Emergencia del
Gobiemo de la Republica de Costa Rica, mediante Decreto No 20397-MP_MOPT publicado en La
Gaceta No 81 del 30 de abril de 1991. Esto implic6 la inclusi6n de un componente de emergencia en el
proyecto y la reducci6n de las cantidades originalmente asignadas a obras civiles y equipos.
El 7 de abril 1994, una segunda enmienda al Convenio de Prestamo fue acordada entre el Banco y el
Gobiemo de Costa Rica a fin de adecuar las asignaciones del Prestamo a las necesidades actuales del
- 30 -



proyecto. Esta nueva enmienda tuvo como prop6sito lo siguiente: cerrar el componente de emergencia en
vista del tiempo transcurrido desde el terremoto y transferir los proyectos ( y sus respectivas asignaciones)
incluidos en el componente pero no iniciados a la fecha, al componente normal; reestructurar el componente
de asistencias tecnicas y estudios para hacerlo mas acorde con los requerimientos actuales del MOPT a
raiz, entre otras cosas, de los cambios provocados por la Reforma del Estado y del Programa de Movilidad
Laboral; e incluir en el proyecto la construcci6n de una rampa "roll on-roll off' (RO-RO) en el Puerto de
Lim6n para liberar el congestionamiento existente en el muelle.
Posteriormente el 2 de Agosto de 1996 se introduce una reasignaci6n de recursos que entr6 en vigor el 07
de marzo de 1997 y en la cual el Gobiemo de Costa Rica a traves del Ministerio de Hacienda renunci6 a
US $ 12 millones del monto original de US$ 60 millones pactado en el Convenio de Prestamo. El motivo la
cancelaci6n estaba ligado a problemas fiscales, bajo progreso en ejecuci6n del proyecto y a la posibilidad
de la creaci6n de un nuevo impuesto en el precio de los combustibles para destinarlo al mantenimiento y
conservaci6n de la red vial nacional. Dicho impuesto se hizo efectivo hasta en 1998 con la creaci6n del
Consejo Nacional de Vialidad (CONAVI) como responsable del mantenimiento de la red vial nacional y
desde entonces se han podido captar recursos suficientes y aplicarlos con mayor celeridad a las obras viales
mediante licitaciones con la industria de la construcci6n.
En abril de 1996, MOPT solicita una ampliaci6n de la fecha de cierre del proyecto al 30 junio 1998,
gesti6n que fue aprobada por el Banco. Al 31 de diciembre de 1998 el monto desembolsado correspondia al
82 % del prestamo. Posteriormente se tramitan las ampliaciones adicionales siguientes: ampliaci6n de
plazo hasta el 30 junio 1999; hasta el 30 junio 2.000; hasta el 30 setiembre 2.000; y finalmente hasta el 30
junio 2001.
III. OBJETIVOS DEL PROYECTO
A pesar de las enmienda realizada al Convenio de Prestamo a raiz del terremoto de 1991 y las
reestructuraciones sub-siguientes, los objetivos del Proyecto han permanecido inalterados desde su
formulaci6n. Ellos son:
Apoyar los esfuerzos del Prestatario para la promoci6n de exportaciones, mejorando la calidad y seguridad
de los servicios de transporte en los corredores del Atlantico y del Pacifico uniendo los puertos con sus
ciudades principales
Mejorar la eficiencia del uso de los recursos del Prestatario a traves del fortalecimiento de la
administraci6n del sector transporte y satisfacer los requerimientos de transporte intemacional,
interregional, regional y local y
Racionalizar los servicios portuarios y ferroviarios.
IV. COMPONENTES DEL PROYECTO
El Proyecto Sectorial de Transportes comprendio las siguientes categorias:
Categoria 1. Obras Civiles, parte A de la descripci6n del Proyecto, que incluye: rehabilitaci6n y
mejoramiento de la red vial nacional; obras de emergencia debidas a terremoto de la Costa Atlantica;
mantenimiento peri6dico de la red vial nacional; y obras de transporte maritimo y vial.
Categoria 2. Equipos y repuestos, parte B, para mantenimiento de red vial nacional, del ferrocarril y
aduanas
Categoria 3. Asistencia tecnica institucional, parte C, para desarrollo institucional y asistencia tecnica al
sector, e ingenieria y supervisi6n de las obras
- 31 -



OBRAS CIVILES
Rehabilitaci6n y mejoramiento red vial nacional. Los recursos se destinaron a rehabilitar 13 trechos en
carreteras principales en las provincias de Alajuela, Puntarenas y Limon segun se detalla:
Kilometros
Sardinal-Ruta 21, Guanacaste                             7.4
Ciudad Quesada-Zarcero, Alajuela                        27.0
Rio Jesuis Maria-Caldera, Puntarenas                     5.0
Lepanto - Playa Naranjo, Puntarenas                      9.0
Javillos- Cruce La Tigra, Alajuela                       5.6
Aguas Zarcas-Venecia, Alajuela                          11 .0
Aguas Zarcas-Los Chiles, Alajuela                        3.5
Interamericana Bemardo Soto-Grecia, Ruta 1               9.0
Buenos Aires - Paso Real, Interamericana Sur            24.9
Rio Convento - Buenos Aires, Interamericana Sur         29.4
Tarcoles-Jac6, Costanera del Pacifico                   28.7
Penshurt - Pandora, Limon                                9.9
Jac6- Loma, Costanera del Pacifico                      31.0
Obras de emergencia debidas a terremoto. Para este rubro de emergencia se le di6 prioridad a las obras
mas urgentes en la zona Atlantica, a saber:
Transporte Vial:                                        Kil6metros
Ruta 32 Siquirres-Lim6n                                 29.3
Ruta 36 Rio La Estrella - Bri-Bri                       28.1
Ruta 32 Battan y Ruta 32 - Matina (Battan)               4.1
Ruta 32 Battan y Ruta 32- Matina (Matina)                5.7
Lim6n - Santa Rosa - Rio Banano                         12.4
Rehabilitaci6n Via Ferrea                               Kil6metros
Valle La Estrella, Limon                                       52.0
Lim6n-Siquirres-Rio Frio                                60.0
Transporte Maritimo.Obras de Dragado
Dragado de Puerto Limon                          350,000 metros cubicos
Dragado Puerto Moin                              750,000 metros cubicos
Mantenimiento peri6dico red vial nacional
Bajo el proyecto se ejecut6 mantenimiento peri6dico en trechos de carreteras principales ubicados en la
Provincias de Guanacaste, Heredia y San Jose, como sigue:
- 32 -



Kil6metros
Heredia -Santo Domingo                                   3.6
Intersecci6n Ruta 27 y Calles de Santa Ana               3.8
Alajuela - San Isidro                                    8.8
Ruta21-Guardia-Belen-Santa Cruz                          37.2
Ruta 23- Interamericana-El Roble-Caldera                 13.0
Santa Cruz - Nicoya                                      21.6
Heredia- Barva                                           2.9
Tibas- Moravia                                           3.3
Obras civiles- Transporte Maritimo y Vial.
Construcci6n Roll-on Roll-off/Muelle en Puerto Lim6n. Como producto de la segunda enmienda al
Convenio de Prestamo, se dedicaron recursos para la construcci6n de una rampa Roll-on Roll-off/muelle
para buques Roll-on Roll-off y para cruceros con el objeto de liberar el congestionamiento en esta terminal.
Este proyecto abarc6: dragados, construcci6n de rampa de transbordo, dique de confinamiento y rellenos,
duques de alba, rehabilitaci6n de muelle existente como acceso peatonal y construccion de los sistemas
electromecanicos y telef6nicos.
Construcci6n de tres estaciones de pesaje para la Red Vial Nacional:
Bi3falo , Lim6n, en el kil6metro 141 de la Ruta No 32.
Ochomogo, Cartago, en el kil6metro 16 de la Ruta No 2.
Esparza, Puntarenas, en el kil6metro 104 de la Ruta No 1.
Las pistas y edificios fueron terninados, no asi las zonas de estacionamiento, que por errores en la
estimaci6n de cantidades quedaron fuera de presupuesto. Existe el compromiso del Gobiemo de finalizar
las obras bajo la jurisdiccion de CONAVI.
EQUIPOS Y REPUESTOS
Se adquirieron diferentes equipos asignados a diferentes oficinas e instituciones, como sigue: equipo y
repuestos para obras viales de mantenimiento en MOPT; equipo para ferrocarriles; equipos de control
carga en transito para la Direcci6n de Aduanas; equipos para el laboratorio de materiales del MOPT;
equipos y sistemas de control de peso de vehiculos para las estaciones de pesaje; y equipo de c6mputo para
informaci6n gerencial de MOPT e INCOFER
ASISTENCIA TECNICA INSTITUCIONAL
Este componente fue reestructurado y ampliado acorde para satisfacer los requerimientos de
reestructuraci6n del MOPT, el INCOFER y el CNC la participaci6n de consultorias especializadas.
Disefio, ingenieria y supervisi6n. La asistencia asignada a este concepto se aplic6 mediante contratos con
consultores privados a los proyectos siguientes: Rio Convento- Buenos Aires; Buenos Aires- Paso
Real;Jac6-Loma; Tarcoles-Jac6; Penshurt- Pandora; Obras Ferrocarrileras; Rampa Ro-Ro/Lim6n; y
rehabilitaci6n do los Puertos Lim6n y Moin. La ingenieria y supervisi6n para otras obras civiles del
proyecto fue realizada por el personal de NOPT.
Desarrollo Institucional, asistencia tecnica y estudios
- 33 -



La asistencia al sector se inici6 con el plan nacional de transporte en el area terrestre, maritimo y aereo que
sent6 las bases para el desarrollo institucional de las instituciones del sector. La asistencia persisti6 en la
reestructuraci6n del sector y el impulso a la participaci6n de la iniciativa privada con el apoyo a la
implementaci6n de la Ley de Concesiones. Las asistencias se enumeran a continuaci6n
Plan Nacional Transporte Aereo, MOPT.
Plan Nacional Transporte de Carreteras, MOPT
Modelos para Plan Vial, MOPT
Plan Nacional de Desarrollo Portuario, MOPT.
Modernizaci6n de Sub-sector Portuario, MOPT.
Puesta en Marcha Re-organizaci6n Subsector Portuario, MOPT.
Coordinaci6n Proyecto Modernizaci6n Portuaria, MOPT
Establecimiento de un Sistema de Pesos y Dimensiones, MOPT
Semaforizaci6n de San Jose, MOPT
Disefio Preliminar y Estudio de Factibilidad Concesi6n de 3 Viaductos Urbanos en
Consejo Nacional de Concesiones.
Disefio Preliminar y Factibilidad de Concesi6n para Carretera San Jos&-Guapiles-Lim6n, Consejo
Nacional de Concesiones.
Disefio Preliminar y Estudio de Factibilidad para Concesi6n Carretera San Jose-Cartago
Reforma al Sistema Nacional de Transportes, MOPT.
Estudio Manual de Cargos Institucional, MOPT.
Puesta en marcha re-estructuraci6n del MOPT.
Negociaci6n Laboral, MOPT/INCOP
Disenio e hnplantaci6n de un Sistema de Administraci6n de Pavimentos, MOPT
Elaboraci6n Plan Estrategico, INCOFER
Cartel de Licitaci6n Ferrocarriles, INCOFER
Consultoria Juridica Proceso Concesi6n Sistema de Ferrocarriles, INCOFER
Recursos Naturales y Planificaci6n Transporte Urbano, MOPT
Administraci6n y Gerencia en Ingenieria de Procesos, CNC.
Gesti6n Legal y Financiera Aeropuerto Juan Santamaria, MOPT.
Capacitaci6n de personal de MOPT en especialidades.
V. EXPERIENCIAS Y RESULTADOS
Experiencias. La experiencia mas importante fue cumplir los objetivos del proyecto, a pesar de las
dificultades econ6micas y desastres naturales que sufri6 el Pais.
Primnero, el proyecto logr6 mejorar la calidad y confiabilidad de los servicios de transporte en los
corredores del Atlantico y del Pacifico que conectan con los principales puertos. Ademas de las
rehabilitaciones en las carreteras principales y los mejoramientos en Puerto Lim6n arriba indicadas, se
logr6 el desarrollo del todo el sector. MOPT fue reducido en personal y las operaciones de obras por
administraci6n fueron sustituidas por contratos con la iniciativa privada. Mediante Leyes especiales se
reorganiz6 el MOPT y se crearon Consejos independientes y descentralizados que incluyen: el Consejo
Nacional de Vialidad (CONAVI) y el Consejo Nacional de Concesiones. Otros consejos forman parte de la
nueva organizaci6n e incluyen el Consejo de Seguridad Vial, el Consejo Nacional Portuario, el Consejo de
Transporte Publico y el Consejo de Aviacion Civil.
En el transporte terrestre, CONAVI asumi6 en 1999 la responsabilidad del mantenimiento y desarrollo de
la red vial nacional en una longitud de 7,400 kil6metros para lo cual cuenta con fondos especiales
- 34 -



provenientes de una tasa impositiva al combustible. Por otro lado, las municipalidades con la asistencia de
la Divisi6n de Obras Puiblicas de MOPT tienen la responsabilidad sobre el mantenimiento y desarrollo de la
red cantonal con una longitud de 29,000 kil6metros. La separaci6n de estas funciones y sus respectivos
presupuestos ha sido un logro importante del proyecto en pro de la calidad y confiabilidad de los servicios.
Respecto a los sectores maritimo y aereo, los respectivos planes nacionales de transporte han sentado las
bases de mejoramiento de la calidad y confiabilidad de los servicios portuarios y de aviaci6n civil.
Segundo, como consecuencia de la anterior reorganizaci6n, se ha cumplido con mejorar la eficiencia de los
recursos minimizando el personal profesional a lo estrictamente necesario y haciendo uso del sector privado
para las contrataciones de bienes y servicios. Esto se ha Ilevado a cabo tanto en MOPT, CONAVI, CNC,
asi como en las autoridades portuarias y en la administraci6n del ferrocarril.
Tercero, se cumpli6 el objetivo de racionalizar los puertos. El plan maestro portuario con sus
recomendaciones y otras asistencias mejor6 las operaciones portuarias en Puerto Limon y Puerto Caldera.
En el primero se logro descongestionar las operaciones con la construcci6n de una rampa Ro Ro y se logr6
eficiencia operativa. La asistencia permiti6 a INCOP preparar un grupo de concesiones que incluyen el
manejo de granos y otras operaciones portuarias que ahora estan en proceso de concesi6n en su etapa final.
En cuanto al ferrocarril, TNCOFER a pesar de su dificil situacion econ6mica, logro racionalizar sus
operaciones mediante una disminuci6n drastica de personal operativo, eliminaci6n de las trasferencias del
gobiemo y su dedicaci6n a movilizaci6n exclusiva de carga selectiva que le permita cubrir gastos de
operaci6n. Con este fin, INCOFER cuenta con un personal minimo y las operaciones del ferrocarril son a
base de contratos con operadores privados. El proceso de asistencia culmino con el apoyo en el proceso de
concesi6n del ferrocarril que esta en su etapa final de adjudicaci6n
Planes de Mantenimiento. La asistencia tecnica mejor6 sustancialmente la formulaci6n de planes de
mantenimiento de la red vial nacional y tanto el personal de planificaci6n como el personal de ingenieria de
pavimentos adquiri6 experiencia en la formulaci6n de planes anuales de mantenimiento. Desde 1999,
MOPT prepara regularmente planes anuales y quinquenales para el ente ejecutor CONAVI con opciones de
acuerdo a los recursos y las condiciones de las vias.
Otras Experiencias. El desarrollo del proyecto se vio afectado por la dificil situaci6n fiscal, la alta rotaci6n
de personal y la politica de reducci6n de personal bajo la Reforma del Estado. Ademas, otros factores
contribuyeron a experiencias desfavorables que se manifestaron en el atraso en la ejecuci6n del proyecto. El
proyecto manifest6 deterioro gerencial en 1993 que despues recuper6. Principalmente las obras civiles
fueron afectadas adversarnente en su preparacion y disefios finales y en la lentitud en el proceso de
contrataciones. La preparaci6n de proyecto manifest6 debilidades en la calidad de los disenos que condujo
a sucesivas revisiones y enmiendas durante la construcci6n. Por otro lado, los procedimientos de
contrataci6n no fueron agiles debido a los niveles de revisi6n y aprobaci6n fuera del control de la
coordinaci6n del proyecto.
La Coordinaci6n del Proyecto estuvo bajo la responsabilidad de 6 profesionales diferentes durante la vida
del proyecto. La unidad estuvo anexa a cuatro oficinas dentro del antiguo MOPT y trabaj6 con personal
profesional y recursos limitados. A pesar de las limitaciones, la oficina mantuvo excelente relaci6n con el
personal del Banco y puso especial interes en el desarrollo del proyecto, la presentaci6n de informes
tecnicos, auditorias anuales y el cumplimiento de las condiciones del Convenio de Prestamo.
Para futuros proyectos, estas experiencias desfavorables indican la necesidad de mantener una unidad
coordinadora con personal calificado estable y recursos suficientes. Tambien conllevan recomendaciones,
- 35 -



primero, para mejorar la calidad de la preparaci6n de los proyectos y la revisi6n de disefios y, segundo,
para agilizar el proceso de las adquisiciones dentro del mecanismo existente en el Pais.
Resultados. De las experiencias anteriores durante la vida del proyecto se logr6 desarrollar una cultura de
mantenimiento que esta beneficiando a todo el sector. Aunque el proceso de transformaci6n del sector esta
todavia en marcha, el sector transporte esta siendo renovado en su organizaci6n, quedando MOPT como
lider normativo del sector. Los consejos sectoriales arriba mencionados son responsables de sus respectivas
actividades, todos coadyuvando para mantener la competitividad internacional de Costa Rica a traves de un
sistema de transporte eficiente y seguro.
En el area vial, CONAVI esta funcionando razonablemente en el mantenimiento de la red vial nacional con
respaldo presupuestario. La Divisidn de Obras Publicas de MOPT provee asistencia a las municipalidades
en el mantenimiento de la red cantonal. En esta forma, se ha logrado un mantenimiento de la red vial
existente mas expedito, contando con recursos especificos, modemos equipos y un sistema de informaci6n
gerencial para el control y seguimiento en la ejecuci6n de las obras.
En el area portuaria, ambos INCOP y JAPDEVA han mejorado sus operaciones en respuesta a las
recomendaciones del plan maestro portuario. CNC esta procediendo a la adjudicaci6n de la concesi6n de
las operaciones portuarias en puerto Caldera y Puntarenas, cuya experiencia podra servir posteriormente
para las concesiones en Puerto Lim6n. Tambien la asistencia persistente a INCOFER esta teniendo buen
resultado en las operaciones del ferrocarril, cuyo patrimonio y operaciones esta en proceso final de
concesi6n y adjudicaci6n
En conjunto, las innovaciones en el sector han mejorado los servicios de transporte de los corredores de
exportaci6n, comunicando el valle central y las zonas de producci6n agricola con los puertos. La
ampliaci6n y mantenimiento de los nexos al exterior a traves de la infraestructura portuaria y
aeroportuaria, mejoraran con la introducci6n de las figuras la concesi6n y la gesti6n de servicios.
VI. DESEMPENO DEL BANCO
La relaci6n con el Banco Mundial ha brindado al pais importantes resultados en el desarrollo de su politica
de Transporte. En particular, la participaci6n del Banco Mundial aportando su vasta experiencia, mostr6
en todo momento gran receptividad proporcionando un apoyo importante y oportuno en las consultas,
recomendaciones y visitas peri6dicas de monitoreo.
VII. DESEMPENO DEL PRESTATARIO
El desempefio del Prestatario se vi6 afectado por diferentes circunstancias como lo fueron la declinaci6n
econ6mica, los cambios de gobierno y el intenso terremoto de 1991 en la zona Atlantica del pais. Ademas,
debido al problema fiscal y a la lentitud en el progreso del proyecto, el gobiemo en 1996 opt6 por contraer
el gasto en el sector publico, al punto de tener que cancelar US$ 12 millones de los fondos de prestamo.
Tambien los procedimientos de contrataci6n dentro del mecanismo estatal no fueron lo suficientemente
agiles y expeditos para llevar a cabo el proyecto en el tiempo previsto. Por todo lo anterior, el proyecto
sufri6 un retrazo de cuatro anios.
Con los resultados obtenidos, MOPT continua en el proceso de transici6n que ha demandado la
reorganizaci6n del sector con los nuevos consejos sectoriales y el seguimiento de los planes anuales y sus
resultados.
- 36 -



