Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Z_A,   302 05l- - ~-
Rfport NNo. 7694-CR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COSTA RICA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
APRIL 23, 1990
Country Department II
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and mas be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents mav not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



r
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                        -               Colon (C)
US$1.00                              =               C  87.00 (April 19, 1990)
C 1 million                          =               US$11,494
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Units of Weight ar.d Measures: Metric System
Metric                                      British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                5                3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)           =                0.62 mile (mi)
1 Kilogram (Kg)            =               2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)       =               2,205 pounds
Abbreviations
DGP                              Directorate of General Planning
ERR                              Economic Rate of Return
FRG                              Federal Republic of Germany
GDEF                             General Directorate of External
Financing
GDMT                             General Directorate of Maritime
Transportation
HDM III                          Highway Design Model-Version 3
ICB                              International Competitive Bidding
IDB                              Inter-American Development Bank
IMP                              Investment and Maintenance Plan
INCOFER                          Railway Authority
INCOP                            Pacific Port Authority
JAPDEVA                          Atlantic Port Authority
LCB                              Local Competitive Bidding
MNREM                            Ministry of Natural Resources,
Energy and Mines.
MOPT                             Ministry of Public Works and
Transport
PCR                              Project Completion Report
PPAR                             Project Performance Audit Report
SDE                              Sub-Division of Equipment
SDM                              Sub-Division of Maintenance
SOE                              Statement of Expenditures
USAID                            U.S. Agency for International
Development



It L, rL FsAUL Ljt tI Lx
COSTA RICA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PROJECT   SUMMARY ....................................    -   iii
I.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ..................... ...                1
A. Transport Development and the Economy .
B. Transport Planning and Coordination.                       2
C. Main Sector Issues .......................,                3
D. Transport Finances and Cost Recovery.                      7
E. Transport Sector Strategy.                                 9
F. Bank Involvement in the Sector .10
G. Bank Strategy .11
H. Rationale for Bank Involvement.                           12
II. THE PROJECT .12
A. Project Origin and Objectives.          ..               l
B. MOPT's Investment and Maintenance Program (IM?)
for 1991-95 .13
C. Project Description ........................       .      14
D. Project Costs .16
E. Execution and Procurement .17
F. Disbursements and Auditing .......... .  ..........       19
G. Economic Justification .20
H. Beneficiaries ...................................         22
I. Environmental Impact .22
J. Assessment of Risks ..........................            23
III.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATI ONS .23
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed
of Messrs. K. Ohbi (Economist), J.C. Sallier (Sr. Engineer), Z. Raanan (Sr.
Financial Analyst,, H. Castro and A. Harding (Consultants), who visited
Costa Rica from August 8 to August 19, 1988, and of a post-appraisal
mission composed of Ms. M. Pokorny (Economist) and Messrs. J. Perrone and
J. Kogan (Consultants) who visited Costa Rica from October 30 to November
8, 1989. Mesdames N. Aran,ibia and M. Leal helped in the preparntion of
the report.
This document has a restricied distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
TABLES:
1.1 Road Network                        ..                           26
1.2 Sector Share of GDP                      .         .             27
2.1   Estimated Schedule of Disbursement              .     .        28
2.2    SunmmAry Economic Evaluatior of the Roads in
the First Year Work Program               . .               29
2.3    Summary Economic Evaluation of the Rehabili-
tation of the Puntarenas Jetty ..............                30
FIGURES:      1.1  Revenues from User vs. Road Expenditures                 31
1.2  Structure of Road User Charges            .     .        32
ANNEXES:  1  Road Transport                         .          .             33
2    Action Plan for the Decentralization of
Cantonal Road Maintenance    . .                      38
3    Rationalization of Railway Services .....                41
4  The Port Sub-Sector                  .        .            54
5    Action Plan for Port Rationalization ....                61
6     Performance Targets of the Project ......               62
7  The IMP and the Project                 .      .          63
8     Road Rehabilitatioi. and Periodic
Maintenance Program               . .                 64
9  Detailed Project Cost                  .       .           71
10   Selected Documents and Data Available in
the Project File ........................ 79
Chart 1 -   Ministry of Public Works and Transport ........                 73
Chart 2 -   Public Works Division .........................                 74
Chart 3 -   Transportation Division .......................                 75
Map:   IBRD 21070



COSTA RICA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrcower:              The Republic of Costa Rica
Loan Amount:            US$60 million equivalent
Terms:                  Repayment in 17 years, including < years if grace,
at the standard variable interest rate.
Executing Agencies:    Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MOPT) for
the road components and technical assistance, the
Pacific Port Authority (INCOP) for the ports
components, and the Railway Authority (INCOFER) for
the railway rationalization plan. The Atlantic Port
Authority (JAPDEVA) would execute the management
information system component.
Project Description:   The project supports institutional measures to
increase the efficiency of the sector and a slice of
MOPT's 1991-9' Investment and Maintenance Program
(IMP). The main institutional measures call for
scaling down the railway, designing a strategy for
the maintenance of Cantonal Roads, improving port
operations, ensuring soundness of the sector's
annual investment programs, and encouraging
increabed participation of the ptivate sector.
The institutional strengtnening measures consist of
technical assistance and training (47) for: (a)
developing a Transport Plan and improving Investment
programming, project preparation and evaluation in
MOPT's Directorate Ge..eral of Planning (DGP); (b)
tariff evaluation in MOPT's tariff section and for
tariff setLcing and costing in TNCOP; Kc)
implementing a pavement management system in DGP and
strengthening road maintenance management in MOPT's
Sub-Division of Maintenance, (d) improving
information management in JAPDEVA; (e) implementing
an action plan to rationalize railway services in
INCOFER; and (f) training for mid level management
in MOPT, JAPDEVA and INCOP. The physical components
are: 1 (i) rehabilitation and upgrading of trunk
roads in the import/export corridors (42Z); (ii)
periodic maintenance of other main roads feeding the
corridors (302); (iii) replacement of the Puntarenas
jetty (9Z); (iv) equipment and tools for (a) road
maintenance, (b) road safety, (c) pavement
management, (d) information systems in MOPT,
INCOFER, INCOP and JAPDEVA (e) grain handling
operations in the port of Calderas, (f) control of
1/ The figures in parentheses refer to the percentage of project costs.



- ii -
In-transit cargo, and (g) rat.l track maintenance
(9?); and (v) engineering and supervision of (i)
through (iii) (6Z).
Benefits:                Quantifiable benefits would accrue to the economy at
large through: (i) reductions in road #'ransport
costs resulting from improved road conditions; (ii)
reductions in ship waiting time resulting from
rehabiliLation of the Puntarenas jetty and port
productivity improvements in Caldera; and (iii)
increase in efficiency resulting from restructuring
railway services. The project has also non-
quantifiable benefits related to improvements in the
tiansport sector arising from the technical
assistance and training under the project.
Risks:                   The project would face no important technical risks
and no adverse environmental impact. Because of the
project's policy emphasis, there are risks related
to the Government's commitment and abil_ty to
implement the needed institutional reforms. In the
particular case of the restructuring of railway
operations, the contract-program signed between the
railways and the Ministry of Public Works and
Transport, the Ministry of Finance and MIDEPLAN
state the obligations of the parties regarding the
future development of the railways. Another risk is
related to the availability of counterpart funds for
the road component, which may lead to slower than
planned execution. To reduce this risk, MOPT will
maintain a project account with an initial deposit
of US$1.2 million equivalent.
Economic evaluation:   Annual work programs for the rehabilitation and
periodic maintenance of roads would be evaluated
according to agreece economic and technical criteria
and eligible subprojects would have to yield a
minimum 12Z economic rate of return (ERR). The
estimated ERR for the first year work program for
roads is 35Z and for the replacement of the
Puntarenas jetty and minor investments in grain
handling at Caldera it is 322.



- {ii -
Proiect Costs:
Components                             Local          Foreign       Total
- -------USS million-----------_
Institutional ProRram!                  1.0            2.2            3.2
Roads
Rehabilitation/Improvements             9.1           23.6           32.7
Periodic Maintenance                    6.7           17.1           23.8
Equipment
Road Maintenance, Pavement              0.2            7.4             7.6
Management, Grain Handling,
Laboratoriel, Information
Systems and Traffic Safety
Ports
Constructicn of Puntarenas Jetty        2.6            3.9            6.5
Engineering & Supervision               3,1            1.6            4.7
Base Cost                              22..'          5J.8           78.5
Contingencies
Physical                               2.0            5.0            7.0
Price                                  3.8            7.6           11.4
Total Costs                            28.5            58.4          96.9
Estimated Financing Plan
Government of Costa Rica               28.5            8.4           36.9
IBRD                                    -             6).0           60.0
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year
1991      1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
----------------(US$ millions)----------------
Annual                9.6      12.8    16.5    11.4       7.7     2.0
Cumulative            9.6      22.4    38.9    50.3    58.0    60.0



I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.        Transport Development and the Economy
1.01     With about 51,000 sq. km of area and 2.7 million inhabitants,
Costa Rica is one of the smallest countries in the region. About half of
the population lives in urban areas, concentrated in about 3,250 sq. km of
the central valley. The country has a 300 km northern border with
Nicaragua and a 363 km southern border with Panama. Costa Rica's transport
system is formed primarily by about 35,000 km of roads (Table 1.1), two
main port complexes (Lim6n/Moin on the Atlantic and Puntarenas/Celdera on
the Pacific), the railway network linking the two port complexes via San
Jose, the Juan Santamaria international airport and a pipeline connecting
the refinery on the Atlantic coast to the central valley where most of the
fuel is consumed. Minor ports and airports and some inland waterways
complete the system (Map No. IBRD 21070). San Jose is 160 km from the main
port complex of Lim6n/Moin on the Atlantic Coast and 90 km from the
Calderas/Puntarenas port complex on the Pacific Coast. The resulting short
distance haulage coupled with the country's rugged terrain makes roads the
preferred mode of transport.
).02     During the 1970's the expansion of basic infrastructure and a
sharp increase in social sector expenditures contributed to a GDP growth
averaging nearly 62 per year. At the same time, Costa Rica's public
education, health and welfare programs placed the zountry's social indices
among the highest in the Western Hemisphere. The public sector-led
development, however, resulted in growing public deficits tihat were
incrpasingly financed by mounting domestic and external debt   In the ear!.y
1980s, when international cor.ditions d¶eteriorated and foreign financing to
Costa Rica dwindled, the country fell into its most severe recession in 30
years; in 1982, GDP dropped by over 7Z and the annual rate of inflation
reached 90Z. To address th,ese problems, successive administrations have
had to engage in stabilization and adjustment programs which ruccgssfully
resulted in the virtual elimination of the non-financial public sector
deficit.
1.03     The Government is now embarked in a recovery effort that
adequately stresses export promotion and diversification.  This expansion
will certainly lead to renewed claims on the country'" transport sector.
However, past adjustments were achieved largely by slaehing capital
expenditures and the economic arid social infrastructure of the country has
begun to show increasing degrees of deterioration. Thus, public investment
wculd have to increase in several sectors to stop and reverse this
deteriorating trend. Since tight budgetary constraints are likely to
remain in the medium term, it Is essential to :eview the economic and
social priorit.es for public sector expenditures, tsrget investment
according to tnese priorities, and improve the overall efficiency of public
sector programs.
1.04     The future dev.elopment and improvement of transport infrastructure
will be shaped by Costa Rica's heavy reliance on the export of agricultural
commodities, which are sensitive to both the cost and the reliability of



-2-
domestic transportation facilities. Its imports consist primarily of
petroleum products and intermediate and capital goods. Particularly for
exports, the demand for transportation has traditionally been dominated by
bananas, which account for about 602 of the country's export tonnage.
Bananas are produced mainly in the Atlantic Province and hauled about 50 km
for export through Moin. About one third of the bananas are transported by
rail and the rest by road. The other major export commodities are cement,
coffee, sugar and meat which altogether account for about 242 of export
tonnage. In line with the size of the country, transport distances are
characteristically small. The average haul distances for about 1.2 billion
ton kilometers of freight moved annually are 102 km for the railway and 120
km for road transport.   As already mentioned, given the short haul
distances and the rugged topography, the road has a clear advantage over
the railway.
1.05     About 53% of the freight movements are domestic with the remaining
47Z oriented toward foreign trade. Overall, 93% of the freight is moved by
road and the remaining 72 by rail. Nearly all passenger traffic of around
7 billion passenger kilometers annually is by road. Although the share of
air in domestic passenger and domestic cargo transport has been declining
rapidly in recent years, both the international air passenger and ca-go
traffic have shown consistent growth since 1980 with the internatienal
passenger traffic growing at about 2.5Z and international cargo at 8.41
annually. The growth of international air cargo traffic, particularly
since 1984, reflects the growing importanze of non-traditional exports in
Costa Rica's merchandise exports.
1.06     The relative importance of each transport mode's contribution to
GDP is shown in Table 1.2. Over half of the value added by the sector to
the GDP has historically been by the road sector. Maritime and fluvial
transport's share has stabilized at 17Z of the total value added by the
sector to GDP whereas the contribution of rail has declined consistently to
the present 4.5Z, in line with its diminishing role in the sector.
B. Transport Planning and Coordination
1.07     MOFT has overall authority in matters of transport policy,
planning and coordination (Chart I). It carries out its transport
responsibilities through two of its Divisions: (i) Public Works, of which
the General Directorates of Roads (GDR) and Port and River Works (DGOP) are
part (Chart II), and (ii) Transportation (Chart III). Under the Transport
Division, the General Directorate of Maritime Transport (GDMT) is
responsible for ports and shipping, the General Directorate of Civil
Aviation (GDCA) is responsible for airports and air traffic while the
General Directorate of Road Transport (GDRT) is responsible for the
trucking industry. The policing and enforcement of the transport
regulations are the responsibility of the General Directorate of Traffic
Po,lice (GDTP) while the road safety policy formulation is the
responsibility of the General Directorate of Road Safety (GDRS) within the
Transportation Division. The General Directorate of Railways (GDR) in the
Transport Division is in charge of regulations and tariff control for the
railway.
1.08     While moua' plans are executed and coordinated by the specific
Divisions of MOPT, the overall sector planning responsibility falls on the



- 3 -
Directorate General of Planning (DGP). DGP reports directly to the
Minister and works within the framework of the National Planning Law of
1979, which subordinated all publil and autonomous institutions to the
overall national development planning process. Economic planning at the
national level is the responsibility of the Ministry of Economic Planning.
The transport planning mechanism was considerably strengthened by the
establishment at DGP of a planning and coordinating department, with
jurisdiction over all modes, to prepare integrated transpo:t plans and
investment programs, formulate policy and foster intermodal coordination.
While the Government is committed to strengthening transport planning, it
experienced, in the past, institutional problems with the ports and
railways, which retained in practice a substantial degree of independence
and carried out their plans without due regard to intermoda. relations and
proper feasibility analysis. In general, there is a need to expand the
planning framework to encompass piuriannual programs based on economic
criteria and closely link them to the budgeting process. The improvement
of transport planning and coordination is an objective of the project,
which would help DGP with the formulation of transport policy and
investment plans for the sector as well as strengthen planning and
operations at the modal level (paras. 1.16 and 2.13).
C. Main Sector Issues
1.09     There are four main sector issues: (i) road maintenance; (i.i)
transport sector management; (iii) role of the railway; and, (iv) ports
productivity. The following paragraphs present these issues and the
pruposais to address them:
(i) Road Maintenance
1.10     With about 0.69 km of roads per kilometer square of surface area,
Costa Rica's road density is comparable to that of the United States (Annex
1). Up to recently, MOPT focused mainly on road building, while road
maintenan,e received insufficient attention. This weakness in management
of the road sul'sector is illustrated by the poor physical condition of the
national and Cantonal (secondary) road system and the existence of a
backlog of rehabilitation and periodic maintenance. MOPT is nominally
responsible for the maintenance of only about a fifth of the country's
35,000 km of roads (about 7,000 kms) of which about 3,300 are paved. The
municipalities, whicb are responsible for the Cantonal roads, cannot
maintain theirs for want of financial and technical resources. As a
result, MOPT is pressed to use part of the resources appropriated for the
maintenance of the national roads to do urgent works on the Cantonal roads.
Since the available resources are insufficient, neither road system is
satisfactorily maintained and the high priority roads in the country's
import/export corridors are showing increasing distress. Under these
conditions, rational planning, programming and execution of maintenance is
not possible.
1.11     The Government recognizes that in the absence of firm arrangements
for the rehabilitation and maintenance of Cantonal roads, MOPT will
continue to face pressures to neglect the maintenance of high priority
national roads in favor of the Cantonal roads, with a strong risk that
neither of the networks would be adequately maintained. To address this.
problem, the Government presented an action plan for ;he rehabilitation and



maintenance of the Cantonal road system, including annual physical targets
to be achieved and proposed sources of funding. The plan is based on the
rehabilitation and improvement of 556 km of feeder roads during the period
1991-1995 with financing mostly expected tc be provided by IDB, which
already approved a technical cooperation loan tor the related feasibility
studies. During negotiations it was agreed that the Government would carry
out its 1991-1995 plan for the rehabilitation and maintenance of the
Cantonal Road System, and would review with the Bank, no later than June 30
of each year its compliance with the Plan during the previous year and
inform the Bank on the proposed modifications of the plan (para. 3.01 (a)).
Also, the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) is financing the maintenance of
about 10,000 km of gravel and earth roads and the acquisition as well as
rehabilitation of road maintenance equipment.
1.12     While the agreed plan ensures in the medium run a clear division
of the resources allocated to each of the networks, it does not provide a
permanent solution to shield MOPT from the pressures of attending the needs
of the Cantonal roads on the basis of other than economic criteria. There
is therefore a need to develop a strategy for the gradual delegation to the
Municipalities of the responsibility that the law confers them to maintain
the Cantonal road network. An existing US/AID study, together with the
study to be carried out with IDB assistance, should provide a solid basis
on which to develop detailed institutional and financial proposals to
assist the Municipalities in discharging their road maintenance
responsibilities. To this end, the Government developed an action plan,
satisfactory to the Bank for the gradtual decentralization of Cantonal roads
maintenance (Annex 2 and para. 3.01 (b)). The plan provides the foundation
for strengthening the technical and financial capabilities of the
Municipalities to carry out road maintenance.
1.13     To a great extent because of the lack of skilled and semi-skilled
field labor (para. 1.15), MOPT's capacity to carry out force accourt works
have been reduced. As a result. MOPT has been steadily increasing the
proportion of road maintenance by contract. In 1986, the share of
expenditures on contracts was 111, while in 1989 it reached 44Z of the
total funds budgeted for road maintenance. During negotiations it was
agreed that the Government would increase the use of contractors in the
periodic maintenance of the primary and secondary roads with the objective
of reaching a contractor's participation rate of 651 of the aggregate
MOPT's expenditures related to such periodic maintenance by December 31,
1992 (para. 3.01 (k)).
(ii) Transport Sector Management
1.14     The present institutional setting of MOPT for transport sector
management is, in general, adequate. In particular, the unit responsible
for planning transport investments has developed a good capability for
appraising trarsport projects, reflecting lasting achievements of the
involvement of the Bank and of other multilateral development agencies.
DGP, however, has not been successful in enforcing its directives and has
inadequate communications with the other Directorates of MOPT. Thus,
MOPT's budget proposals have not been based on any systematic evaluation of
needs and there are often significant discrepancies between the works for
which the budgets were approved and the works actually executed.



- - -
1.15     Recently, in response to fiscal difficulties, a more consistent
approach is emerging for programming investments and recurrent
expenditures. The offices in charge of road maintenance and equipment have
been reorganized, their responsibilities have been redefined and their
status has been raised within MOPT's organizational hierarchy as the new
Sub-Division of Maintenance (SDM) and the Sub-Division of Equipment (SDE).
SDh and SDE now report to MOPT's Chief Engineer, the Director General oc
the Divisiun of Public Works. While these are steps in the right
direction, there is still the need to address HOPT's weaknesses stemming
from: (i) the diffusion of responsibilities and duplication of functions
resulting in lack of accountability; (ii) ad-hoc hiring practices causing
an unjustified increase of administrative personnel at the expense of
aemi-skilled and skilled field labor; and (iii) lack of career incentives
at Lhe professional and techn,ical levels.
1.16     To enhance transport sector management capabilities would req¶.,ire
the development and implementation of a plan for MOPT's reorganization
including, inter alia, measures for staff reductions, better delegation of
responsibilities and increased accountability at the mid-management level,
and resource use improvements.  Under the proposed project, technical
assistance will be provided to GDP for developing a Transport Plan (para.
2.13) with special emphasis on sector monitoring, assessment of urban and
inter-urban transport proiects and policy formulation, and an assesrment of
the need for expanding ports and airports infrastructure. The consultants
in charge of this technical assistance will also carry out a study of
MOPT's organization and propose measures for strengthening transport sector
management by March 31, 1993. Not later than June 30, 1993 the Government
should present an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for the
implementation of the study's recommendations (para. 3.01 (o)). To
consolidate MOPT's recent improvements, the proposed project also includes
technical assistance for the implementation of a pavement management
system. This would enable the reorganized SDM to make better use of the
road maintenance management system developed during implementation of the
Fifth Highway Project (para. 1.38). In a parallel and complementary
effort, the ongoing FRG project is aimed at strengthening SDE through,
inter alia, technical assistance and training, and implementation of an
equipment management system to improve equipment availability and its
utilization.
(iii) Future Role of the Railway
1.17     As the country's road system developed and industry emerged, the
railway's economic justification became increasingly questionable.
Whereas the railway carried about 1.7 million tons of cargo until the early
80s, in 1983 the volume started to drop dramatically, reaching 0.8 million
tons in 1985. Several reasons contributed to this fall, of which the most
important are the opening up of competing roads, a deterioration of railway
services and the movement of fruit export frum Lim6n, the traditional pert
for railway traffic, to the Port of Moin. Since 1985, however, there has
been a slow but steady growth in the tonnage moved by the railway and it is
estimated that it will reach 1.0 million by the end of 1989. Annex 3
provides a detailed assessment of the railway system and the major issues
affecting it.



-6-
1.18     Past investments in electrification and track rehabilitation have
not yielded the expected results: the condition of both the track and
rolling stock is poor. Operations are inefficient and the quality of
service is deficient compared with the trucking industry. Under the
present scale of activity, the revenues from operations cover only 65? of
personnel costs, and increasing amounts of subsidies have been needed to
balance the railway's cash flow. The Government has now agreed that the
railway has not adapted to the present economic situation and that
continuing operations with the current standards would be wasteful.
1.19     The Government, faced with mounting public finance difficulties,
has decided to gradually eliminate all subsidies to INCOFER. To this end,
the Ministries involved (MOP, Finance and Planning) together with INCOFER,
have agreed on an action plan, with the format of a contract-program
between the Ministries and INCOFER. The program calls for the elimination
of the railway operational deficit by 1994 through the suppression of
uneconomic services, staff reductions, increa-,ed revenues, and improvements
in managerial capabilities. Their goal is to make INCOFER a commercially
oriented enterprise 'edicated to those commodities where there appears to
be profitable opportunities. The action plan, which covers the
operational, financial and labor redundancy targets for the 1990-1993
period, has been found acceptable by the Bank. An assessment of
satisfactory progress in implementing the action plan would be a condition
for loan effectiveness (para. 3.02) and failure to continue implementing it
satisfactorily would constitute default under the loan (para. 3.01 (c)).
(iv) Ports Productivity
1.20     Significant investments in ports were made in the mid 1970s and
early 1980s (notably Moin on the Atlantic and Caldera on the Pacific Coast)
to accommodate the country's increasing port traffic. However, the
physical expansion and modernization of the infrastructure were not
accompanied by similar modernization of work methods, elimination of
monopolistic labor practices and other institutional arrangements in the
ports (Annex 4). As A result, port costs remain comparatively high to
users, particularly in Limon/Moin, with the resulting negative effect on
the competitiveness of Costa Rican exports. During negotiations the
Government and the Bank agreed on an action plan for the rationalization of
port operations (para. 3.01 (b) and Annex 5). The plan includes an
assessment and ensuing recommendations to address the major institutional
and operational issues of the sector and provides specific measures in the
areas of financial management and operational efficiency of INCOP.
1.21     Under the present trends of port traffic, the country will
probably reach the limit of its physical capacity to handle expected
traffic in five years time. To estimate the longer term needs on the
Atlantic ports, studies are underway to revise a Master Plan for the Port
of Moin (financed through assistance from FRG). The overall development
needs of the country's port system will be one of the subjects of the
technical assistance for the development of a Transport Plan (para. 2.13).
1.22     Whereas the foregoing studies will determine the physical capacity
needs of the country's ports in the medium-run, on the Pacific coast there
is an incipient congestion problem that needs immediate attention.
Because the structurally unsafe jetty at Puntarenas has been closed to



-7-
ships, grain imports which used to be handled there are now diverted to
Caldera which also handles the growing demand from cruise ships.  Since
port operations were not efficient to begin with, additional traffic has
created delays and congestion.  In addition, siltation problems in Caldera
require a substantial dredging effort, and contribute to limit its
capacity.  Under the proposed proiect, assistance is envisaged for
improving port operations, particularly grain handling in Caldera,
improving its management information system, carrying out a study to
propose the best solution to the siltation problem (includi.    inter-alia,
related environnmental impact assessments) and rebuilding the untarenas
jetty for the exclusive use of cruise ships. The works would be undertaken
as a matter of urgency to decongest Calaera. Also, there is considerable
scope for improving port operations through strengthening management and
upgrading work methods. In particular, for JAPDEVA. the project seeks to
improve its costing system and information management. Similarly, there is
need to strengthen the tariff section of GDMT. At present tariffs are not
based on costs and an objective of the project is to improve the cost
accounting system so that later in time cost-based tariffs can be developed
and applied (paras. 2.11 to 2.13).
D. Transport Finances and Cost Recovery
(i) The Road Suosector
1.23     The current level of road user charges generates over 100I   cost
recovery. Figure 1.1 compares the total current and capital expenditures
in the subsector with the revenues generated by user charges. Between 1975
and 1980 the Government outlays in the road subsector were marginally
superior to the revenues generated by the user charges. Since 1982, these
revenues have continued to exceed expenditures in expanding and maintaining
road infrastruc.ure.
1.24     Overall, the structure of the road user charges is satisfactory in
that heavy vehicles cover the assignable road usage costs and that over 80%
of the revenues are generated by taxes on the consumption of fuels and
motor oils (Figure 1.2). Retail fuel prices are currently about US$540 per
metric ton for gasoline and US$319 per metric ton for diesel which are
about 2.4 and 2.6 times higher, respectively, than their corresponding
border prices.  Import duties on vehicles and parts have constituted
between 1OZ to 142 of the revenues generated by road users in recent years.
Annual registrations and tolls make up for the rest. Less than one percent
of the total revenues (tolls) are earmarked for policing and enforcement cf
the highway code and safety regulations. The remaining 99X go directly to
the Government's general revenue chest.
(ii) The Port Subsector
1.25     JAPDEVA in the Atlantic and INCOP in the Pacific, although
constituted as autonomous port authorities with full financial autonomy,
are in fact no more than port operating companies. In the case of INCOP,
all operations are carried out by force account, whether services to or on
the ships or services to cargo on shore. In the case of JAPDEVA, services
on board the ships (stevedoring) are in the hands of three stevedoring
companies which contract directly with the ship-owners for these services.
Other services, such as pilotage, mooring and towage are all provided by



- 8 -
JAPDEVA. JAPDEVA also receives royalty payments from the stevedoring
companies operating in the port. In addition, JAPDEVA has development
responsibilities for the Atlantic coast region.
1.26     Although the laws setting up the two port authorities require the
transfer of lands and installations from the Government to them, such a
transfer of assets has not yet taken place nor (with one exception during
1984 and 1985 in JAPDEVA), has any mechanism been created for the recovery
of the investments made by the Government in the ports. The Port
Authorities have been unable to-date to generate sufficient capital for
infrastructure investments, which have been funded by the Government, by
foreign grants and by loans. In the absence of depreciation allowances for
such investments out of current revenues, the flow of funds for future
investments would require alternative sources of capital. At negotiations,
it was agreed that INCOP would achieve Working and Operating Ratios of no
more than 85Z and 932 respectively by 1992 and maintain no worse a
financial performance thereafter (Annex 6). This represents an increase
with respect to the 1988 operating and working ratios (92Z and 84Z,
respectively) due to INCOP's expected contribution of about 35? of planned
investments and increases in working costs related to dredging needs. This
ratios will be based on operating costs which include a depreciation
allowance on all Port of Caldera's infrastructure, whether such
infrastructure has been transferred to INCOP's ownership or not. It was
also agreed that INCOP would also set aside funds for dredging in order to
ensure continuous availability of the berths at Caldera (paras. 3.01 (b)
and Annex 5).
1.27     Government invest-ent in the ports during the years 1980 to 1986
was approximately US$25 miilion per year. This includes costs for the
completion of Moin port _nstallations and a new container wharf in Limon,
as well as the completion of the construction of the new port of Caldera on
the Pacific coast. Of the investments in Lim6n/Moin, about US$9.2 million
was recovered and transferred to the Government in 1984 and in 1985 by
means of a special capital levy on port services in those ports. However
the charge was discontinued and no permanent mechanism for recovery of
capital costs has since been introduced. Any proposed project for JAPDEVA
will therefore have to address the need to introduce capital recovery
charges. Details of the financial performance of the two port authorities
and financial projections for INCOP have been entered into the project
file.
(iii) The Railway Subsector
1.28     When the present railway authority (INCOFER) was established by
law in 1985, it was already evident that the railway in its existing form
could not be financially autonomous. The law therefore provided for a tax
on all banana exports (whether by rail or road) to generate additional
funding for INCOFER. Furthermore, an annual government budget allocation
was foreseen to fi-nance railway maintenance works. The Government also
assumed the considerable debts accumulated by the previous railway
organization, FECOSA, an affiliate of the Costa Rica Development
Corporation (CODESA).
1.29     The annual freight traffic carried out by INCOFER decreased from
about 2 million tons in 1981, when nearly all the banana crop and much of



-9-
the cargo from the two principal ports was carried by rail, to less than 1
million tons in 1988. Passenger traffic, on the other hand remained fairly
stable, at about 2 million a year during that period, largely due to the
heavily subsidized fares when compared to road transport and staff
privileges in the form of free travel.
1.30     Since 1987 the Government decided to gradually end all subsidies
to the railway. INCOFER has consequently been increasing its marketing
-'_orts, closing some loss-making services, and has managed to diminish its
staff by nearly 10% through natural attrition and transfers to other
Government agencies.  Nevertheless, unless further drastic measures
involving the reduction of services to the Pacific coast, eliminating less-
than-car-load services, and discontinuing the passenger services on the
Atlantic line are taken, INCOFER cannot avoid making further losses.
1.31     As discussed in paragraph 1.19, to ensure that the conditions for
an orderly restructuring of the railways are in place, INCOFER and MOPT,
and the Ministries of Finance and Planning agreed on a four-year action
plan leading to the railways financial autonomy. The basic points of the
plan are: (i) staff reductions from the present 2,329 to 1,288 by 1993;
(ii) suppression of non-economic passenger services and less-than-car-
loads; (iii) increase revenues by 412 in real terms by 1993, through
traffic increases averaging 8% per year and real tariff increases averaging
1  per year; and (iv) reduce Government tralksfezs from ¢ 325.0 million in
1990 to ¢ 130.9 million in 1993. Ry 1994 INCOFER is expected to generate a
slight operational surplus.
1.32     The Action Plan, which takes the form of a contract-program
detailing the obligations of all the parties involved, includes as a
mechanism for monitoring its implementation, the appointment of an
Implementation Committee within 60 days of contract signature.  The main
functions of the Committee would be to:
a)  follow-up the implementation of the contract-program through the
analysis of INCOFER's Quarterly and Annual Reports;
b)  propose changes to the contract-program to update its yearly
objectives; and
c)  prepare, within 30 days of the reception of INCOFER's Annual
Report, a Report to the Government on the degree of compliance
with the contract objectives, the reasons for any observed
deviations, and the recommendations for the future implementation
of the contract-program
The appointment of the Implementation Committee would be a condition for
loan effectiveness (para. 3.02).
E.   Transport Sector Strategy
1.33     The Government macroeconomic programs have been making
satisfactory progress in restoring fiscal balance and now the main focus is
in resuming sustainable economic growth. Its strategy is to look to the
private sector to take the lead in productive activities, and the promotion
of exports is one of the central policies for carrying out this strategy.



- 10 -
For the transportation sector Government efforts will concentrate in
providing the appropriate infrastructure and the level of service to
enhance the competitiveness of Costa Rican products. It also involves the
elimination of the fiscal drain caused by the inefficiencies of the railway
and some ports services.
1.34     In particular, the Government's priorities in the transport sector
are to improve the quality and reliability of the main export corridors
through road rehabilitation and maintenance, to restructire railway
services and to reduce congestion in the Pacific port system and
rationalize port operations in the Atlantic. Emphasis is also given to the
general step-up of the road maintenance effort, in the context of a
comprehensive set of policies to decentralize the maintenance of Cantonal
roads and increase the participation of the private sector in the execution
of road works.   The prioritization of expenditures, in line with
investment efficiency criteria, the implementation of adequate levels of
cost recovery, and environmental concerns also play a prominent role in the
Government's sector agenda.
F. Bank Involvement in the Sector
1.35     The proposed project would be the seventh loan by the Bank in
Costa Rica's transport sector. An important lesson from past projects is
that lack of effective coordination was the major cause of delays in
project completion and that untimely and insufficient availability of
counterpart funds contributed to the delays. This pattern emerged starting
with the First Highway Project (Loan 299-CR/Credit 10-CR, US$11.0 million)
in 1961.
1.36     In 1970, a second Bank project (Loan 664-CR, US$15.7 million) was
undertaken, comprising, essentially, construction of a new 57-km two-lane
highway between Siquirres and Limon. The Project Completion Report (PCR)
dated August 31, 1977 and the Project Performance Audit Report of June 1978
(PPAR) concluded that the project was successfully executed. At the end of
1972, the Bank made a US$1.4 million loan for a Highway Studies Project
(Loan 872-CR). The PCR and PPAR mentioned above also reviewed the
execution of this project and concluded that the studies were
satisfactorily carried out. The PPAR also concluded that the initial
progress achieved in highway maintenance had subsequently fallen off,
mainly because of diversion of equipment and maintenance budget away from
the national roads to rural road construction and impr"vem.ent  crks   The
Borrower complied only partially with the Loan Agreement requirements
regarding highway maintenance, partly because the ministry's focus was on
construction.
1.37     The Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1187-CR. US$39 million) was
approved in December 1975. The main project component was the construction
of the San Jose-Rio Sucio-Siquirres road (about 96 km) and of the Rio
Sucio-Puerto Viejo branch road (about 29 km). The project also comprised
strengthening of MOPT's vehicle weighing and civil works supervision
capability as well as technical assistance for the preparation of a
National Transport Plan and improving urban transport in the metropolitan
area of San Jose. The project was completed satisfactorily, albeit with
cost overruns. The technical assistance component was successful in



- 11 -
forming a core of professionals in DGP knowledgeable in the techniques of
project evaluation and transport planning.
1.38     The work done for the National Transport Plan provided the
foundation for preparation of the Fifth Highway Project (Loan 1845-CR,
US$30 million, May 1980), which shifted the focus of Bank projects from
construction to maintenance and rehabilitation. The Project, which was
satisfactorily completed in 1987, included the establishment of a road
maintenance management system. This project also suffered delays because
of earlier coordination problems and the erratic availability of
counterpart funds.
1.39     The Bank Group also supported 107 km of feeder road improvement in
the Canton of Perez Zeledon, included in the Agricultural Credit and
Development Project (Loan 1410-CR, June 1977, US$18.0 million; Credit
872-CR, June 1977, US$9.0 million, of which US$0.8 million was for roads).
This project provided a fruitful opportunity to assess the requirements for
effective cooperation between MOPT and the Cantons. Nonetheless, as
already stated, Bank experience shows that in the absence of satisfactory
arrangements for the maintenance of Cantonal roads, MOPT will continue to
face considerable pressures for allocating resources approved for the
national roads maintenance to the maintenance of the Cantonal roads.
1.40     The lessons learned from past projects have been taken into
account in the design of the proposed project. The past record of poor
coordination is attributable, to a certain extent, to insufficient
understanding of project objectives and to overlapping responsibilities for
execution. Hence, the Government has decided to make MOPT fully
responsible for the proposed Transport Sector Project, which was prepared
with the active participation of MOPT's relevant Directorates. A
Coordinating Group under the Minister of Public Works and Transport will be
responsible for overall project coordination (para. 2.16). Also, the
preparation of annual work p:ograms with such a scope to permit, during
normal supervision, early r:etection of implementation problems and
incorporation of correctiv2 measures to prevent similar problems for
subsequent work programs. should help to smooth project implementation
(para. 3.01 (f)). To overcome the untimely or insufficient availability of
counterpart funds, MOPT agreed to set up a project account in a bank with
an initial deposit of US$1.2 million. Compliance with this requirement
will be a condition for loan effectiveness (paras. 3.01 (d) and 3.02).
Also, to improve project implementation, when 50Z of the loan funds have
been committed the Bank and the Borrower will carry out an in-depth mid-
term review of progress in project execution. Annex 6 presents the
performance targets for the project.
G. Bank Strategy
1.41     In response to Costa Rica's financial and economic difficulties
the Bank strategy in recent years has concentrated on implementing
structural reforms for scaling down tha size of the public sector, placing
increased reliance on the market mechanisms and opening the economy. The
proposed transport secto. project supports these objectives by (a)
focusing, for the first time, on the sector as a whole and ensuring that
the investment programs for the sector is consistent with the macroeconomic
framework and respond to technical and economic criteria: (b) promoting



- 12 -
improvements in efficiency and consequently reductions in the costs of
transport; (c) seeKing to eliminate the drain on the Government's finances
caused by the railway deficits from the Government revenues; and (d)
promoting sound pricing policies.
H. Rationale for Bank Involvement.
1.42     Through six interventions in the road subsector, the Bank has
assisted MOPT in setting up the basic apparat.3 for the planning,
programming and execution of investments in the sector. The positive
institution building advances initiated under the previous Bank-financed
projects, and which would be further supported and consolidated under this
operation, need a continuous, systematic and consistent approach. Because
of its long term involvement with the transport sector, the Bank is better
placed than other agencies to pursue these objectives. Moreover, building
on past experience, there is now an opportunity to assist the Goverrment to
address the key issues of efficiency in the port and railway subsectors, in
which the Bank had not been hitherto directly involved. The proposed
project would promote institutional strengthening and sound investment
oolicies on a sector wide basis.  It would assist the Government to improve
transport conditions in the import/export corridors in line with the
strategy of promoting increased exports.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Objectives
2.01     The proposed project originated as a follow-up to previous
projects in the highways sector. It was felt that a broader sectoral
approach, which took into account needs for intermodal coordination was
warranted. Mactoeconomic concerns, such as export development and fiscal
deficit reduction served to shape the project. The physical works to be
funded provide a response to the evolving needs of the aging transport
infrastructure and the emphasis given to export promotion in the country's
economic strategy. In order to keep the transport costs of exports at
levels that help increase the competitiveness of Costa Rican good;, the
management and maintenance of transport infrastructure assume high
priority. This requires the implementation of polLcies to improva sectoral
efficiency and make optimal use of existing facili:ies mainly through
rehabilitation of the aging sections of the transport corridor:.. periodic
maintenance of priority links and systematic routiae maintenance to
preserve infrastructu.e investments. MOPT's proposals for road
rehabilitation and maintenance are in line with these priorities. The
Government authorities support the project objectives which are to:
i)   assist the Government's efforts tc promote exports by improving
the quality ani reliability of transportE.tion in the ma:.n
corridors;
ii)   assist the Government to improve the eff:.ciency of reso.rce use by
strengthening transport sector managemen: and rationalizing the
provision of railway and port services.



-13 -
2.02     To achieve its objectives, the proposed project would assist MOPT
to improve transport efficiency in the Atlantic and Pacific corridors and
enhance its planning capabilities; assist INCOP to improve its operational
productivity and rationalize its tariff structure, assist JAPDEVA in
implementing a management information system, and assist INCOFER in scaling
down railway services. Specific components of the project are described in
paragraphs 2.07 onwards.
B. MOPT's Investment and Maintenance Program (IMP) for 1991-95
2.03     For the 1991-1995 period, the Government of Costa Rica projects
increases in total public expenditures at a rate consistent with price
stahility and economic growth; the latter based on policies to stimulate
private sector investments and exports. This increase is justified in view
of the considerable backlog of urgently required investments accumulated
during the early 80s and the last two years, when funding levels were
severely curtailed. In terms of functional composition the projected
allocation emphasizes exp)enditures in maintenance and rehabilitation of
economic infrastructure. The priorities for the medium term are
agriculture, where expenditures have been cut sharply in 1988, and the
transport, telecommunications and power sectors, which are essential for
the development of the private sector especially for non-traditicnal
exports. Details of the IMP for the transport sector are discussed below.
2.04     The !MP reflects the current priorities of the Government to
finish projects in advarnced stages of constructicn and rehabilitate the
aging road network, institute a regular cycle of periodic maintenance and
address the issue of roLtine maintenance. In addition, the Government has
included investments to alleviate congestion in .he the port of Caldera and
possible investnment3 in infrastructure to reduce congestion in the San Jose
metropolitan area.
2.05     Over t-.e periodl 199: -95. the IMP projects total expenditures
amounting to US$,554 milLion or about US$110.8 million per year, an increase
of about 27X, in real terms, with respect to the investment and maintenance
expenditures incurred in 1984, the peak year for investments in the sector.
This level of expenditures is in line with the Government's investment
strategy minimizirg corrbined transport infrastructure and user costs and of
stimulating private investments and exports. Planned expenditures in the
sector would represent about 3Z of GDP per year , up from the 1.3Z
registered in 1988, ancl comparable to the share of 1984 and the years
preceding the 1982 crisis. In terms of total pullic sector expenditures,
transport outlays for the 1991-1995 period amous,t to 7.4Z, as compared to
the average share of 7 6Z during the 1980-1988 period. Out of the total
program, about 86Z of :he planned expenditures itre for the road subsector,
about 5Z for civil aviation and the remaining 9. for ports and river works.
No investments are pla--ined for the railway. Th? program iF economically
balanced taking into account budget constraints, and all investments
included in the 'MP are economically justified (para. 3.01 (h)).
2.06     The composition of the IMP is satisfactory (Annex 7).  New road
construction accounts for 21% of the total outlays, in line with the sector
priorities. Projected traffic volumes on the roads planned to be
constructed indicate that they are economicall) justified. The IPM's
emphasis on road rehatilitation and improvements, about 45Z of the total



- 14 -
investments in the road subsector, reflects the needs of the aging netaork.
Routine maintenance expenditures would average US$15.4 million per year
which is over two times the amount allocated in the past. Historically,
the sources of MOPT's budget have been a mixture of domestic resources and
foreign loans. During 1980-87, about one half the budget has come from
domestic resources with the other half being accounted for by foreign
loans. Fifty two percent of the IMP expenditures are planned to be
financed through domestic resources and 48Z through foreign borrowings.
The improvement of the road maintenance planning, programming and budgeting
process under the project, coupled with increased mobilization of local
resources to attend the needs of Cantonal roads, are expected to result in
a greater reliance on domestic funds to carry out road maintenance works.
In the long-term, road maintenance will become self-sustainable, without
the need to resort to foreign financing. To reflect this, Bank
participation in funding periodic maintenance works is on a declining basis
(para. 2.22). During negotiations agreement was reached on the scope and
content of the IMP as well as on its annual updating (paras. 3.01 (g) and
(h)).
C. Proiect Description
2.07     The project supports institutional measures to increase the
efficiency of the transport sector and consists of a slice of MOPT's
1991-1995 Investment and Maintenance Program and of institutional
strengthening measures. The selected investments are shown in comparison
with the IMP in Annex 7. Selection of the IMP's components to be financed
under the project was carried out on the basis of continuity of the Bank
involvement in the rehabilitation and maintenance of the federal roads
network and the urgency of relieving congestion in the port of Caldera.
They comprise road rphabilitation and maintenance, replacement of the
Puntarenas Jetty, and equipment acquisition. The main institutional
measures call for scaling down the railway, designing a strategy lor the
maintenance of Cantonal Roads, improving port operations, ensuring
soundness of the sector's annual investment programs , and encouraging
increased participation of the private sector. The following paragraphs
provide details of the physical :omponents the project and of the technical
assistance to support the institutional strengthening measures. The figures
in parenthesis refers to the percentage of total project costs.
(i)   Road Rehabilitation and Periodic Maintenance 1
2.08     The civil works component for roads under the Project consists of:
(i) a road rehabilitation program of about 458 km of the National paved
road network; and (ii) the periodic maintenance of about 878 km of the
National paved road network. The road rehabilitation and periodic
maintenance programs will be under the responsibility of MOPT which will
be assisted by the technical assistant in charge of the pavement management
system. All civil works financpd by the sank would be executed by
contract. Annex 8 gives details of the road works to be financed ander the
project.
1/ Percentages of total project costs in paren-:hesis include engineering
and supervision vf civil wcrks.



- 15 -
(a)   Road Rehabilitation Program (44Z)
2.09     Based upon a detailed road inventory of the existing national
paved road network and on the use of HDM-III (Highway Design and
Maintenance Model, version no. 3), a set of about 39 road links totalling
458 km has been selected for rehabilitation under the IMP.   These 458 km
represent about 142 of the national paved road network and they support
about 202 of the traffic. Because of lack of adequate and timely periodic
maintenance, these roads are entering into accelerated deterioration. The
firs;-year program totals 10 road links and 230 km (Annex 8, Table 1 and
Map IBRD 21070). Final engineering studies have been carried out by MOPT
and found acceptable by the Bank. Engineering studies for the remaining
228 km will also be carried out by MOPT and presented to the Bank for its
review before December 31, 1991. Financing will be provided under the loan
for consultant services for supervision of the civil works under this
component.
(b)   Periodic Maintenance Program (32Z)
2.10     Through the analysis of the road inventory and based upon an
average periodicity of about eight years for resealing or resurfacing of
the existing fraction of the network in good or fair condition, MOPT
estimated that a five-year periodic maintenance pro3ram of the national
paved road network would comprice about 878 km of roads i.e. annual targets
of 175 km. Simulation exercises cn HDM have permitted MOPT to screen for
periodic maintenance about 513 km of the paved national road network (Annex
8, Table 3) and about 365 km additional road link would be identified
during the implementation period. The unit in charge of the pavement
management system would (i) develop methodologies and procedures to
quantify the condition of the network in objective terms considering the
age of the roads, the date of the last resealing, the percentages of
surface degradations and the roughness index; (ii) determine a set of
typical works such as single surface treatment, double surface treatment,
slurry seal or resealing; (iii) rank by economic priority order the road
links yielding EERs of at least 12Z; and (iv) dptermine bidding lots based
upon geographic and technical considerations. At negotiations it was
agreed that the annual programs, the distribution and size of bidding lots
and the corresponding plan of actions would be approved by the Bank (para.
3.01 (f)).
(ii) Puntarenas Jetty (10Z)
2.11     The other civil works item included under the project is the
replacement by a new structure of the Puntarenas jetty (on the Pacific
coast) which has been taken out of service for safety reasons as parts of
it are in advanced stages of corrosion. Operationally, this means that two
out of five general cargo berths on the Pacific have become unusable. As a
result, the grain shipments and cruise liners which used to be accommodated
in Puntarenas now are routed to nearby Caldera, which is approaching
congestion levels. In order to alleviate the congestion in Caldera, a new
jetty at Puntarenas will be built to handle the growing c-4ise-ship
traffic. At the same time grain-handling in Caldera will be improved.
(iii)  Equipment (9Z)



- 16 -
2.12     The project also provides for equipment and too s for Ca) road
maintenance operations, (b) improving grain handling operations at Caldera,
(c) improving control of in-transit cargo and road safety, (d) improving
laboratory testing of road materials, (e) improving data processing in
MOPT, INCOP, JAPDEVA and INCOFER and (f) rail track maintenance. Detailed
lists of the equipment expected to be purchased under the pro;ect, can be
found in the project file.
(iv) Institutional Measures or Programs (42)
2.13     The main institutional measures to increase the efficiency of the
sector supported under the project call for scaling down the railway,
designing a strategy for the maintenance of Cantonal Roads, improving port
operations, ensuring soundness of the sector's annual investment programs,
and encuuraging increased participation of the private sector. To support
these institutional objectives, the project finances technical assistance
to: (a) MOPT in the areas of investment programming, project preparation
and evaluation in DGP (including, inter alia, developing a Transport Plan),
tariffs and maritime freight costing in GDTM, as well as tariffs and
costing in INCOP; (b) provide training in pavement management in DGP,
maintenance manage~ment in SDM, information management in JAPDEVA, and
assistance in the implementation of the action plan to rationalize railway
services in INCOFER; (c) carry out a study to propose the most efficient
sclution to the siltation problem in the Port of Caldera; and (d) provide
training for mid-level management in MOPT, JAPDEVA and INCOP. Outlines of
the terms of reference for these technical assistances were agreed upon
during negotiations (para. 3.01 (j)).
D. Project Costs
2.14     The bases of the cost estimates in the following page are the
average unit costs for road works carried out by MOPT during 1988 and the
preliminary engineering stvdies for the road and port works. The detailed
engineering for the first year program of works, which involves the most
deteriorated roads to be financed under the project has been reviewed by
the Bank and found satisfactory. The estimate for engineering and
supervision is 6Z of the coss of works considering that the works to be
financed under the proposed project would be fairly simple and not involve
complicated engineering. All works financed under the project would be
carried out by contract. The estimated equipment costs are based on recent
ouotations obtained by equipment specialists under the t;'^nirml mceicta"-
being provided to MOPT by the FRG.  The cost estimates do not include any
taxes or duties, from which MOPT is exempt. Annex 9 provides detailed
estimated project costs.
2.15     A physical contingency of 1OZ has been added to the cost of civil
works for roads, and 15Z for the civil works to replace the Puntarenas
Jetty. The price contingency was calculated in line with Bank guidelines,
which assume international escalation at a rate of 4.1Z per year throughout
the project implementation period and a domestic inflation rate of 14Z in
1990, 12; in 1991, 1OZ in 1992 and 82 thereafter. It was also assumed that
the rate of escalation for international prices would be also applicable to
local costs (when expressed in dollar terms) which implies that the
exchange rate i. expected to be periodically adjusted to reflect the
difference between int-rnal inflation and the evolution of world prices.



- 17 -
Components                             Local          Foreign       Total
- ------  US$ million--------------
Institutional Program                   1.0            2.2            3.2
Roads
Rehabilitation/Improvements             9.1           23.6           32.7
Periodic Maintenance                    6.7           17.1           23.8
Equipment
Road and Rail Track Maintenance         0.2            7.'4           7.6
Grain Handling, Laboratories and
Information Systems
Ports
Construction of Puntarenas Jetty        2.6            3.9            6.5
Engineering & Supervision               3.1            1.6            4.7
Base Cost                              22.7           55.8           78.5
Contingencies
Physical                               2.0            5.0            7.0
Price                                  3.8            7.6           11.4
Total Costs                            28.5           68.4           96.9
Estimated Financing Plan
Government of Costa Rica               28.5            8.4           36.9
IBRD                                    -             60.0           60.0
E. Execution and Procurement
2.16     MOPT will be responsible for project coordination and for
reporting to the Bank. To that end, designation of a Coordinating Group
satisfactory to the Bank, comprising a project coordinator, an engineer, an
accountant, and support staff, would be a condition of loan effectiveness
(paras. 3,01 (e) and 3.02).  MOPT will. execute the road related components
and the rehabilitation of the Puntarenas jetty through its SDM and GDTM
respectively. Road maintenance equipment will be procured by MOPT's SDE.
Minor equipment for improving grain handling operations will be procured by
INCOP and the facsimile machines and message transmitting units to improve
control of in-transit cargo will be procured by the Ministry of Finance
through its Customs Administration. Data processing equipment will be
procured by MOPT, INCOFER, INCOP and JAPDEVA, respectively. INCOFER will
procure workshop tools and minor equipment for rail track maintenance.
MOPT will execute the technical assistance aimed at DGP and SDM. The
technical assistance to restructure railway services will be executed by



- 18 -
INCOFER. INCOP and JAPDEVA will execute, respectively, the technical
assistance tariff setting and the development of a management informatioyi
system. The PCR will be prepared by GDP in collaboration with other
entities involved.
2.17     Procurement of items to be financed under the proposed loan is
summarized as follows (amounts within parenthesis would be financed through
the proposed loan) and will be done in accordarnce with Bank guidelines:
Procurement Method
-----(US$ million) 1/-/------------
ICB       LCB         Other       Total Cost
Civil works                         68.7      10.0                      78.7
(38.6)    (5.6)        -            (44.2)
Engineering and Supervision           -                   2.3 a/         5.4
3.1 b/        (3.1)
(3.1)
Equipment                           6.1        2.0        1.0 c/         9.1
(6.1)     (2.0)      (1.0)           (9.1)
Technical assistance                  -         -         3.6 b/         3.6
_(3.6          (3.6)
Total                               74.8      12.0       10.0           96.8
(44.7)   (7.6)       (7.7)          (60.0)
a/ To be carried out by MOPT
b/  In accordance with Bank Consultant Guidelines.
c/ Local or international shopping
1/ Including contingencies.
2.18     Contracts for the rehabilitation and upgrading of trunk roads in
the import/export corridors totalling about US$40.7 million equivalent
(including contingencies) and contracts for periodic road maintenance
amounting to about US$19.6 million (including contingencies) would be
packaged as much as possible to attract particip   ^ni; of foreig
contractors and would be procured through ICB in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Civil works contracts for the aforementioned works would be
procured through local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the
Bank, only when below US$1.0 million equivalent and up to an aggregace
amount of US$10.0 million equivalent. The replacement of the Puntarenas
jetty estimated to cost US$8.4 million equivalent (including contingencies)
would also be procured through ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines. The
LCB procedures in Costa Rica have been reviewed by the Bank and found
generally acceptable except for the limitation of not allowing price
adjustment for the foreign cost of foreign contractors. Since this is not
acceptable to the Bank, a provision in this regard is incorporated in the
legal documents (para. 3.01 (m)). Major items of equipment (road
maintenance machinery, grain handling equipment, etc.) and materials
totalling about US$6.1 million, would be procured through 1CB. Contracts



- 19 -
for smaller items of equipment and matcrials would be procured through LCB
procedures acceptable to the Bank when below US$250,000 equivalent and up
to an aggregate amount of US$2.0 million, and though local or international
shopping from eligible suppliers when valued below US$25,000 equivaleat, up
to an aggregate amount of US$1.0 million. Consultants for engineering
supervision of works, and technical assistance under the project, would be
selected in accordance with Bank guidelines.
2.19     Bidding Documents and Contract Review.  Agreement to the
aforementioned procurement arrangements including packaging to attract
participation of foreign contractors and the use of standard bidding
documents was reached during negotiations. To minimize possible adverse
impacts on the environment during the construction of the jetty and major
road works, the specifications of the bidding documents would include
clauses under which contractors would be required to prevent, minimize, or
mitigate environmental danage.  All ICB procurement, civil works contracts
above US$250,000 equivalent, and goods and equipment contracts costing more
than US$150,000 equivalent as well as the first two contracts for goods and
works (irrespective of their value), would be subjert to prior review by
the Bank before invitations to bids are issued and contracts awarded.
Other contracts would be subject to ex-post review by the Bank.
F. Disbursements and Auditing
2.20     The proposed project is expected to be fully disbursed hy December
1996. The disbursement schedule (Table 2.1) is based oni the standard
profile applicable to Costa Rica.
2.21     The arrangements for disbursements were reviewed with MOPT.  Given
the Bank's long standing relationship with MOPT and satisfactory experience
under the Fifth Highway Project, disbursements would be against periodic
statements of expenditures (SOE), except in those cases when prior Bank
review of procurement documentation is required. In order to speed up
disbursements, a special account in US dollars with an authorized
allocation of US$3 million (sufficient for about four months worth of
financeable expenditures) would be established in the Banco Central de
Costa Rica. Establishment of this account would be a condition for loan
effectiveness (paras. 3.01 (d) and 3.02). MOPT would be entitled to make
periodic withdrawals from the Special Account at the exchange rate
applicable on the day the Special Account is debited. IBRD would replenish
the Special Account for the amount of withdrawals on account of eligible
expenditures at the request .f the Borrower. Because INCOFER, INCOP,
JAPDEVA and the Customs have not dealt with IBRD to date, they will submit
their respective SOEs through MOPT to the Banco Central de Costa Rica. The
Banco Central will retain supporting documentation for review by the Bank
during supervision missions.
2.22     Withdrawals from the Special Account would be on the following
basis:
a)   562 of expenditures on rehabilitation and upgrading of trunk
roads;
b)   72? of the expenditures on civil works for periodic maintenance
until withdrawal applications under this category have reached the



- ?O -
aggregate of US$4.5 million; thereafter 66Z until the applications
have reached the aggregate of US$9.0 million; and 402 thereafter;
c)   56% of the expenditures on civil works for the replacement of the
Puntarenas jetty;
d)   100% of the expenditures on the procurement of equipment;
f)   1002 of the expenditures for consulting services for  technical
assistance, supervision and engineering.
2.23     With the objective of ensuring timely availability of counterpart
funds, MOPT agreed, during negotiations, to set up a Project Account in a
local commercial bank, and maintain a revolving balance of budgeted funds
sufficient for four months of expenditures related to items to be financed
under the project.  Establish mer- of this account would be a conditi.on for
loan effectivena2s (paras. 3.01 (J) and 3.02).
2.24     At negotiations, agreement was reached on the following auditing
arrangements: each of the participating agencies will be audited in
respect to the project.   MOPT's GjinT will  maintain the consolidated
accounts. These accounts and the related disbursements to be made against
the SOEs would be subject to audit as would be the Project and the Special
Accounts,  The Project Account and the related expenditures would be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and in accordance
with terms of reference to be approved by the Bank. The Special Account at
the B nco Central de Costa Rica would be audited also by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. Audit reports would be furnished to the
Bank within five months after close of the Government's fiscal year (para.
3.01 (i)).
G. Economic Justification
2.25     The road works proposed by MOPT as the first year's program under
the project, with an estimated total cost of US$20.4 million, are well
justified with an overall economic rate of return of about 351 (Table 2.2).
The replacemer.t of the Puntarenas jetty and the expected productivity
increases on the rate of grain handling in Caldera yield an overall ERR of
about 32Z (Table 2.3).
2.26     (i) Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance.  Based on the detailed
road inventory of the existing paved roads and the results obtained from
the application of the HDM III, 39 road links totalling 458 km. were
identified for rehabilitation. These roads represent 14% of the stock of
paved roads and account for over 20% of the annual usage of the national
roads in terms of vehicle kilometers. Because of lack of timely
maintenance, these roads are entering the critical zone where deterioration
accelerates. Out of the roads thus iaentified, ten links totalling 230 km
and forming part of the import/export corridor (see Map IBRD 21070) were
proposed by MOPT for the first year work program.
2.27     The maintunance policies used in the analyses were developed in
collaboration with SDM and the unit costs of the maintenance operations
used are reasonable for the region. Traffic volumes and their compositions
are based on actual counts supplemented by origin/destination data. For



- 21 -
each link, life-cycle costs were simulated, based upon initial surface
conditions (e.g. roughness and area cracked, number of years since last
periodic intervention et al.) horizontal and vertical geometric
characteristics, the road maintenance policies in force and the volume and
composition ct traffic using the link. Thus for each link, the maintenance
policy lternative yielding the least cost to society (minimum costs to the
road authority and the users) was identified. Tradeable goods were valued
at. their border prices. In the case of labor, it was assumed that current
market wages are in line with its opportunity cost.
2.28     Based upon the preceding analysis, the ERR for the ten roads in
the first year program vary from 18% to 65Z (Table 2.2). To assess the
impact of cost increases and less than anticipated traffic using the roads,
sensitivity tests were done. These show that the base ERRs are robust. A
twenty percent increase in costs would reduce the overall ERR to 29% and a
s:Lmilar reduction in traffic would have a corresponding effect. In the
unlikely event of a doubling of the cost of works, the overall ERR would
st:ill be a healthy 172. It would take the combined effects of a
s:imultaneous doubling of the cost of works and a 252 reduction in traffic
to reduce the overall EER to 122.
2.29      (ii) Replacement of the Puntarenas Jetty.  The replacemernt of the
Puntarenas jetty to reduce the level of congestion in Caldera and to
increase grain handling productivity were also evaluated. For the purpose
of the economic evaluation Puntarenas and Caldera were regarded as a single
port entity. Historically, traffic in the Pacific pnrts and
Caildera/Puntarenas has grown at about 6.5Z per year. The nature cf the
port throughput is primarily imports which accounted for about 902 of the
port throughput. in 1987. Grain (including soya) and iron and steel account
fcor about 722 of the imports and 65Z of the total throughput. Grain
accounts for a preponderant 442 of the imports, but the rate at which it is
discharged (1604 tons per day) leaves significant room for improvement.
Grain handling rates can be improved, conservatively, by 20% to 2COO tons
per day with modest investments.  As a result, the impruved service time
wcould liberate some 32 berth days for general cargo yielding a reduction of
some 51 ship waiting days in 1990 even with the presence of cruise liners
at Caldera. An assessment of the capacity of Puerto Calderas in the
medium-term is included in the project file.
2.30     With the closing of the cozroded Puntarenas jetty in mid-1987, its
gr-ain and cruise liner traffic is now handled at Caldera. The limited
capacity at Caldera is causing increasing delays in the availability of
berthing space and the port is now approaching congestion levels. The
inmmediate need is to postpone major port investments until Justified
(around 1995) and avoid unacceptable levels of congestion at the minimum
possible cost.
2.31     To evaluate the investments for increasing the rate of grain
handling at Caldera and replacement of the Puntarenas Jetty, three
alternatives to the existing situation were analyzed:
(a) cruise liners continue calling at Caldera but grain handling
rate increases to 2000 tons per day;



- 22 -
(b)  cruise liners use the new Jetty at Puntarenas but grain
handling rate remains at 1604 tons per day at Caldera; and,
(c) cruise liners use the new Jetty at Puntarenas and grain
handling rate increases to 2000 tons per day at Caldera.
2.32     The results of the analysis (Table 2.3) show that the preferred
alternative (c) yields the highest net present value (NPV, discounted at
12Z) of US$ 3.5 million and an ERR of 32Z. Although alternatives (a) and
(b) are clearly justified individually, increasing the rate of grain
handling to 2000 tons per day while simultaneously replacing the Puntarenas
Jetty is the optimal solution.
H. Beneficiaries
2.33     Direct benefits of the project would accrue to the economy at
large through reductions in road transport costs stemming from improved
road surface conditions; the road transport industry being competitive, the
reductions in transport costs are expected to be passed along to consumers
and producers. Other quantifiable benefits would accrue to the economy
through congestion reductions in Caldera. Non quantified benefits of the
project, would accrue to the economy from reductions in maritime freight
rates as a result of improved service times arising from increasing the
rate of grain handling at Caldera. Additional non-quantified benefits to
the economy would be derived from the expected increased efficiency of
railway operations.
I.  Environmental IniDact
2.34     The  works for the road component-rehabilitation and periodic
maintenance are technically simple, would be executed by competent
contractors, supervised by qualified engineers and would neither entail
sign;.ficant excavation nor interfere with the fauna or flora. Minor
alignment rectifications on some hazardous sections would involve small
quantities of state owned non-agricultural land. However, the improved
road surface conditions, geometric standards and adequate drainage will
contribute to road safety and make domestic transport more reliable. The
cleaning of clogged roadside ditches and drains as part of routine
maintenance operations would restcre run off to the designed channels and
thus break itE erosive potential. The design for the new Puntarenas jetty
would conform to sound engineering practices. Transient interference with
the seabed associated with pile driving -.s inevitable but the marine
ecology would not be altered. FurthermLre, to ensure that all
environmental effects of the proposed programs are adequately assessed, at
negotiations it was agreed that MOPT will conduct environmental impact
analyses for the annual work programs to be financed unde: the proposed
loan and would submit to the Bank the environmental impact statements it
would issue, including that for the first year program (para. 3.01 (f)).
MOPT will discharge this responsibility using the existing capabilities in
the Ministry of Natural Resources Energy and Mines and/or engage qualified
consultants. In addition, MOPT should give satisfactory assurance to the
Bank that the subprojects to be financed under the project will not have a
negative effect on the cultural property of Costa Rica (para. 3.01 (n).
J. Assessment of Risks



- 23 -
2.35     The proposed project does not pose any significant technical risk.
A detailed first year program of works was prepared by MOPT. As the works
to be financed under the project are technically simple - rehabilitation
and periodic maintenance - the quantities are not expected to change
substantially from the available estimates. However, aelays in project
implementation may lead to higher quantities of works, the impact of which
has been taker. into account in the sensitivity analyses. To ensure
satisfactory quality control over the works, the project provides for the
detailed engineering and supervision by competent consultants.
2.36     Because of the project's policy emphasis, the main risks are
related to the Government's commitment and subsequent ability to master the
political support to implement the needed institutional reforms,
particularly in the railway.  To con.tair. this risk, lcan effectiveness
would be conditioned to an assessmtent of satisfactory progress in
implementing the rationalization program and failure to continue
implementing it satisfactorily would constitute default under the loan
agreement (para. 3.02). Whereas the proposed project addresses the issue
of the maintenance of the national road network, the present arrangements
for the maintenance of the Cantonal roads are unsatisfactory. To address
this problem the Government submitted a plan of action satisfactory to the
Bank for the rehabilitation and maintenance of the Cantonal roads as
outlined in paragraph 1.11. Compliance with the plan of action will be
closely monitored during project supervision (para. 3.01 (c)) In addition
the project would seek a more permanent solution to the maintenance of the
Cantonal road network through the development of a decentralization
strategy (para. 3.01 (b)).
2.37     An operational risk which in the past has caused delays in project
execution is the availability of counterpart funds. To reduce this risk,
the Government would be renuired, as a condition for loan effectiveness, to
open a Project Account with an initial deposit of US$1.2 million, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.03).
III.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
3.01     During negotiations, the Government agreed to:
(a)    Carry out its 1991-1995 plan for the rehabilitation and
maintenance of the Cantonal Road System and to review with the
Bank, no later than June 30 of each year its compliance with the
Plan during the previous year and inform the Bank on the proposed
modifications on the plan (para. 1.11);
(b)    Carry out the Program which includes an action plan for the
gradual decentralization of the maintenance of Cantonal roads
(Annex 2, and para. 1.12), an action plan for the rationalization
of port operations (para. 1.20) and for INCOP to: (i) achieve
Working and Operating Ratios of no more than 85Z and 93Z
respectively by 1992 and maintain no worse a financial performance
thereafter ; and (ii) set aside funds for dredging (para. 1.26);
failure to implement the Program will constitute default under the
loan;



- 24 -
(c)    Comply with the terms ard conditions of the Contract-Program
between INCOFER and MOPT, the Minilsr  or, Finance and the Ministry
of Planning AS reviewed and updated by the Implementation
Committee. Lack of satisfactory compliance with the Contract-
Program would constitute default under the loan (para. 1.19);
(d)    Establish and maintain a project account, satisfactory to the
Bank, and open a Special Account in its Central Bank (paras. 1.40,
2.21, 2.23 and 3.02);
(e)    Establish and maintain a Project Coordinating Group, with
qualificaticns satisfactory to the Bank, t;o coordinate project
implementation (paras. 2.16 and 3.02);
(f)    Furnish to the Bank, nCt later than June 30 of each year a work
program fo. project implementation during the subsequent year snd
its corresponding environmental impact analysis.  The program's
scope and content should be such as to permit early detection of
implementation problems (paras. 1.40, 2.10 and 2.34);
(g)   tUpdate, not later than June 30 each year, its five-year IMP
following policies and criteria acceptable to the Bank and furnish
to the Bank the results of such review (para. 2.06);
(h)    Ensure that all investments included in the IMP are justified in
accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.05);
(i)    Engage independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank and submit
the audit reports to the Bank not later than five months after the
end of each fiscal year (para. 2.24);
j )    Engage consultants required to carry out the technical assistance
in accordance to Bank procedures; at negotiations the Government
provided outline terms of reference for the technical assistance
component of the project (para. 2.13);
(k)    Increase the use of contractors in the periodic maintenance of the
primary and secondary roads to reach contractor's participation of
65% of MOPT's aggregate expenditures related to such maintenance
by December 31, 1992 (para. 1.13);
(1)    When 502 of the loan funds have been committed, the Bank and the
Borrower would carry out an in-depth review of progress in project
execution. For such review Annex 6 presents the performance
targets for the project (para. 1.40);
(m)    Include in the procurement documents for LCB a price adjustment
mechanism for the foreign costs of all contractors (para. 2.13);
(n)    MOPT to give assurances, satisfactory to the Bank, that. the
subprojects financed under the project will be carried out in
accordance with sound archeological practices in respect of the
cultural property of Costa Rica (para. 2.34); and



(o)    MOPT to complete its reorganization study by March 31, 1993 and
present to the Bank, not later than June 30, 1993 an action plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the implementation of the
recommendations of MOPT's reorganization study to be carried out
under the technical assistance for developing a Transport Plan and
comply with the terms and conditions of said plan in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank (para.1.16).
3.02     Loan effectiveness would be contingent upon:  (a) satisfactory
progress in implementing the Contract-Plan to restructure INCOFER's
services (para. 1.19) including, inter-alia, the appointment of the
Implementation Committee to monitor compliance with the Contract Plan
(rara. 1.32); (b) the appointment of a Project Coordinating Group with
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank (para 2.16); (c) the Borrower
setting-up a project account, sacisfactory to the Bank, with an initial
deposit of US$1.2 zlilli(n to be replenisheX eve"v four months with budgeted
ftnds and open a Special Account in its Central Bank (paras. 1.40, 2.21 and
2.23); and (d) the Borrower and INCOFER, INCOP and JAPDEVA entering into
Subsidiary Contractual Arrangements to make available the loan proceeds to
carry out the project (para. 2.16).
3.03     Subject to the above, the proposed project provides a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of US$60.0 million. The terms would be 17 years,
including a 5-year grace period.



- 26 -                                   TABLE 1.1
COSTA RICA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
ROAD NfTWORK
Type of Rood        Total km            Percent 1/         Ntional Network            Cbntonal Notwork (km)
km         Percent          km            Percent
Pavod                 6037               14.3               3192       44.6            1846            6.6
Gravel                9119               26.8               3800       58.2           6519            18.9
Earth                21187               69.9                169        2.2           21028           74.6
Total          86548                100              7161         100           28192            100
~~~~~~32U U                              _ =-   ===U=S2
i/    Rounded off to the nearest decimal point.
Soure-: MOPT, Diroccion General do Planificacion, San Jose, 1988.



- 27 -
TABLE 1.2
COSTA RICA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
SECTOR's SHARE OF GDP
1978     1980      1982    1984       1986    3987   1988
Billion Colones       l.28     1.74    4.49    7 84    10.76   12.86   16.87
As 2 of GDP           4.24      4.20    4.60    4.81       4.34    4.51    4.62
Percent Contribution
by mode:
Road              64.26    64.00   51.00   59.00    60.72   60.00   62.00
Ports/Fluvial    13.00    14.00   15.00   17.00    16.80   16.89   17.02
Rail               8.80      9.00    8.00    7.00        5.12    4.69    4.50
Air               13.94    13.00   26.00   24.00    17.36   18.42   16.48
TOTAL:       100.00   100.00  100.00  100.00   100.00  100.00  100.00
Source:  MOP, Estadisticas del Sector Transportes, and
Bank estimates. November 1989.



- 28 -
TABLE 2.1
COSTA RICA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Million and Percentage of loan Amount)
Percent
IBRD FY   Semester   Amounitl/        Cumulative       Percent2/      Cumulative
90         I          0                 0               0                 0
I1          0                 0              0                 0
91         I          4.6               4.6             8                 8
II          5.0               9.6            8                16
92         I          6.0              15.6            10               26
II          6.8              22.4           11                37
93         I          9.2              31.6            15               52
II          7.3              38.9           12                64
94         I          6.2              45.1            10               74
II          5.2              50.3             9               83
95         I          5.9              55.5             9                92
II          2.5              58.0            4                96
96         I          1.1              59.1             2               98
II          0.9              60.0            2               100
1/ Based on the standard profile modified by initial deposit of US$4
million in the Special Account.
2/ Rounded to the nearest whole number.



COSTA RICA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
SUMMARY ECONOMIC EVALUATION - FIRST YEAR ROADS PROGRAM
(US3 MILLION)
ROAD NAME            LENGTH          AVEPAGE      REHABILITATION  ROAD MAINTENANCE       LIFETIME           ERR              ERR              ERR
(km)       DAILY TRAFFIC       COST 1/         COST SAVINGS    V.O.C. SAVINGS         (S)          !-9''S *20%)  (BENEFITS -20%)
1. Barbilla-Liion           41.4             2123             2.63              0.41              4.1              18.2             i4 0             13.7
2. Siquirr.s-Barbills       18.6             3084             1.32              0.21              2.69             25.1             19.'             18.8
3. Esiabon-Siquirres        39.9             1749             2.12              0.22              8.36             37.6             3C0 9            28.9
4. Paraiso-C.rvant.s        16.0             2841             1.26              0.11              1.92             36.4             2e 7             26.9
S. Cervantes-Turriolb       18.0             2851             1.63              0.11              2.68             43.8             39.'             38.2
S. R.Gr-cia-R.Noranjo       8.2              5846             0.76              0.24              9.86             63.4             47.1             46.2
7. R.Naranjo-R.Palnar       8.3              6079             0.76              0.22              6.76             41.9             36.3             36.4
e. Arizona-Linona           8.0              2467             0.87              0.18              4.88             49.1             42-1             41.0
9. Linon*-Bagaces           48.0             1846             6.20              0.14             14.77             28.e             24 6             24.3
10. Bogace--Liberin         24.3             2480             2.63              0.68              2.81             64.0             60.6             48.2
1/ Including Supervision
November 1989
"3



COSTA RICA
TRAN5POR SBCTOR PP9jeu
51)9ARY ECIIPIC EVALUATION OF THE NB4 Pt,NTARENAS J.Ey
Sre.nrioe Ecaluoted           Capital Coat  Operating or  Beat               --- Not Prsnt V           si---------   Best         Econoc Rf  c_f _Retrn
Maintenance    Eati.at.       Benefits                 Benefit.       Estimate    Benefits          Sn-f;te
Coat                       Raduced                  Incr,*.ad                   R.duced          _ .cr,asod
by 401                   by 40S                     by 405           Sy 401
1. Cruise  liners continue
using Celdera Puntar.n.
out of ervice. Crain
handling rate increased
to 20O0 t,d at Calders:
a) No cost increaes                0.32           0 60 1/        0.62        0-149                        0.584        39.9       21                47.2
b) Coat increase by 201            0.364          0.60 b J       0.458       0 086                        0.6          34.1       10.0              36 1
2.  Cruise liners us  n_
Puntaranu  grain handling
ata r-_irn  1804 t.p
a+ Cald*ra:
a) No cost increase                6e5            0.40 J         1.342       0.16                         2 534        20.C       13 1              27.3
b) Coet incresse by 201             7.8           0 50 V         0 W0s       -0.384                       2            16.7        0.6              22 7
S. Cruise liners use new
Puntarenes grain handling
rate increases to 2000
t4d at C-ldera.
a) No cost increase                 6.82           1.6 J         3.663        1.408                       5.096        82 6       21.2              42.1
b) Cost incrbas  by 205            8.18            1.7 iU        3.019       0.874                        5.163        27.7       17.2              36 5
J  Oerating and eintensnc, coats over  ix years *-mad I ife tim
aintenance coats for the jetty.
J     intenance coats for the jetty plus replacemnt of grain  -acuator-  aftar 6 years and their operating and saint.nance coats.
J  Capital and recurrent cots .   one half of the benefits fro  ship -aiting ti



- 31 -
FIGURE 1.1
COSTA RICA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
REVENUES FROM USERS VS. ROAD EXPENDITURES
4
5  51                                    ~ ~ ~~~~~~~//
3
2 _/
75   ?I   77   7e   7t   Bo   6i e2   &i   e4   B5   e    67   BB
0   Road User Chmgu                      +   Expendklures



- 32 -                      FIGURE 1.2
COSTA RICA
TRANSPORT SECIOR PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF ROAD USER CHARGES
73.
72
80          82           84e                      67          e
V /l ourKfs   CHREGISTER          TER        OLLS         ;9 FUEL&O/L



-33 -                     ANNEX l
Page 1 of 3
COSTA RICA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
ROAD TRANSPORT
A. Development and Traffic
1.       Traffic counts on the national and regional networks have been
carried out by MOPT in a systematic way for many years. Traffic data on
secondary and feeder roads have not been gathered systematically, but a
nunber of classified counts were made during the studies leading to
formulation of the proposed protect. Most of the highway traffic is
centered around San Jose and in the Central PlsLeau (Table 1). The main
access roads to San Jose served an Annual Average Daily Traffic (AADT) of
about 20,000 within the metropolitan area and about 8,000 in rural areas.
Many roads in the Central Plateau carry an AADT of over 3,000, an amount
that i. also reached by the access road to Puntarenas, while the access to
Limon nas an AADT of only 1,000. The AADT on the Inter-American Highway
averages about 2,000 to the north of San Jose and 1,000 to the south. The
only other heavily travelled routes are the trunk road serving the Nicoya
Peninsula, with an AADT of nearly 2,000 vehicles, and the access road to
the San Carlos region, with an AADT of about 1,500. About one fifth of the
traffic on the paved roads consists of heavy vehicles (Table 2). Traffic
levels increased nationally by about 3% annually during the last five years
which is significantly lower than the 8Z-9z growth registered in the 70s.
This figure is well correlated with records of fuel consumrption.
B. The Vehicle Fleet
2.       Vehicle registration has been accelerating in recent years, and
Costa Rica reached, in 1987, a vehicle density of 73 vehicles per 1,000
population, a level of motorization that puts it at the head of the
countries in its region. About 442 of the fleet consists of cars and light
commercial vehicles make up another 44 of the fleet. Taxis account for
less than 1Z of the vehicle fleot. Most of the taxis are located in
metropolitan San Jose. Microbuses and btuses together account for about 22
of the fleet. The rest of the fleet (8.82) .s made up of trucks which
number about 17,000 units.
3.       The freight fleet is composed predominantly of single-rear-axle
trucks commonly used for transport of agricultural products and
manufactured goods over relatively short distances and with low load
factors (less than 50Z). On most regional routes, these two-axle vehicles
make up 65-80Z of the truck traffic; however, on truck routes serving the
major ports or carrying international traffic, three-axle trucks and five-
axle tractor and semi-trailer rigs make up 40t of the truck volume.
Freight transport over the national. and regional highways is about 1,000
million ton-km per year. As in other Central American countries, there is
considerable importation of used U.S. equipment, although this practice has



- 34 -                   ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3
declined noticeably during the past three years. AR of 1986, MOPT
statistics showed that more than 85Z of the cargo fleet was of less than
8-ton canacity and only 0.5Z was over 10 tons; 37Z of that fleet was less
than five years old, 412 was from six to 15 years old, and 22Z was even
clder. Although complete statistics are not yet available, recent MOPT
surveys show that there has been a large increase in the number of 5-axle
semi-articulated trucks operating in Costa Rica, and it is estimated that
these large vehicles (20-ton payload) now comprise more than 52 of the
freight fleet.
C. Organization and Operation of the Trucking Industry
4.       Freight operators are composed of a few multi-vehicle companies
and a majority of individual truckers owning one or two vehicles. Owner-
operators represent about 93? of all owners and account for about 72? of
the vehicle fleet. Their activities are usually related to agriculture,
and the truckers often act as middlemen, operating mostly in rural areas.
Individual truckers sometimes group themselves into cooperatives which
protect truckers in certain geographical areas, or those dealing with
certain commodities. Family corporations, representing 5Z of total
ownership, account for 122 of the freight fleet. About 2? of the owners
are organized as modern corporations owning 16? of the fleet, with an
average of 15 vehicles per company. This well organized groups serve the
intraregional market in competition with other regional firms, in
particular from Guatemala.
5.       There are no proper transport terminals in Costa Rica.  Only the
most important freight companies have their own yards, which can be
utilized as terminal facilit4es. The General Customs Warehouses in San
Jose act as receiving terminals for import merchandise. The Government,
expressed interest in securing the Bark's assistance for the construction
of a freight terminal with the objective of improving the efficiency of the
interface between the various segments of the ind"stry. It would support
the entry of dome.,ic operators in the inter-regional and intermodal
services and, finally, would be a factor ih alleviating the problem caused
bv the circulation and parking of large trucks in the city of San Jose.
The feasibility of building the terminal as well as alternative ownership
and operational schemes, will be evaluated under the updating of the
National Transport Plan.
6.       Urban as well as rural passenger transport is provided exclusively
by private concessionaires ranging from single vehicle owners to companies
operating up to 10 vehicles. Operating franchises are granted for a five-
year period. Distribution of inter-city passenger services countrywide is
reasonable. Of a total bus fleet of about 3,600 vehicles, 85? are 43-seat
or larger buses operating with a relatively high load factor, and the
remaining are 16-28 seat microbuses. The age of the fleet is adequate,
particularly since, during the past three years, the Government has
assisted operators in modernizing the bus fleet, especially in the San Jose
area.



-35 -                      ANNEX 1
Page 3 ox 3
D. Transport Regulation, Including Control of Weights and Dimensions
7.       Government intervention in the organization of road freight
transport has been minimal. Truckers operate freely over routes that they
select, but under the obligation of annual registration and vehicle
Inspection. The General Directorate of Road Transport in the Transport
Division of MOPT regulates routes and fares for all bus services and
franchises the new bus lines. Traffic regulations are enforced by A
traffic police body, formerly under the Ministry of Public Safety, but
organized at present as a General Directorate of Traffic Police under
MOPT's Transport Division. There is no fixed rate structure for freight
transport, with individual operators' rate levels being set by supply and
demand. Regional companies base their rates on the tariffs published by
the Centri& American Transport Association and mark up these rates
depending on competition. Passenger transport tariffs have been under
close scrutiny during recent years since operators claim that revenues do
not cover operating costs.
8.       Recorded financial costs incurred by single-vehicle owners are 152
to 302 lower than those of trucking companies. Single-vehicle owners are
generally ready to operate with a lower profit margin; they play an
important role in keeping the industry competitive and responsive to the
demand. Under these conditions, savings in vehicle operating costs due to
improved road conditions would, within a relatively short time, be passed
on to the users. Better road conditions would also favor the use of more
modern and more efficient trucks where these would lead to lower operating
costs.
9.       Maximum allowable vehicle weights and dimensions are based on the
Central American Road Transport Agreement of 1958, which specified 8,000 kg
as maximum single-axle and 14,500 kg as maximum tandem-axle loads. Since
this is on the low side compared to many other countries, the Government
has unofficially adopted the rule of permittirg overloads of 15%.
corresprnding to 9,200 kg and 17,400 kg. Analysis of the very limited
statistics available, supplemented by field observations, indicates that
vehicle overloading is a serious problem on only a few routes, primarily
those used by trucks carrying logs to the lumber mills in the Central
Valley. Continuous overloading also occurs on some routes during peak
harvesting of crops such as grains, sugar cane and plantains. To enforce
weight regulations, six permanent scales are installed in different parts
of the country. The weighing control section is attached to the Traffic
Engineering Department of the Road Transport General Directorate.



-36 -                                 ANNEX 1
Table 1
COSTA RICA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Intensity of Use of Roads in the National Network
Averge Dai ly        Length of reods       S*cti*A L.gtSh ea X
Surface Typo  U  Troffic i s^"                treffic             tlo        (k9) of paved roads
PAVED ROADS
Over 12,000                                    17,040                   75                        2.8
6,000 - 12,000                                   6,170                   2                        2.5
2,000 - 6,000                                   8,570                 4t0                        14.1
400 - 2,000                                     O90               1,511                       *6.1
100 - A00                                       240                 902                        80.1
Le  then 100                                        41                10                         4.5
leighted Average Daily Traffic         *         1,OU
%PUAYM  ROADS                                                                          Section Length so
X of ufpoved roads
400 - 2,0 0 0                                     620                  11                         8.0
100 - 400                                          1W                  12                        24.0
Laos than 100                                       21              2,7"7                        ?3.0
DaitMd Average Daily Terffie           *            Is
Seer..: S1irmUrate  Generl of P lann"In
MOPT, Son Jeso, October I"?



- 37 -
ANNEX 1
Table 2
COSTA MICA
TRANSPIORT SECTOR PROJECT
rutt;c Ojstrbte,lr eg  the Netlenal  etorok
(P.oret of Avermee Dally TraffIc) 1/
Llight                Trucks       Trucks
Type of Road         Trff ;c Vem2e      Cars      Vehicles    Ouse       (2 gale.)   (3 sales)  Trv*;Iefs
Paved (mport/        Over 1000            47.0        27.1       0.2        10.5          2.1        4.5
Expert Cerridors)   1000 - S00W          18.5         11.6       6.1        11.5           .9       11.2
500 - 1000          84.6         M1I5       5.        14.6          1.9         9.3
Loee  then 5O       27.3         25.J     10.1        15.2          4.0        14.1
Othor Paved          Over 1000           $5.1         27.6       6.6         6.2          0.7        0.5
1000 - 1000         45.4         15.6      5.6        10.0          1.3         I.'
5O0  - 1000         45.4         U4.6      5.0        11.2          2.1         1.5
Ues than $00        45.0         $5.8      5.3        10.5          1.9         1.4
Zreved Gravel        500 - 1000           87.4        44.4       5.2         6.7          1.7        1.0
Laes ten 50            .'        46.2       3.4       10,A           1.8        1.6
1/ Tetal my get adW us to 100 becoua     rofmwning.
Seu"ee:  lreeerate General of Planning
'WT, Son Jege, OGobee 1966



COSTA RICA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Action Plan for th. Rationalization of Rallway Service,
Objectives             Instruments                      Action                   Responsibilities      Timing      Inpact
1.  Financial/         DOfinition of a Basic            Identification of r      MWPT/Consultontu      December   Improved
Institutional     Road Notrork for oach            basic cantonal road                             1991       technical and
Canton                          network to ensure                                          financial manage-
adequate comunica-                                        ment of the
tions (Comprisoe  the                                      inveetioente in
Notional Road Network                                      the co,ntry's
plus part of the                                           road network
Cantonal network)
On the basis of a w*ll  MOPT/Consultants       Dcember
defined road network,                          1991
and ranking of links
stipulate responoi-
biliti-n Lnd actions
le-di.g to increase the
technical and financial
capability for road
maintenance
Coordinate road          MOPT/Consultants      Decemer   Improve Ineti-
maintenance efforts                            1991        tutional *ad
between MOPT, Munici-                                     comwinol
palities, IFAM, Develop-                                   ceordinaticn
ment Council, and other
co mmunity organizations
Create within WEPT a            Provide technical and   MOPT/Consultents        December   Trilor decen-
Cantonal Road* Unit with        financial guidance to                           1991       trallzatioe
normative functions             the Municipalities to                                      program to
carry out road mints-                                      particular
nance.  Co-dinsto the n-e
inventories of the
Cantonal Road Network
Participate in the       MOPT/Consultants      Decembr   Strengthen MOPT's
technical assistanco                           1991       capabilities for                     o
programed with                                            carrying out and
Multinational Financial                                   monitor necessary
Agencies                                                   studies and
recommendationn



Deaign and gradually    MOPT/Conaultants       Start       Imoroy. efficiency
ispl m nt, according to                        March      and resource
th- capability of each                         1992-      mobilization
Municipality, a syatem                         completed
financing the mainto-                          in March
nance of Cantonal roada                        1994
Deaign and gradually    MOPT/Conaultants       Start       Improve officiency
implement, a technical                         March       in road
assistance program                             1991       m-einten-nee
according to the needs                         completed
of each Municipality to                        in March
strengthen their capabi-                       1994
lities to carry out road
maintenance
Improve Cantonal Roada          Each Municipality to    MOPT/Municipali-        Starting   Improve resource
m*intenance planning            develop, with MdoT        ties/Conaultants      in June    allocation and
asmiotance, annual                             1992        reduce m*intenance
road maintenance                                           costs
progrn
2.  Operatiouial       Increaso the role of the         Develop and implement   MOPT/Conaultanta       Decembr   Reduce maintenance
private sector and              appropriate schemes to                          1992        costs
coemunity participation in      encourage coemunity
road maintenance                participation through
the development of
micro-enterpri se,
development asaocia-
tiona, etc.
Provide technical        MOPT/Conoult nta      December   Improve controct
assi:tance to tho                              1992       m_no _ent
Municipalitie  to dev-lop
their capability for cost
accounting and contract
management
Improve the municipalities'    Define the optimal        MOPT/Conaultanta       December   Reduce maintenane                      >
D' Z
capabilities for management    level of decentroli-                             1992       cots                                 00 Z
of road maintenance             zation of road                                                                                     X
equipment                       maintenance equip-                                                                               "k-
ment management and
design schemes for the                                                                          W



appropriate distribu-
tion of equipments to
municipalities or
groups of munici-
palities
Provide training for    MOPT/Consu.tnntn        December   Improve equipment
the itilization and                             1992       availability and
maintenance of road                                        utilization
maintenance equipment
Gradually transfer the           Complete the imple-       MOPT/Consultants/    Starting   Improve road
responsibility for the           mentation of or          Municipalities         in         maintenance
maintenance of the               adequate institutio-                            January
Cantonal r-ads to the            nal and financial                               1993
Municipalities                   structur-
0
4>-
OQ    C
o t"
Ft
0



- 41 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 6
COSTA RICA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
RATIONALIZATION OF RAILWAY SERVICES
A. Background
1.       The railway in Costa Rica consists of two major sectors: the
Atlantic and the Pacific. The Atlantic line consists of: (i) the
mountainous line between San Jose and La Junta; (ii) the central line
connecting San Cristobal via La Junta to the port of Limon; (iii) the
suburban spurline connecting San Jose to Alajuela; and (iv) the spur
connecting Limon to La Estrella. The Atlantic line was built by private
intetests and up to 1972 was operated by the Northern Railway Company.
That company's concession was abolished that year and the railway passed to
the Government.  The Pacific line was built by the Government and its
electrification was completed in 1930. It consists of: (i) the connection
between San Jose via Salinas and the port of Caldera; (ii) the line
connecting the port of Puntarenas to Salinas; and (iii) the spur connecting
Ciruelas with Alajuela. The total length of the network is near 600 km; an
additional railway line has operated until 1985 in the South Pacific but it
was dismantled and the materials are to be used in the rest of the system
or sold.
2.       With the dissolution of the Northern Railway Company in 1972, the
administration of the Atlantic line passed to the Atlartic Port Authority
(JAPDEVA) and that of the Pacific line, passed to the Pacific Port
Authority (INCOP). In the interest of unifying the operations and
improving the management of the two railwavi, the Government created, in
1975, the Railway Company of Costa Rica (FECOSA) as a subsidiary of the
Costa Rican Development Corporation (CODESA). The two railways passed to
FECOSA which operated them until l9f.5 when FECOSA was dissolved and the
present railway authority (INCOFER) was created. At this stage the
Government assumed the considerable debts accumulated by the previous
organizations and a tax on all banana exports (whether by rail or road) was
created to generate funds for the operation of INCOFER, earmarking
resources for railways maintenance.
3.       With the development of the road infrastructure (starting in the
60s) the railway has lost its predominant role. Preliminary studies
carried out by the Bank show clearly that short of restricting railway
operations to the "banana line' (i.e. the central line) there are no
financial or economic prospects for the railway.  The Government, aware of
the foregoing, had ambitious plans to end all subsidies to INCOFER as part
of SAL II agreements.   For 1988, the year in which all subsidies to
INCOFER were to end, the railway's deficit was about 580 million colones
while this year the estimate is 550 million colones.



- 42 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 6
4.       The following paragraphs present an analysis of the railway's
operations, cost structure, the allocation of the costs to track and
operations and the sources of INCOFER's revenues. The plan to scale down
railways operations is presented on paragraph 18 onwards.  Government is
finalizing the analysis of the proposed plan which has been found
acceptable to the Bank during project appraisal. The Government and
INCOFER should make contractual arrangements (Contrato-Programa) to
Implement the plan and the Bank would monitor the achievement of its
targete. The presentation of the "Contrato-Programa" signed and approved
would be a condition of ioan negotiation.
B. Railway Operations
5.       INCOFER is a typical non-specialized all type of service railway.
It provides freight car load. less-than-car-load services, passenger and
parcels services in almost all the network. The lack of clear objectives,
coupled with inexperienced management and no specific marketing strategy
has resulted in a continuous deterioration of the reliability and safety of
their services. As pationage shifted to road transDort, the railways
reaction was to lower tariffs. As a consequence, the railway has
consistently operated in the red, requiring considerable transfers from the
Government to meet its operating costs.  Generally, the condition of the
track as well as the rolling stock is poor. More than 55Z of the track is
in poor or bad conditions. The lack of maintenance is directly related to
the limited resources of INCOFER to afford their expenses.  There is no
preventive maintenance nor adequate management and stock of parts and
spares. This is the result of the railways acting as a production oriented
enterprise with little consideration to cost, efficiency or profitability
6.       The railway participation in total traffic movement (both
passengers and freight) account for less than lOZ. Table 1 shows the
volumes of passengers and freight on each sector of the system. Passenger
traffic remained stable at a level of 2.0 million per year; two thirds are
on the Atlantic Sector and one on the Pacific. Freight traffic was near
1.7 million ton (without including the South Pacific which was closed in
1983) until 1982 but it started to decrease up to a minimum of 0.8 million
in 1985. Since then, there was a continuous recovery; the total volume
expected by the end of 1989 is near 1.0 million tons. Of the total freight
transported by the railway, banana is certainly the main commodity, ranging
from 35Z to 52Z of the tons moved during the last few years. While in the
1981/82 more than 95Z of all banana traffic was moved by rail this
participation dropped to less than 45Z in recent years.
C. Railway Management and Staff
7.       INCOFER is conducted by a council of directors, representing
different agencies of the Government and labor unions. The Executive
President chairs the council and also acts as general manager. Four main
areas depend directly from the Executive President: (i) Planning and
Development;  (i';) !:umaA, Resources; (iii) Administratior, Fih,ance and



- 43 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 6
Marketing; (iv) and Operations. INCOFER's management is generally
competent in the technical fields, but its experience in business and
commercial areas is weak, owing largely to the neglect of these matters in
a production oriented enter?rise. Restructuring the railways would
encompass, in addition to cnanges in scale, developing managerial skills
better suited and more responsive to commercial objectives. This change
will require substantial technical assistance in the use of modern
managerial tools. A management information system should be implemented to
aid the decision making process in a changing environment. The system
should provide the necessary understanding of the cost of each service and
the possible revenues, in order to define a suitable marketing strategy for
the railways.
8.       Given the size of the system and its operations it is clear that
the railways were and are overstaffed. However, since 1983, staff has been
reduced from 320t people to the present 2300. INCOFER intends to lay-off
1000 persons by the end of 1993, at a rate of 250 yearly. This program
will be accomplished by means of pensions, transfers to other Government
agencies and severance payments. Implementation of this program will
require a firm commitment from the Government to make the funds available
for legal compensation (prestaciones legales) which have been estimated at
about US$2.7 million during the four-year period, To alleviate the social
cost of this program, the Government is considering the provision of
training of redundant personnel to facilitate the reallocation process.
D.        INCOFER's Potential Role in the Sector
9.       To determine the role that the railway can play in the future, the
Bank carried out in 1988 an exhaustive analyses of the potential
profitability of different lines and services provided by INCOFER. Details
of this study and its conclusions, which continue to be relevant to date,
are presented in paragraphs 10 to 16.
(i) INCOFER's Cost Structure
10.      Table 2 presents a summary of INCOFER's cost structure for 1987,
which still remains substantially valid. The cost matrices are organized
according to operationally relevant categories. Maintenance and operations
account for 49Z and S6Z of the costs for 1986. 42Z and 402 of the costs for
1987 and 40Z and 36Z of the costs for 1988. Wages and operating costs
(primarily energy) account for nearly all of the costs incurred by INCOFER:
982 in 1986 and 96Z in 1987. The results clearly shows that the railway is
overmnanned and major cuts in the payroll must be made if INCOFER's books
are to be balanced. In 1986, every CR$ earned in revenues involved a cost
of CR$ 3.36, and, in 1987 it involved CR$ 2.62. For the same years, each
CR$ in revenue earned entailed a cost in wages and operating costs of CR$
3.29 in 1986 and CR$ 2.51 in 1987 showing clearly the magnitude of
overmanning in INCOFER. Table 3 shows the expenditures of the railway
during the period 1979 to 1988, presented according to operational
categories.



- 44 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 6
(ii) Allocation of Fixed and Variable Costs
11.      As part of the 1988 Bank study, the actual costs incurred by
INCOFER in 1986 and revenues from operations have been allocated to track
and services (Table 4). The inescapable conclusion based on the analysis
presented is that with the exception of the banana, all other services
produce a deficit and do not even cover the variable costs involved.
First, actual costs incurred nave been allocated as fixed and variable
costs, and second, the minimum possible costs for the railway hiave beell
estimated based on the assumption that possible operational efficiencies
such as improved train scheduling, elimination of duplicate crews, etc.
have been implemented but the scale of operations remains invariable.  The
objective of deriving the second set of costs was to evaluate, assuming
efficient railway operations, whether the railway could be operated
profitably given its present scale of operations.  Overall, the estimated
minimum costs are 22Z lower than the actual costs incurred.
12.      As shown in Table 4, none of the passenger services provided by
INCOFER on either the Atlantic or the Pacific line cover even the variable
costs. The same holds for the minimum possible cost hypothesis. The total
revenues from passengers amounted to CR$ 43.5 million and the total costs
of servicing passengers was four times larger than the revenues: CR$ 174.1
million under the actual costs and about the same under the minimum cost
alternative.
13.      Regarding cargo, only the banana line shows a meaningful surplus.
The CR$ 127.2 million in costs produce CR$ 149.3 million in revenues; a
surplus of CR$ 22.1 million. Under the minimum cost alternative, the
surplus would have been about 'ive times larger; CR$ 94.3 million. With
the exception of the wheat haulage to Barranca, none of the other cargo
services cover even the variable costs.
(iii) INCOFER's Revenues
14.      Tables 5 and 6 show the volumes of cargo and passengers hauled in
1987 on the Atlantic and the Pacific lines, the average haul distance, the
revenue from each service rendered and the estimated revenu'? per ton hauled
and the revenue per ton kilometer moved. About 18Z of the revenues in 1987
came from domestic cargo operations tmost of the domestic freight is moved
by truck) while the rest were derived form import/export oriented
operations. The latter accounted for 63Z of the revenues in 1987. This
shows a clear lack of balance (empty back haul) in the nature of INCOFER's
operations and explains, in part, the high cost. of operations. The
extremely low revenues per ton kilometer are, to a great extent, the result
of low fares in the trucking industry, which is experiencing excess
capacity.
15.      The foregoing distortion becomes starker when the revenues from
cargo operations alone are compared. In 1987, 64Z of the revenues on the
Atlantic line came from exports (mainly bae,iana and other fruit) and 87 frorn
imports. During the same year, fully 822 of the revenue from cargo



- 45 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 6
operations on the Pacific line were derived from imports (there is
virtually no export traffic on this line).
16.      The short transport distances, the empty backhauls, the low
revenues per unit of cargo hauled and the high cost of operaticns (mostly
the wage bill) are the factors that explain the railway's diminished role
in the sector.
E. INCOFER's Financial Performance
17.      The railway's financial results reflects the absence of
appropriate objectives and the lack of reaction to stop a growing self-
destructing process. Table 7 shows operational revenues and expenditures
for the 1979-1988 period together with the deficits and the
revenue/expenditure ratios.  While until 1983 revenues covered at least 70Z
of expenditures, since then the proportion s-arted to drop, reaching 422 in
1986. Soon after the situation started to improve and the nominal deficit
stabilized, which means that in real terms it has been reduced. During
1989 the operational deficit would account for about US$6.7 million.
H. The Contract-Program
18.      With the objective of restructuring the railway services to make
INCOFER a self-financing enterprise, a preliminary 'Contrato-Programa'
(contract-plan) has been discussed between INCOFER and the Ministries of
(i) Public Wcrks and Transport; (ii) Finance (Hacienda); and (iii) National
Planning and Economic Policy (MIDE PLAN) to:
(a)    define clear objectives for the 1990-1993 period;
(b)    establich quantified operating and financial results and define
target dates leading to a 1994 elimination of the operating
deficit;
(c)    set an agreement on the mechanism to support investments; and
(d)    assure the Government support to INCOFER management and financial
requirements.
The main issue for INCOFER is to concentrate efforts on applying a
commercial approach to increase revenues and only provide additional
services when marginal revenues are above marginal costs. The elimination,
or at least a drastic reduction, of passenger services is one of the
necessary steps towards that objective. Reduction of personnel to reduce
expenditure is also a key objective. The "Contract-Program" sets
obligations for INCOFER and the Ministries involved and contains clauses of
control, revision, updating and non-fulfillment that will mainly suspend
disbursement from both the Government and the Bank, in regard to the Sector
Loan.



- 46 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 6
19.      The contract-program being considered by INCOFER and the
Government is based on the following specific targets: (i) staff
reductions to reach 1300 employees by 1993; (ii) increased revenues in
constant 1989 colones from the estimated C$635.0 million in 1993 to C$865.0
million in 1993; and (iii) reduce Government subsidies by an average 202
per year, to reach constant 1989 C$162.0 million in 1993. It is expected
that, as INCOFER strengthens its capability to gather and process technical
and financial information, the contract-program will evolve into a more
detailed corporate plan including dissagregated traffic and revenue
projections: principal operating parameters and statistics and detailed
operating costs; and full financial projections.



- 47-
- 47 -                          ANNEX 3
Table 1
COSTA RICA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Railway Traffic - Passengers per Sector
Year            Pacific             Atlantic                   Total
1977                N/I            1,034,853                     -
1978            831,233            1,221,059                2,052,292
1979            878,628            1,288,466                2,167,094
1980            816,885            1 155,339                1,972.224
1981            708,100            1,043,873                1,751,973
1982            947,761            1,366,074                2.313,835
1983            921,948            1,518,377                2,440,325
1984            7:7,659            1,254,698                1,982,357
1985            671,718            1,294,086                1,965,804
1986            718,958            1,123,369                1,842,327
1987            642,103            1,236,400                1,878,5C3
1988            640,102            1,282,326                1,922,428
1989            666,341 *          1,297,034 *              1,963,375 *
 Estim.ated.
Freight Traffic per Sector (tons)
Year            Pacific             Atlantic                   Total
1977            524,604            1,136,425                1,661,029
1978            424,789            1,177,496                1,602,285
1979            514,039            1,206,496                1,720,535
1980            474,930            1,160,421                1,635,351
1981            398,207            1,267,663                1,665,870
1982            331,169            1,311,410                1,642,579
1983            314,421            1,222,913                1,537,334
1984            306,930              778,039                1,084,969
1985            299,676              504,877                  804,553
1986            339,274              514,217                  853,491
1987            366,387              518,787                  885,174
1988            362,832              611,199                  974,031
1989            356,870 *            640,700 *                997,570*
* Estimated.
Source:  INCOFER - November 1989



-*48                                         ANNEX 3
Table 2
COSTA RICA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
INCOFER'S Cost Structure
C.R.S. Mililon 1987
Oth-r             Dopro-                 X W*q*+Oth.Cost
Wages  Op.Costs Otner     elatlon    Total             to Rev.
OPERATIONS:
Maintonaneo:
Track   195.60    32.62     0.14      4.19   22.56                  568.46
Rolling Stock   169.18    28.28      4.87     0.10   198.89                 40.72
Workshops     4.05     9.69      0.00     0.00    14.64                  3.75
Sub-Total             as9...    65.59      4.81     4.29   434.07                 106.93
Operating Costs   296.32    82.89      1.82     9.51   891.64                 97.61
Other Operstions    13.85      0.69     0.08     0.00    14.52                  3.70
Sub-Total             $12.17    82.90      1.40      9.51   406.0e               101.21
OVERHEADS:
Administrotlon   183.94    12.44    16.12      0.43   161.93                 17.49
Cenoral     8.68     2.86      0.00     0.01    11.07                  2.93
Flnoncisl Charges     0.00      8.76     6.49     0.00    10.27                  0.97
Sub-Total              142.62    18160    21.61     0.44   168.27                  41.29
TOTAL          814.47   167.17    27.52    14.24  1028.40                 251.43
8~--                                                                   -
TOTAL REVENUES                                           890.42
Tot. Cost/Rev.                                             2.62
Wages/Rev.                                               2.09
--------------__                                           w  ;
Wage.Oth.Cost/Rov.                                           2.61
Source: INCOFER, Direccion Flnciers, Son Jose, March 1998



~ 49 -                       ANNEX 3
Table 3
COSTA RICA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
INCOFER's Total Expenditures (1979-1988)
(Colones '000)
Genexal
Operational                           Financial
Maintenance    Expenditures    Administration        Expenditures        Totals
66,574           63,118             20,698             1,903          152,293
88,341           91,653             25,142            18,293          223,429
104,063          115,065             32,035            11,779          262,942
157,233          171,052             46,887            20,418          395,790
282,499          283,215             i8,402            29,568          663,684
390,559          358,546            103,067            29.959          882,131
324,806          330,941             95,122            32,711          803,580
351,664          275,781             98,392             3,804           729,641
434,124          417,139            161,934            10,276        1,023,473
480,028          459,230            182,594             4,826        1,126,678
Source: INCOFER, Direccion de Planificacion y Desarrollo



- 50 -                                       ANNEX  3
Table S
COSTA RICA
TRANSPORT SECTOR2 PROJECT
Allcati.o  of Cete(C.R.S 1111Iin,1966)
Actual Costs        Mlsman Cost Poasible
_________--____     ______ ---_- _ _-----                  Actul Costs         winiium Costs
TRACK:          Variable Fi ed  Toto l      arblb  Flixed  Total                 Variable Yotal    Variable Total
"tlani/e/aan  Lime.
Esteel?    35.00  I8g0   ".80         10.00  21.00  11.00                   35.00   $8.30      10.00   81.00
Cnteal line   76.70  25170 2440            2000  26.00   42.00                   73.70  194.40       2 .00   42.00
Other Spvur    8  70   6.40  46.10         0 '*  18.00   27.00                   8 .70   45.10       9.00   27.00
Sut 'Ttel          10.40  28.00  17t.40       46.W    5.00  100.00                 150.40  176.40       46.00  100.00
Atlantlc/Mo.atain Llin:
Lo Jnto - Co-tago   61.50  10.I 0   02.40        42.00  11.00   53.00                  51.50   02.40       42.00   68.00
Crtego - AleJuel    29.20   6.60   85.00          28.00   7.00   80.00                 29.20   85.60       23.00   30.00
Sub-Total          W. 70  17.50   oe.20       05.00  11.01   68.00                  30.70   9e.20      6s.00   68.00
Pacifle Li (all)         126.90  87.20  16. 10    108.00  87.00  140.00                   12"8.0   6. .10    103.00  140.00
TOTAL TRACK        800.00  62.70  442.70    218.00 110.00  323.00                   o60.00  442.70    213.00  323.00
0lffer.ne: Revanue-Costa
Revenue      Acturl Coats       Minimue Costs
CRIillion  Veriablo Total    Variable Totrl
SERVICES:                                                             --------   -------- -----    -------- -----
PASS A"ERS
Atlantic LUna
Bansna Line   56.90  18.00   69.90        64.00  11.00   65.00       14.60    -42.40  -56 40    -39.50  -60 So
Mountain Line   5S.50   3.20   05.70        61.00   7.00   58.00        *.60    -46.70  -54.90    -42.20  -49.20
Suburbon Son Jose    7.40   3.00   10.40         6.00   8.00    9.00        2.70      -4.70   -7.70       -3.30   -6.30
Sub - Total        119.60  24.70  144.00    111.00  21.00  132.00         26.00    -93.60 -116.00    -s6 00 -106.00
Pecific Line   Ji.60  12.60   30.10        22.00  11.00   48.00       17.60       0.00  -12.00    -14.50  -26.60
TOTAL PASSENGERS      137.80  86.00  174.10    143.00  32.00  176.00         43.60    -98.90 -130.60    -98.50 -131.50
Atletic/Somnon Llne
Eutr-fll   27.90   9.20   86 10        10.00   7.00   17.00    56.10         26.20   17,00      43 10   36.10
Other Ban       59a 6e.20  20.20   79.40   11.00  17.00   28.00       36.50      27.30    7.10      7c.60  56.50
Non  anoaa Cargo    5.10   6.60   11.70         4.00   6.00   10.00        9.70       4.e0   -2.00        6.70   -0.80
Sub - Total         92.20  8S.00  127.20       26.00  80.00   66.00    149.80        57.10   22.10    124.80   94.80
Leoe then Car Lood   26.90   4.70   80.60        J8.00   4.00   87.00         3.40    -22.30  -27.20    -29.60  -38.60
bountaln Line Cargo   94.40  21.30  116.70         70.00  16.00   oe.00      65.20    -81.20  -52.50         e..0  -24.00
Sub - Total        120.80  2e.00  146.80    108.00  22.00  125.00         64.60   -43.70  -79.70    -88.40  -68.40
Pacific Line;
Wheat/aerranec     1.10   2.20    8.40        1.00   2.0    3t.00        8.60       2.70    c.40        2.80    0.30
Other (Full Carl   7i.40  43.80  126.70        67.00  40.00  127.00       68.30      -9.10  -E7.40    -13.70  -56.70
Lsec than Car Loed   22.60   1.70   24.50         19.00   1.00   20.00        1.60    -21.00  -22.70    -17 20  -13.20
Sub - Total        101.80  52.80  158.00    107.00  43 00  150 00         73.90    -27.40  -79.70    -33 10  -76.10
TOTAL *VICES         461.10 160.10  001.20    576.00 127.00  606.00    383.50   -117.30 -207.90    -44.70 -171.70
Un4A11cIted(Jolt)    138.30  36.00  171.80    100.00  80.00  17C.00            33.90    -99 b0 -137.60    -46.20  -96.20
C0tA)  TOTAL       944.40 270.60 1216.20    691.00 267.00  958.00          07. 10   -677.10 -448.10   -323.90 -690.30
-----  --   mm mumn- *.-.s                                                       M _m            u _  _
Source:INCOFEU  ,Olrecclon Finonciera and Mission Estimat e



- 51-                                     ANNEX 3
Table 5
COSTA RICA
TRANIPIRT KCTOR PROJECT
TNCOFr'S Revenueo  r.m Operstlens
Atlentic Line
(1"7)
Tone            Ter-Ies.  Rev. Cots       CI       0s
libeeseo   1it o    (MIullen)  (MlIIloe)  Nov./To For 4wn/ka.
CnOMMDITY MOM.        9
CUMITIVED:             ----    --                     -       -
OMESTIC CARGO:
Packer"g:
Llm./Estrello        17.30    54.00     0.36        6.02    n83.20      6.26
Llmon/Spwr li"*          7.60   105.00     0.30        5.02     oo0o.5     0.29
Wood
Vegetables
FuwlsMien/Certee         97.90   141.00    18.30       51.40     525.03     3.72
Other       16.20   164.00      2.6       10.67     668.64      4.02
Sub-Total           123.30   131.00    10.15       02.44      506.41     3.37
IWORT TRAFFIC:
Stool-Colima        4.60   170.00      0.76       2.67      530.43     3.41
Popor:S.Jose        2.10   166.00      0.35        1.23     609.12     3.69
SoynFlour:S.Joeo        0.50   165.00      0.00       0.24      430.00     2.91
Botiled Drinks         2.00   135.00     0.37        1.29     045.00     8.49
misc.       24.00   175.00      4.20      14.52     60o.00      1.46
Sub-Tot*l            33.20   127.00      4.22      20.00      002.41     4.74
EXPORT TRAFFIC:
Snning:
Estrella/Moin      227.20    54.00    12.27       92.47      362.96     6.72
Other Spuea/id.l       97.40   106.00    10.23       03.72      706.64     6.72
Sub-Total           324.60    79.00    25.64      151.19      465.77     5.90
OTHER:
Own Account       17.40
Parcel, and/or  Mall        1.50                          4.47    2910.00
Sub-Total             13.30    3.00      1.66        4.47     230.51     2.69
TOTAL CAtOO          500.00    02.00    46.00      233.10      476.20     5.13
of which:        _     ___       -    _ ___             ------     ------   ------
lmport/Export      367.30    30.00    82.20      171.19      478.45     5.32
Full cor      431.10   110.00    62.92      238.63      436.62     4.41
boeotlc      128.80   131.00    16.15       62.44
Pisoengoro(1000)         1303.00                         22.64      17.30
Pth*r Servicee                                       2.- 
RIEVUIE FROM  PER:                                      90. 04
TOTAL REVENUES:                                         20J.63
Source: IKCOFER, Direccion de Planiflcacion y Proyectoe, March 1"7



52-                                  ANNEX 3
Table 6
COSTA RICA
TRANStORT SECTOR PROJECT
INCOfER S Revenues From Operations
Pacific Line
(1967)
Tons            1om-e.  Row. CR         ICII      U s
Thousand   km.   (MillIon)  (Million)  Rev./Ton Per ten/km.
COMIODITY MOVED:      --------   ----    --------   --------  ______- --------
OOMESTIC CAROO:
_____________
W,lat.:Brra/AImjwela       15.60    f6.00      1.88       4.62     2n.0e       8.47
Wood        4.90   140.00      0.69       2.28     455.10      8.25
Other        6.00   149.00      0.39       8.06      610.00     8.42
Sub-Total             26.4   110.00      2.91       9.91      875.83     3.40
IMPORT TRAFFIC:
Wheat:
Punts./Aljuele           9.40   101.00    10.04        86.23    J84.61      8.81
Punts./Sarrane           88.10    15.00     0.50        1.69      57.10     8.81
Steel      120.10    95.00    11.41       86.79     806.88      8.22
Beer        4.40   120.00      0.53       1.9Vw     446.46     8.71
Misc.       11.30    95.00      1 12       $.Ce     269.82      2.78
Sub - Total          263.30    37.76    28.59       61.93      104.60     8.47
-- - - --  -- -- ---  -- -----    -- -- ---    -- -- ---    -- ---
OTHER
Own Account        3.70
Parcels and Mail          0.7                          1.43    2042.36
Caldera bound cargo         1.50    75.00     0.11        0.41     278.83     8.64
Sand and Stone       60.80    96.00      5.78       6.11      101.88     1.07
Sub - Total            71.20    32.04     5.64        7.95     111.66     4.71
-- - - --  -- -- ---  -- -- ---    -- -- --- _ - - - - - -- _
TOTAL CARGO          866.40    37.00    81.33        9.79      272.85     8.18
Of whlch:                 ------   ------   -----       ------     ------   ------
Import      263.30    67.78    28.69       31.98     804.30      8.47
Full car      857.00    90.00    82.18       96.86      275.62     8.06
Domestic       26.40   110.28      2.91       9.91      876.83     8.41
Possengers(1000)          539.00                         13.80      31.75
Sales: Sand/stone                                         3.30
Other Services
EVEtUE FROM OPER:                                       126.97
TOTAL REVENUES:                                         185.27
Source: INCOFER, Dlroccion de Plonlflcaclon y Proyectos, March 19137



- 53 -                             ANNEX 3
Table 7
COSTA RICA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Summary Financial Performance
(million CR $)
Operating      Operating       Operational
Year        Revenue       Expenses          Deficit             R/E
1979        126             152             26                   0.83
1980        159             223             64                   0.71
1981       214              263             49                   0.81
1982        342             396             54                   0.86
1983        696             666            -30                   1.05
1984        584             882            298                   0.66
1985        429             804            375                   0.53
1986        311             730            419                   0.42
1987        442            1023            581                   0.43
1988        540            1127            587                   0.48
Source:  INCOFER, Direcci6n de ,   ificaci,n N Desarroilo



-54 -                     ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 7
COSTA RICA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
THE PORT SUB-SECTOR
Costa Rica's Ports
1.01     Costa Rica has six ports on the Pacific coast handling about 25Z
of the country's international maritime traffic and two ports on the
Atlantic coast, handling about 75Z of the traffic.
1.02     The Pacific coast ports include two public ports, Caldera and
Puntarenas, which are owned and operated by the Instituto Costarricense de
Puertos del Pacifico (INCOP) and four specialized ports, which include
Morales, for sugar, Fertica, for materials to and from the fertilizer
plant, Golfito and Quepos, both banana ports (although Quepos is now little
used). Fertica and Morales are industry owned and operated. Golfito and
Quepos are owned by the MOPT, jointly with the local development agency in
the case of Quepos.
1.03     The two Atlantic coast ports are under the jurisdiction of the
Junta de Administracion Portuaria y de Desarrollo Economico de la Vertiente
Atlantica (JAPDEVA). Puerto Limon is operated by JAPDEVA. At Moin, the
banana berths are operated by JAPDEVA whilst the petroleum products berth
is operated by the oil company (RECOPE). This annex is concerned primarily
with the berths operated by JAPDEVA (Limon and Moin) and with the movement
of goods between these ports and the capital, and, to a lesser extent, with
the ports of INCOP (Caldeta and Puntarenas).
Port Organization
1.04     The Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MOPT) is responsible
in general terms for the development of the porto of Costa Rica. Major
development schemes at the ports are prepared and executed by the MOPT,
either in response to requests from the port authorities or on the basis of
the Ministry's overall assessment. Works, once executed, are put at the
disposal of the port authorities, who are then at least in principle
responsible for their maintenance, without the port authorities assuming
any financial obligations for the assets transferred. Major maintenance
and rehabilitation is usually the responsibility of the Ministry though not
invariably; for example, the rehabilitation of Muelle 70 at Limon is funded
by USAID and executed by JAPDEVA.
1.05     The preparation of overall port development plans is the
responsibility of the Planning Directorate of the MOPT (DGP) with schemes
submitted for MIDEPLAN's scrutiny and approval according to the procedure
for public sector investment.  Development w2rk at the Ministry is the
responsibility of the Department of Port Works (DOP), part of the
Directorate of Port and River Works (DGOPF) which is itself part of the
Public Works Division. Tariff and related studies including the
introduction of measures to improve port productivity are *he
responsibility of the Directorate of Maritime Transport (DGTM) within the
Transport Division of th^- Ministry.



- 55 -                  ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 7
1.06     The budgets of the port authorities are approved by the National
Audit Board (NAB) following the normal procedures for public sector bodies,
though without a formal procedure for their technical analysis by the MOPT.
There is no clear procedure for project preparation, whether within the
MOPT or within the two authorities. A two level National Port Council
(Consejo Nacional Portuario) was established in 1982 with a Council drawn
primarily from government and the authorities plus an advisory board with
members from port users.1 In the absence of a full time secretarial and
tec.;nical staff, the Council's functioning has been marked by periods of
intermittent activity, although recently it has begun again to meet
regularly and has set-up sub-committees on special items i.e. cruise-
vessels, grain handling and labor problems in JAPDEVA.
1.07     The National Transport Plan recommended the strengthening of the
coordinating and regulatory role of the Direccion General de Transporte por
Agua (as it then was), with the idea of creating a National Ports Authority
(NPA) at the opportune moment.
1.08     The present organization of the port sector, involving the
Ministry and the two port-cum-development authorities, lacks clarity and
hence does not provide effective control nor ensures the best allocation of
resources. The essential elements are for the port authority budgets to be
subject to a thorough analysis based on an understanding of the costs
involved and for the port investment plans, both of the port authorities
and of the Ministry, to be evaluated on an overall basis, i.e., looking at
national traffics and projections and hence needs. A strong and united
position in front of the shipping lines is a priority. Another is the
administrative strengthening of the existing National Parts Council. One
option is the immediate creation of a national ports authority but there
is. in our view, an important clement of timing in the identification of
the best institutional arrangement. Where a period of substantial
infrastructure investment is anticipated, then a'national port authoritv
can do much to ensure a rational allocation of re3ources and to achieve
standardization in equipment and systems. Once major investments are in
place the need is to make most efficient use of them and here the direct
responsibility of port management (and a certain degree of competition) are
the priority elements, where separate authorities may be preferable.
1.09     A Ports Office within the MOPT has been reactivated by bringing
together the DGOP and the DGTM, in order to advise the Minister in the
areas outlined above.  This office serves as a focus within Government for
ports and maritime affairs and could at a later stage form the basis of a
National Ports Authority, should this option be chosen.
JAPDEVA
1.10     JAPDEVA was establishea in 1963 and reformed in 1973 with
responsibility for port administration, planning and development on the
Atlantic coast plus the economic and social development in the region.   A
1/ The Council includes: the Minister of Public Works and Transport (as
President) plus the Minister of Finance (or nominee), the presidents of
INCOP, JAPDEVA, RECOPE, INCOFER and the Directors General of Public
Works and Maritime Transport (Decreto 13894-T of 29 September 1982).



- 56 -                     ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 7
general manager is responsible for three divisions: Port, Administration
and Development. Thus, the administrative function is common to the two
operating divisions. The Port Division comprises four departments: Port
Operations, Technical, Marine and Marketing.  The Port Operations
department includes Supervisors for Limon and Moin. An important duty of
JAPDEVA is the issuing of licenses for stevedoring companies to work in the
port.
INCOP
1.11     INCOP  was established in 1953 and reformed in 1972 with
responsibility for the administration, planning and development of the
Pacific coast ports, in practice Puntarenas and Caldera. Its organization
includes three divisions: Engineering, Administration and Finance, Port
Operations. All operations, including stevedoring, are undertaken directly
by INCOP. The Executive President and the boards of both authorities are
appointed by the President of the Republic. The boards each consist of six
members, three of whom are elected (for eight-year terms) every four years,
with the change in Government.
1.12     Given the size of the ports involved:  approximately seven berths
on the Atlantic coast at Limon and Moin, and five berths on the Pacific
coast at Caldera and Puntarenas, the orga;.izational structures of both
authorities are disproportionately complex. Some further decentralization
of functions, including administration, to operating units appears to be
possible.  The relative roles of the two authorities and of the M4nistry 'll
respect of the functions of planning, development. maintenance a.d
administration are not explicitly defined, nor the mechanism for their
interaction.
Port Employment
1.13     JAPDEVA employs approximately 1,500 persons, of whom about 1,100
are engaged in port related activities. To this number has to be added the
stevedores: there are approximately 1,500 men registered as stevedores,
though since this work is casual, this number is probably equivalent to
600-700 full time positions, making a total for Limon/Moin of 1700-1850
iobs. INCOP currently employs just o,rer 1,000 men. Based on traffic
volumes and on international standards. totals around 1250 at Limon/Moin
and 750-850 at Caldera/Puntarenas would be appropriate. The number at
Limon/Moin is particularly sensitive to the proportion of bananas that are
containerized: if this proportion, currently 262, were to increase
substantially the number of men required would be less.
Port Traffic
1.14     Total port traffic in 1988 was just over 3.1 million tons of which
732 was through Atlantic coast ports and 272 through Pacific coast ports.
Up to 1964/65, the two coasts had equal shares of traffic. With
improvements first in the railway between the Atlantic coast and the



-57 -                     ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 7
capital and more recently with road improvements, the share of the Atlantic
coast ports has increased steadily. Annual traffic growth over the past 20
years has been about 92 on the Atlantic coast and about 3? on the Pacific
coast.
1.15     Atlantic coast traffic has increased from 1.96 million tons in
1982 to 2.8 million tons in 1988. During this four year period petroleum.
Products traffic has increased by 45Z and non-petroleum products by 192
Three items: petroleum products, non-containerized bananas and
container/Ro-Ro traffic (which includes some bananas) together make up
about 902 of all traffic. Imports and exports are about equal in tonnage
terms although 66? of imports is represented by petroleum products.
1.16     Container movements through Limon/Moin more than doubled between
1982 and 1988 when there was a total of 60,683 movements equivalent to
105,966 t.e.u's (twenty foot equivalent units). About 45Z of the
containerized export traffic is made up of containerized bananas which are
loaded at Moin using ships gear.
1.17     Cruise ships represent a new and potentially important traffic
with a weekly visit expected for this year at Limon/Moin, with a call every
four days at Caldera/Puntarenas. The growth of this business which is
concentrated, though not exclusively, on Miami, has been rapid in recent
years and as part of their competitive package, cruise operators are quick
to add attractive new calls to their itineraries. It offers the
possibility of developing new sources of employment for Limon and
Puntarenas.
Installations and Equipment
1.18     There is a total of 6/8 berths at Limon/Moin and 5 at
Caldera/Puntarenas, including the two berths at Puntarenas which are no
longer in operation. Caldera has three berths with a total length of 490 m
and a Ro-Ro ramp- Punta:-enas has two berths temporarily out of service for
rehabilitation. At Limon there is a two berth container/Ro-Ro terminal
brought into use in 1982 and one berth on the Muelle 70, currently being
rehabilitated. A further 1/2 berths will be availEble on the Muelle 70
when a sunken ship is removed. There is in additibn a former Ro/Ro berth
and the remains of the Muelle Metalico, which was constructed before 1904.
Moin includes two banana berths and one petroleum berth combined with a Ro-
Ro ramp. This berth serves also the bulk installation of Fertica. All
four ports have rail access. Major equipment items include four banana
loaders, a bulk unloader and oil reception facilities at Moin with a
container crane plus four straddle carriers at Limon. Caldera has two
heavy duty front loaders for loaded containers. There are two tugboats at
Limon and one at Moin, which is provided by RECOPE. Caldera has two tugs.
Cargo Handling Operations and Costs
1.19     At Limon and Moin, there are three lndependent stevedoring
companies, licensed by JAPDEVA. These companies provide labor for work on
the ships. They own no Pquipmert and hire fork-lift trucks etc. (with
drivers) as necessary from JAPDEVA. Manning levels are those appropriate



- 58 -                     ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 7
for pre-unitized cargo operations and there are a number of restrictive
practices such as the requirement to allocate a minimum of two gangs to any
ship, including full container ships. The overmanning that results from
this is most serious on the container terminal and would have applied also
to the bulk fertilizer installation but for a recent decision not to use
dock workers for this operation.
1.20     INCOP provides all labor and equipment at Caldera/Puntarenas.  The
ship workers enjoy similar agree-ner.ts concerning manning to those at
Limon/Moin, resulting in serious overmanning on the bulk grain and
fertilizer ships. INCOP has taken some steps to achieve a more appropriate
manning.
1.21     Productivity in terms of tons per ship-hour on berth is given in
Table 10. The Limon/Moin figures are good, with a figure for the container
terminal of 11.9 moves (20.8 teu) per ship hour, i.e. the total time that
the ship is on the berth. The conventional general cargo and banana
loading figures are also good. The Caldera figure for containers at 7.0
moves per hour is not so good, though the figure for the general cargo
(62.1 tph) is high, partly on account of the substantial proportion of iron
and steel products in the total. The Puntarenas wheat figure at 43.9 tph
is very low, equivalent to about 1,000 tons per day, on account of the bad
state of the pier, which limits use of the rail line next to the ship.
1.22     The comparative cost of using Costa Rican ports is important for
two reasons:  first is the impact of port costs on the final cost of
exports and imports, affecting the competitivity of Costa Rican products
and the national cost of living. Second, the cost of using the port is one
factor in the decision of a shipping company seeking a base port, for
regional distribution. In both cases the impact of port productivity on
ship time costs is likely to be as important as direct out-of-pocket costs.
The WITASS Conference is currently applying a US$7 per ton port cost
surcharge to cargo handled at Limon, justifying this by the claimed
relatively high cost of the port. Reliable comparative data are not easy
to assemble: what we have ate indices of port costs and productivity from
WITASS and the results of a recent MOPT study. These figures (table 12)
appear to indicate that charges to the ship (port tariff plus stevedoring)
are indeed relative! high in Limon but that so is productivity (primarily
referring to conitainer ships). Shipping conferences are open to
negotiation and pressure on surcharges and this should be an importaniL
element of the work of the DGTM. The Louisiana report makes a detailed
analysis, using a macro-econometric model, of the impact of port costs on
delivered cost and the effect of changes in port costs (and productivity).
In general terms, it concludes that while port costs are not a substantial
proportion of the delivered price, nevertheless reductions in port costs
may have a significant effect on the total traffic volume. The report also
suggests that the application of standard costs would tend to increase
container handling charges, since the port authority is not recovering full
costs at present. This underlines the need to achieve a rationalization
and reduction of stevedoring charges on the container terminal.



- 59 -                     ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 7
1.23     The most serious and intractable problems in the cargo handling
area are the organizational arrangements and manning levels for the
handling of containers and bulks, both on ship and on shore. Fair
solutions to the labor redundancy prWlems, particularly irk JAPDEVA need to
be found, possibly the diversion of personnel to the development aspects
while retaining some of their previously acquired rights. Free-zone style
business is possibly related to agro-industrial investments need to be
sought. The management of the container terminal at Limon needs to be
unified, including the work on board the ships.
Maintenance and Development
1.24     Maintenance effort at Limon has concentrated on the rehabilitation
of the general cargo Muelle 70 under USAID financing at a cost of
approximately US$1.2 million. This work involved the repair of the
structure and of the rail-mounted crane that services both sides of the
jetty. At Moin, the approach channel to the berths has been subject to
sedimentation and will require maintenance dredging within the next two
years. JAPDEVA has plans to purchase a dredger for this work.
1.25     JAPDEVA's expansion plans at Limon/Moin include the provision of a
third banana berth at Moin, partly in the context of the creation of an
industrial zone there, the purchase of a tug, the construction of a slipway
at Limon for tug maintenance, the paving of the Muelle Metalico and various
equipnient items including a dredger and the replacement of the present
fileet of straddle carries. The longer term picture should be clearer when
the updated Master Plan is available later this year.
1.26     Maintenance efforts at Caldera have concentrated on the dredging
of the berths to their original depth. This work was finished with a
contract funded jointly by USAID, the Dutch government and RECOPE at a cost
of approximately US$350 thousand. Littoral drift past the existing
breakwater has been a continuing problem at Caldera and in a partly
successful attempt to alleviate the problem, the MOPT has been extending
the existing breakwater. This work has suffered some wave damage, possibly
on account of insufficiently heavy armouring and the recent JICA study
(2)recommends a 200 m extension to the breakwater at a cost of US$8
million. The proposal needs to be evaluated carefully against the
alternatives of regular dredging, use of a sand pump. and/or a continuation
of the present work of extension, possibly with improved armouring. The
DGOP has prepared a plan for the rehabilitation of the jetty at Puntarenas,
at an estimated cost of about US$2.0 million.
1.27     INCOP's expansion plans at Caldera include both berth extension
and the construction of grain silos and related works, at an estimated cost
of US$30 million. This grain was previously handled by direct discharge to
rail wagons at Puntarenas, which incurs substantial ship demurrage. There
is are a number of options and the proposal requires a thorough evaluation
of alternatives, including the use of Moin.
1.28     Reception facilities for cruise ships are inadequate.  These
vessels at present berth chiefly at M-ini (on the tanker berth) and at
Caldera, in neither case exploiting the potential of these ships for the



- 60 -                    ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 7
traditional port towns of Limon and Puntarenas. Occasionally they berth at
the container terminal in Limon, though this is clearly undesirable as a
longer term solution. The revision of the Master Plan for Limon should
consider how best to accommodate these ships, possibly at a strengthened
Muelle 70, whilst the study of the rehabilitation of the Puntarenas jetty
should be based on their use of this facility.
Training
1.29     Following the modernization of the port installations in the
1970's, the CPN (Consejo Portuario Nacional) invited the ILO (International
Labor Organization) to analyze training needs for port operations. As a
result of this work the Centro Nacional de Formacion y Capacitaci6n
Portuaria (CENFCCAP) was established in 1982, with experts assigned by
UNDP/ILO in 1982/83. The Centre is now able to offer courses in five main
areas: cargo handling, equipment operation, safety, security and equipment
maintenance. Further training has been provided by German-financed
technical assistance, through CENFOCAP.
Financial Performance
1.30     Details of the financial performance of the port authorities have
been entered in the project file. Both ports have reasonable financial
positions, with a 1988 working ratio of 86 and an operating ratio or 94 for
INCOP. In the case of JAPDEVA, the 1988 working ratio is 86. As
depreciation is only on the historic value of the port equipment, it is
relatively insignificant and the working ratio is also the operating ratio.



COSTA RICA
TRANS?ORT SECTOR PROJECT
Action Plan for the Rationalization of Port Srvices
Objectiv               Instruments                      Action              R.sponsibilities       Ti-ing
1. Operational
(a) Operational        Roviow operational               Proent              MOPT/JAPOEVA/          July 1992      Identification
Efficiency         organization, working            diagnosis           INCOP/Consultants                     of critical
mathoda, labor practicee         and                                                       isues.
and institutional arrange-       recommendations
manta (public and private)
in Lim6n and Puntarenos.
Implement          LVPT/JAPDEVA/           starting      Operotionl
recommendationo    INCOP                   December       improvements
1992
2. Financial
(a) Improve tariff    Develop a cost information        Implement a         INCOP/JAPDEVA          June           Eatabligh on
*y-tem _y-tem                                       managoment          Coneult nts            1992           efficient
informntion                                              costing
system                                                    system
(b) Ensuro the         Carry out the necesoary          Cnerate and         INCOP                  Annually       Adequot
capacity of        dredging to ensure               allocate to                                               birth
Puerto Caldera    availability of the               dredging the                                              capecity
birthe                           necesoary funde
8. Institutional
(a) Improve MOPT's   Review *xioting MOPT               Define the          MOPT/Consultants       Deember        Improve sector
regulatory        organization in                  optimal organiza-                           1091          efficiency
functions          the port subeector               tion for the sub-
sector
(b) Improv- customs   Review existing                   Implement a         LOPT/MH/               June 1992      m prov  too
operations         procedures and identify          comunication        Consultants                           transport of
critical areas                   network between                                            odos
entry points and
othor custom areas
.~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U



- 62 -
ANNEX 6
COSTA RICA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
PERFORMANCE TARGETS OF' THE PROJECT
FEDERAL ROADS                       1990    1991 1/  1992    1993   1994   1996    1996
Road Rehabilitation (kms)l/              -       30      196      100    100    100        39
Periodic Maintenance (kms)1/             -       67      190     200    200    216         20
Routine Maintenance                      -    12.8    12.8    12.8   12.8   12.8    12.8
(1989 USS millions)
CANTONAL ROACS
Rehabilitation A Improv ents (kmn*)  88         126       6e    140    140    1C4    na.
Periodic Maintenance (km)              100      106      200     333    347    380    na.
Routine Maintenance (kmi)             1360    1850    2150    2350   3000   3000    3000
RAILWAYS
Staffing                              2038    1688    1338    1288   na.    na.    n.a.
Freight Traffic
(tons 1O8  )                          1.06    1.12    1.24    1.36  na.    na.    na.
Government Transfer*
(1989 C millions)                    326.0   274.6   231.2   130.9         0       0       0
PORTS
INCOP's Operating Ratio              na.         96       93      93      93      93       93
INCOP's Working Ratio                 n.s.       88       85      85      85      86       86
INCOP's Grain Handling (t.p.d.)    1600    1696    1896    2000   2000   2000    2000



- 63 -
ANNEX 7
COSTA RICA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
MOPT's 1991-95 Investment and Maintenance Program (IMP) and the Bank Proiect
(US$ million, including contingencies)
Component                      Total IMP      ------------Bank Project ------------
Total    Local       Foreign   Loan Amount
Road*
Now Construction                 116.8        -          -          -          -
Rehabilitation/improvements    213.0          40.72      11.61      29.11      24.33
Maintenance:
Periodic                         69.1        29.60       8.40      21.20      17.86
Routine                          77.0        -           -          -          -
Equipment                         11.9         9.14       -          9.14       9.14
Ports                             60.4         8.40       3.46       4.94       4.94
Civil Aviation                    26.6         -          -          -          -
Engineering and Supervision        -           5.38       3.e3       1.75       1.76
Tochnical Assistance               -           3.60       1.32       2.28       2.28
Total                            663.8        96.84      28.42      68.42     60.9a
Estimated Financing Plan
Government of Costa Rica         289.7
IDB                               71.1
Federal Republic of Germany        4.6
IBRD                              60.0
B.C.I.E.                          40.3
Japan                             34.0
KFW                               33.0
Not defined                       21.1



- 64 -                  ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
COSTA RICA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
ROAD TRANSPORT
Road Rehabilitation and Periodic Maintenance Program
General
1.       The civil works component of the Project consists of: (i) a road
rehabilitation program of about 458 km of the National paved road network;
and (ii) the periodic maintenance of about 878 km of the National paved
road network. The periodic maintenance program will be fully carried out
by MOPT which will be assisted by the technical assistant in charge of the
pavement management system. All civil works financed by the Bank would be
executed by contract.
Road Rehabilitation Program
2.       Based upon a detailed road inventory of the existing national
paved road network and on the use of HDM-3 (Highway Design and Maintenance
Model, version no. 3), a set of about 39 road links totalling 458 km has
been selected for rehabilitation. These 458 km represent about 14Z of the
national paved road network and they support about 20Z of the traffic.
Because of lack of adequate and timely periodic maintenance, these roads
are entering into the dangerous area of accelerated deteriorations.
3.       The first-year program totals 10 road links and 229.7 km (see
Table 1 and Map IBRD 21070). Engineering studies have been carried out by
MOPT and found satisfactory by the Bank. The technical data of the
first-year program are detailed in Table 1. Two sets of ICB would be
launched. Bid A for the San Jose-Limon road would be followed about three
months later by Bid B for San Jose-Liberia road to avoid overloading MOPT's
capacity, and also possible bottleneck in asphalt supply. Bid A would
include links 1 + 2 (60 km, US$3.32 m) and links 3 + 5 + 6 (72.9 km,
US$4.22 m). Depending upon the combination of cost proposal, one or two
contracts would be awarded. Bid B would include links 4 + 7 (16.5 km;
US$1.29 m) and links 8 + 9 + 10 (80.3 km; US$7.50 m).  One or two contracts
would also be awarded for Bid B.
4.       The size of the contracts that may reach US$7.5 m for Bid A and
US$8.8 m for Bid B should prove attractive to foreign firms. The size and
timing of the bidding would be agreed upon during negotiations.
5.       The second part of the rehabilitation program of the national
paved road network would include about 228 km of road links listed in
Table 2. Thus, a tentative second-year program screened, using the HDM 3
consists of 65 km that would receiv  10 cm concrete rsphalt; 146 km that



- 65 -                  ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
would be reinforced with an additional base course and about 17 km for
which the type of work is not yet identified. The program would be revised
and updated with the help of the technical assistance in charge of the
pavement management system in the second year of the project. The
second-year program will be discussed with the Bank; then the technical
studies would be carried out by a consulting firm that would also assist
MOPT with the supervision. The technical studies, bidding lots, bidding
documentation for studies and for works would be agreed upon by the Bank.
6.       The cost estimate of the rehabilitation progr.am is based upon unit
costs of recent bidding, net of taxes. The breakdown into local component
(28Z) and foreign component (722) is consistent with this type of works
that include a large fraction of imported asphalt binder and fuel for
heating hot-mix and transportation of chips and concrece asphalt over long
distances.
Summary of the Rehabilitation Program
km      US$m
First-year Program              229.7      16.34
Second-Year Program             228.1      16.22
Total                           457.8      32.66
7.       Consulting services would be hired to assist MOPT in the
supervision of the rehabilitation program. The supervision team for the
first-year program (54 man-months) would include R Senior Highway Engineer
(head of mission) for a 22-months period, a geotechnical engineer for a
four-months period, a field supervision highway engineer for Group A
contracts for a 13-months period and another engineer for Group B contracts
for a 15-months period.
Periodic Maintenance Program
8.       MOPT's maintenance management system is not accurate erough to
determine an adequate periodic maintenance policy and to select and rank by
priority order specific road links. However, it is possible through the
analysis of the road inventory to determine the order of magnitude of
reasonable needs. This order of magnitude is based upon an average
periodicity of about eight years for resealing or resurfacing of the
existing fraction of the network in good or fair condition. Under these
assumptions a five-year periodic maintenance program of the national paved
road network would be cf about 878 km corresponding to annual targets of
175 km.



- 66 -                  ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
9.       Simulation exercises on HDM have permitted MOPT to screen for
periodic maintenance on about 513 km of the paved national road network
(Table 3). Therefore, about 365 km additional road link would be
identified during the implementation period. The unit in charge of the
pavement management system would (i) develop methodologies and procedures
to quantify the condition of the network in objective terms considering the
age of the roads, the date of the last resealing. the percentages of
surface degradations and the roughness index; (ii) determine a set of
typical works such as single surface treatment, double surface traatment,
slurry seal or resealing; (iii) rank by economic priority order the road
links; and (iv) determine bidding lots based upon geographic and technical
considerations. The annual programs, the distribution and size of bidding
lots and the corresponding plan of actions ould be approved by the Bank.
10.      The simplified final design and supervision of works that are
rather simple would be carried out by MOPT with the help of the Technical
Assistance. The works would be implemented by contractors following ICB.
The annual program would represent an average of about US$6.4 million
(including contingencies) that may be divided into four bidding lots of
about US$1.6 million each.
11.      The typical costs per kilometer of surface treatment and of
resealing with 5 cm concrete asphalt are based upon recent contracts and
represent a national cost average.  The total cost for a five-year program
is US$29.60 m of which US$21.20 represent the foreign component to carry
out about 8/8 km of periodic maintenance divided into about 293 km of
surface treatment and 585 km of resealing.



gISTA RICA
TRISECTORt PROJCT
Ng) TRAWPORT
F_-st-Ye- RhgiIliJt*ti  Pjroare.
Technical nd Finpncial Data
1. Technical Onto
Road                             Code      Longth   11 C.chk (1Q87)   2t!ctiwt           tins  Psnt (-c   T,affic 1986            *illion       Strenathuinn  (co)
Lin       Dt.Krirtion          Numbe       (he)     II*i Tx RA                        Q4- PIM        1b8bei    ADT  T  Truck  8L2t iis   SA s             uA
1     8.rbiIIl-Lison          70070/80     41.4       21                 35   7       7      22      30         1,030    38         4.97       7
2     Siquirres-B.rbill    70090          18.6       21                 37   7       7      22      30        2,700    51          9.31       8.5
3     Enls8bof-Siquirres      30002        39.9       21                 56   11      4 5    16       4A       i,566    38          4.08       7.5 -6
6     Parsiso-Cor-ant.s       30020        15.0       36        17      102   54      6      18      23        2.395    33          5.41       7.5         15                             I
6     Cersuntem-Turrialbs    30010         16.0        i5                95   31      6      23      14        2,585    32          4. 72     10.0
4     R. Cr-cia-R. Naranjo   20080          8.2        70       23       52   18      7      20      33        5,510    28          8.36       6.5
7     R. Nra.njo-P.tI.er.a   20040          8.3        77       11       73   15      7      20      33        3,760    25          5.10       7.0
8     Ari,nna-L  o-a          50000         8.0        95       95       NA   NA      NL    NA       MA        2,227    30          4.5Ui      7.5         15
9     Li.ne-Dhoecea           50010/20     48.0        90       86       NA   NA      NA     NA      NA         1,672    29         3.31       7.6         15
10    8age.,-Liberim          50030        24J        90        35       NA   NA     NA      NA      NA        2,248    Il          2.78       7.5         15
229.7
T/ rafie gr.oth - 4%; Life - 10 yea-r
00



- 68 -                 ANNEX 8
Table 2
COSTA RICA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
ROAD COMPONENT
Tentative List of Road Links to be Rehabilitated
(First-Year Program Excluded)
Group A - Pavement Strengthening with 10 cm Concrete Asphalt
Length
Description                Link       Road       (km)        ADT
S. Jose-S. Pedro                19,004         2       2.60    26,010
S. Antonio-Road 122             40,130       111       2.90      4,330
El Cruce-Aserri                 10,212       209       4.10      2,825
S. Francisco-Heredia            40,120       111       4.60      1,720
Zarcero-Zapote                  20,610       141       9.40      1,628
Zapote-C. Quesada               20,620       141      18.00      1,528
El Cacao-S. Pedro               20,380       107       8.70        715
S. Pedro-Fraijames              20,541       146      12.10        568
Fraijame-Poasito                20,542       146       2.70        558
65.10
Group B - Pavement Strengthening Including a New Base Course
Length
Descriptior.               Link       Road       (km)        ADT
Saulo Domingo-La Puebla         40,060         5       3.3       5,995
S. Rafael-S. Ana                20,290       122       3.3       3,320
Cartago-San Blas                30,260       233       2.4       2,970
La Argentina-Grecia             20,422       154        7.2      1,820
S. Josa-Turrialba               30,213       230       2.9       1,480
Alaguela-Itiquis                20,351       130        3.6      1,375
Itiquis-S. Isidro               20,352       130       5.2       1,375
Ruta 135-Alto del Monte         20 100         3       8.7         985
La Guacima-San Rafael           20,264       124       3.8         900
S. Clara-Javillos               20,682       141       4.3         653
Desmonte-San Mateo              20,112         3        7.4        640
El Empalme-S. Maria             10,130       226      13.7         583
S. Maria-S. Marco               10,140       226       6.2         583
Alajuela-Carrizal               20,320       125      11.3         305
Jaco-Quebrada Palma             60,140        34      37.6         300
Rio La Muerta-Monterrey         21,352         4      12.2         292
Rosario-S. Elena                10,192       222       6.9         210
Vara Blanca-Poasito             20,550       120        5.9        170
145.9
Group C - Rehabilitation (Other Road Links)
Length
Description                Link       Road       (km)        ADT
S. Rafael-Escazu Sabana         19,010        27       4.4      17,226
Nicoya-La Mansion               50,130        21      12.7         700
17.1



-69 -                     ANNEX 8
Table 3
Page 1 of 2
COSTA RICA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
ROAD COMPONENT
Tentative List of Road Links for Periodic Maintenance
Group A - Surface Treatment
Length
Description                 Link          Road   (km)          ADT
S. Jose-Plaza Gonzales       19,051-19,052       209    4.6      19,000
General-Ent. Ruta 2              10,930          243    5.3          330
S. Isidoro-Trinidad              10,390          102    2.9        3,430
Trinidad-Moravia                 19,022          102    1.8        6,501
Colon-Brasil                     10,870           22    4.2          N/A
S. Miguel-Rio El Angel           20,590          126    9.8          350
Corbici-Upala                21,221-50,900         6   50.5          179
S. Pedro-Grecia                  20,400          107    3.4        1,250
S. Gabriel-Rosario               10,193          222    4.5          200
Vara Blanra-Carrizal             40,100          126    4.3          250
Cartagos-Carrizal                20,340          126    9.9          200
Tilaran-Najanros                 50,191          142    4.2          785
Najanros-Ajuos                   50,942          142   14.2          170
Rio Virilla-Rio Segundo          40,040            1    6.4       14,470
Quesada-Florencia                20,630          141    9.7        2,820
Ilano Grande-Guardia             50,082           21    6.1        1,500
Rio Segundo-Ruta III             20,131            3    2.6        6,470
Aguas Zarcas-Los Chiles          20,870          250    3.5        1,200
Chinchilla-COT                   30,242          219    4.2        2,350
Florencia-Quebrada Azul          20,640           35    4.8        1,170
Muelle-Terron                    21,060           35   11.5        1,012
Interanencana                    20,080            3    3.0        2,810
Total:                               173.0



- 70 -                    ANNEX 8
Table 3
Page 2 of 2
COSTA RICA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
ROAD COMPONENT
Tentative List of Road Links for Periodic Maintenance
Group B - Resealing (5 cm Concrete Asphalt)
Length
Description                 Link          Road   (km)         ADT
S. Jose-Tibas                   19,008             5    3.10    13,080
Liberia-Rio Tempisquito          50,040            1   24.7        1,150
R. Tempisquito-La Cruz           50,050            1   33.5        1,150
S. Pedro-Fuentes                 19,005            2    1.2      20,302
Fuentes-La Galera                19,006            2    2.5      20,302
Tres Rio-Quirazu                 30,111            2    3.1      12,138
Quirazu-Taras                    30,112            2    2.6       12,138
Aeropuerto-Alaguela              20,250          153    2.2       10,040
S. Ana-S. Antonio                40,370          122    1.5        3,320
Rio Virilla-S. Antonio           21,330          147    1.5        2,171
Pozos-R. Virilla                 10,450          147    2.5        2,171
S  Geraldo-Punta Mvrales       60,730           132   12.4         200
S. Miguel-La Virgen             40,481           126   11.9          585
Radia Grecia-La Argentina        20,421          154    2.1        1,825
Ruta 136-Ruta 135                20,090            3   11.0        1,885
Tibas-Rio Virilla                19,009            5    1.7        8,065
R. Virilla-S. Domingo            40,050            5    1.6        8,065
Alto Monte-Desmonte              20,111            3    4.8          640
Pueblo Viego-S. Rita             50,160           21   15.0          435
Barva-Puente Salas              40,080           126    2.7          770
Puente Salas-Carrizal            40,090          126    9.1          770
Heredia-Barba                    40,070          126    2.9        4,405
Rio Banano-Penshurt              70,040           36   23.5          305
Hone Creek-Bribri                70,010           36    9.4          250
Limon-Rio Banano                 70,050           36   10.6          610
Rio Claro-Golfito                60,250           14   23.1          695
Limonal-R. Tempisque             50,850           18   25.4          655
Cana-Los Aguilares               50,151          142   15.5          641
Los Aguilares-Tilaran            50,152          142    6.7          641
S. Cruz-Nicoya                   50,120           21   21.6        1,205
Frailes-La Siera                 10,180          222   10.3          263
R.S. Elena-Frailes               10,191          222    5.9          263
R. Jesus Maria-Esparza           60,560          131    8.3          385
Bario S. Jose-Tacares            20,150          118    8.1        1,600
Moravia-S. Juan de Tibas         19,019          102    1.7
El Limite-Los Colegios           19,020          102    0.9
Los Colegios-Moravia             19,021          102    0.9
E.L. Roble-Puntarenas            60,620           17   12.3
S. Jose-Sabana                   19,001            1    2.2
Total:                               340.0



- 71 -
ANNEX 9
COSTA RICA
TRANSPORT SECTOR SECTOR PROJECT
PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
Coot Estimate
CUSS illionl                   (Colonel million)
Total      Local   Forsion   Total         Local        Foreign
A. CIVIL WORKS:
(i)   ROADS:
1.   R-habilitation of trunk road*           32.64       9.14      23.62    2717.31    766.86        1964.46
2.   Poriodic maintenance                    23.84       6.66      17.14    1984.16    664.44        1426.72
Sub-Total                              6e.46      16.81      40.06    4697.47   1316.29        3382.18
(ii)   PORTS:
1.   Rehabilitation of Puntarenas
jetty                                  e.se       2.86       3.98      640.80    216.32        324.48
Sub-total                               6.6e       2.6e       3.96      640.80    216.32        324.48
S. ENGINEERING, SUPERVISION
A ADMINISTRATION:
1.   Engineering                              1.10       0.80       0.30       91.62      66.81        24.71
2.   Sup rvision                              2.70       1.38       1.32      224.84    114.57        110.07
3.   Administration                           6.PO       6.98       6.68       74.88      74.88         V.6
Sub-total                               4.76       3.68       1.62      391.04    256.26        134.78
C.  EQUIPMENT:
1.   Road maintenance                         5.66       0.10       4.90      416.00       8.32       467.68
2.   Grain handling                           e.ee       0.061      e.9        49.92       1.66        48.92
3.   In-transit cargo control                 e.66       6601       0.64       46.70       6.92        44.84
4.   Laboratories and miscelloneous           1.47       6.63       1.44      122.30       2.46       119.86
Sub-total                               7.62       0.16       7.47      633.98      12.68       621.30
0.  INSTITUTIONAL IMPROVEMENTS.
POLICY IMPLEMENTATION
AND TRAINING:
1.   Technical assistance to DGP              0.75       6.5s       6.26       62.46      45.66        16.85
2.   Technical assistance to INCOFER          6.45       0.09       0.34       37.44       7.49        29.96
3.   Technical assistance to
JARDEVA A INCOP                        6.66       0.12       0.46       49.92       9.98        39.94
4.   Technical assistance to SDM              0.60       6.68       6.43       41.60       6.24        36.36
6.   Technical assistance to GDMT             6.20       0.04       0.16       16.64       3.33        13.31
6.   Study of Puerto Caldera                  6.60       0.10       6.40       41.86       8.32        33.28
7.   Training                                 0.16       6.66       6.15       12.48       6. W        12.48
Sub-total                               3.15       6.97       2.18      262.08      86.91       181.17
E.  BASE COSTS                                   78.43      22.61      55.82    6525.38   1881.46        4643.92
F.  CONTINGENCIES:
1.   Physical                                 7.61       1.98       5.e2      S82.b7    184.61        417.96
2.   Price                                   11.41       3.83       7.58      949.31    318.49        630.82
Sub-total                              18.41       6.81      12.61    1631.88    483.11        1048.77
G.        TOTAL                                  96.e4      28.42      68.42    8067.26   2364.67        6e92.69
az=s=    =s===        ====Z    ==s===   ======= 



- 72 -
ANNEX 10
COSTA RICA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.    Transport Sector Investment Program 1991-1995.
2.    Action Plan for the Maintenance of Cantonal Roads 1990-1995.
3.    Typical Costs of Periodic Road Maintenance.
4.    Study for the Rationalization of Railway Services in Costa Rica -
1988.
5.    Contract-Program for the Rationalization of Railway Services.
6.    INCOP's Financial Performance and Financial Projections.
7.    JAPDEVA's Financial Performance and Financial Projection.
8.    Installation for Cruise Liners on the Pacific Coast.
9.    Estimation of Capacity of Puerto Caldera.
10.    Grain handling in Puerto Caldera.
11.    Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance to Develop a
Transport Plan.
12.    Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance - Pavement
Management.
13.    Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance on Port
Management Accounting.
14.    Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance on Port Pricing
and Costs.
15.    List of Equipment to be Purchased under the Project.



COSTA RICA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Organization Chart
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND TRANSPORT
Mvinster
Vio Minister
T1 _           1
r Gomlral DiroctorattScolrsip
F        d  1u    Control aLn                                               Co[u1nr
Planning    it     Analy%iS           Evakiatbon         IFinanaal              Tran                Plic W
Departnmont        Dpaf |i            Depaittnent         Departrewt          L                        Division
I  _ -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Dnvilopmert      InRoad Mairdenance  E|-u                                                                                                     _
-  Sub D!vtsion                           uSub Dmutna
--         ---  --1-S-------rS_
G.~~nera      Genewal                                   waGeoeral                                                                           G Grnral  enerl Dodorg
Diflidorale        Dired e --1   r-crDrcorat           Drecta           rat                 r  DGrer1oraal                                           01dS t r   ot Equmte
| Central Region  | orrn Region {         t4Sa l                          LAtlantic Rgi       soiAher) Region             _         _ S                     n  f
Field  Dooa,bnent olDCpar-a
L            j"          budd                                           WoAsbDp |4KL]& I
rD.partm..l ol                               e a,ent 01             Depaetmnid ot 
L+uc00} jTC7OI C       Mrnrnmstr ttn  |Wo 5                  l    _      D.hn        |
dne29



COSTA RICA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Organization Chart
PUBLIC WORKS DIVISION
Public Works
Division
Consuotant
Supenrvision
Development                     Department
Subdivrision                                     S
_ CsPProgramming
DepaDrment
General CDirectorate     General Dilrectorate      Goneral D irecorate                             Goneral CDirecktrate
of Roads              of Buildings and            of Port and                                   of Gonstructbon
_   |      __          ~~~~~~Monurnents          River Works
_L~~~Road Desig  Projects           Portworks ~~~~~~~~~~General                        General     |         tandtards and II
Road Deige_Partments                               DePonwrtment          Subdirectorate of       Subdire orate of         SpedlcatMons      _
Department   Depanment            Department  j~        ~ Contract Work        Force Account Worm    |     DCparment    
|   Bndge Design  |  l    Conracts              River Works|
|  Departmont j   |  Dopartment  |             Department                            f            Wrs
|  Right of Way  |         Force Account |           adFn ce                           L               Supervision |
[  Depanment  t   L Department             |Department| |                            I|                 - 
I  I  Costs  I  I  I   Programs I
IPlans and                  Sites and 'rmn 
Programs                    3  ervices  | 
Department                Department                                 II        Wrks      I
'  I  Spervlion   I
rPlans an                                             ')|rvpsmet 
-I Prograrms 
Department  0 
ttb42~



COSTA RICA
TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
Organization Chart
TRANSPORTATION DIVISION
TRANSPORTATION
DIVISION
Legal                         Planning andI
General  irectorae    GeneAldvirecorat                 GeneralmDiretrtnGnrlDietrt
Tschnical   1        { ~Administrative~
Commisshn on _-  _       ad Financial
Transportathn             ~~Advisor
of Technical Studces            of Urban Enginernng                of Civil Aviation                  of Railways
General Directorate             General Directorate              General Directorate             General Directorate
of Road Transport                 o' Traffic Police            of Maritirne Transport              of Road SaXty
Naior l
Commissi on
Mrine Pollution
"sBic Studios        Mantime    §  r p       o and          Techni
D| patmnt          Departnment                                                D      _epwWue
EKMW4USh



84                                                                                               ,?                                                   IBRD 2107i
* > MCVN%C                                                                       44                                                                                                                                              4   q
/  8O O          r                                                                                                                                                                  CCOSTA RICA
18-- -          -                      Q.O@ ChI.s\TRANSPORT SECTOR PROJECT
|   Ms, oC*cr0i-                                          ,                                                                                                                    FIRST YEAR PROGRAM  OF WORKS
\/ X               \ U--I c_   Project Roads
AL,ber,o                                                                                   t\ Paved Roads
CR T                                                                                                                                                                                            sboCCces  / / gazo Aren Other Rooads
>-                          /                     /   M    ~ * _ >>,                                                                                                                           FortqSc / <,CA!tctr sro  p ertc V.e o Railroads
F od& Lft            co  cPorts
S-fo Roscdefft       CoroCB Tilorern  __            <\       I               /                                                                                                                 Cities and Towns
' - ~~~~~~~~~~~~ <'   /   A C  r S@   '  i                                                                                                  s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Province Capitols
®  National Capital
os, :0y: / /                                 \ 88                          ,vces                                                                                          - ---   International Boundories
^:r c   Ncrcn o   *de o      ;      Scr o@s _        j             > A(Elue a              4-bo            to L-ar.OJ
~0,do ? ~.                                                                    -s
cr ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Sc *g,oc o
5CR Morcos
I",  D  Sc . S                                r .
N,  fA,e.oz A
cc~~~~~e
H C NJ t) U R A S                            ,>                                                                                                                          
EL   '                                                                                                                                                                                        P  A   N    A    M   A
NlCARAGuA
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:                                                                                                                                         4c c,S 'cr C,... o
MILES                                                                                                                                                        "   *SC8's5a
I!
4 SO_ Jos*                  I             0              20            40             60                                           'W X'S 5'0 'SS~NS,O0, N.tP
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                                                   as o r 0  Xe,. .,,a W.
|                      \    ~~~~~~~P A N A M A   |IIOEES\5o Tr  v  3,n  
¢8'                                                        {                                                                                    a  X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>8,'"yP. "
._ _ t __ ....... 84' fi2° SEPTEMBER 19;8
SEPTEmBSER 1988



