Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3205 CR
Loan Agreement
(Transport Sector Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 24, 1990
LOAN NUMBER 3205 CR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 24, 1990, between the REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
Parts A, B.l, B.4, B.5 (a), C.l (a), C.l (e) and C.2 of the Project and 
Part B.3 of the Project will be carried out by the Borrower through MOPT and MF (as 
hereinafter defined), respectively;
(C)
Parts B.2, B.5 (b), B.5 (c), B.5 (d), C.l (b), C.l (c) and C.l (d) of the 
Project will be carried out by the Borrower through MOPT with the participation of the 
Executing Agencies (as hereinafter defined) and, in order to make that participation 
possible, the Borrower will make available to the Executing Agencies, in accordance 
with the corresponding Subsidiary Contractual Arrangement (both terms as hereinafter 
defined) part of the proceeds of the Loan as required to carry out such Parts of the 
Project as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms aria conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1 01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985 (the General Conditions), with the last 
sentence of Section 3.02 deleted, constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to 
this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
"Action Plans" means collectively the Cantonal Roads Maintenance Plan, 
the Decentralization Plan and the Port Rationalization Plan and a reference to an 
"Action Plan" is a
reference to any of such plans;
(b)
"Cantonal Roads" means the roads servicing the cantons and not within the 
national road network of the Borrower;
(c)
"Cantonal Roads Maintenance Plan" means the Borrower's 1991-1995 plan of 
action dated March 7, 1990, satisfactory to the Bank, for the rehabilitation and 
maintenance of the Cantonal Roads System, as such plan may be revised from time to 
time as provided for in Section 3.04 (c) (ii) of this Agreement;
(d)
"Central Bank" means Banco Central de Costa Rica, the Borrower's Central 
Bank;
(e)
"Colon" and "Colones" mean the currency of the Borrower; 
 
(f)
"Contract-Program" means the 1990-1993 plan of action entered into on 
March 9, 1990 between the MF, MP, MOPT and INCOFER to rationalize railway operations 
and which covers the
operational, financial and labor redundancy targets for the 1990-1993 period;
(g)
"Coordination Group" means the coordinating group to be established 
within the MOPT in accordance with Section 3.10 of this Agreement;
(h)
"Decentralization Plan" means the action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, 
for decentralization of the Cantonal Roads' maintenance furnished to the Bank by 
letter dated March 23,
1990, as such plan may be revised from time to time as provided for in Section 3.04 
(c)(ii) of this Agreement;
(i)
"Executing Agencies" means INCOP, JAPDEVA, and INCOFER and such other 
agency or agencies as may be approved by the Bank from time to time; and "Executing 
Agency" means any one of such Executing Agencies;
(j)
"GDP" means Direccion General de Planificacion, MOPT's General 
Directorate of Planning;
(k)
"GDTM" means Direccion General de Transporte Maritimo, MOPT's General 
Directorate of Maritime Transport;
(l)
"IMP" means the Borrower's five-year transport sector investment and 
maintenance program for the period 1991 through 1995 furnished to the Bank on March 7, 
1990, as such program shall be revised in each year for the immediately succeeding 
five year period as provided for in Section 3.04 (c) (ii) of this Agreement;
(m)
"Implementation Committee" means the committee established under the 
Contract-Program for the supervision, implementation, monitoring and revision of the 
Contract-Program;
Page  3
(n)
"INCOFER" means Instituto Costarricense de Ferrocarriles, the Borrower's 
Railway Authority;
(o)
"IN COP" means Instituto Costarricense de Puertos del Pacifico, the 
Borrower's Pacific Port Authority;
(p)
"JAPDEVA" means Junta Administrativa Portuaria y de Desarrollo Economico 
de la Vertiente Atlantica, the Borrower's Atlantic Port Authority;
(q)
"MF" means Ministerio de Hacienda, the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
 
(r)
"MOPT" means Ministerio de Obras Publicas y Transportes the Borrower's 
Ministry of Public Works and Transport;
(s)
"Municipality" means each of the municipalities of the Republic of Costa 
Rica;
(t)
"MP" means Ministerio de Planificacion y Politica Economica, the 
Borrower's Ministry of Planning;
(u)
"Port Rationalization Plan" means the action plan, satisfactory to the 
Bank, for the rationalization of port operations furnished to the Bank by the letter 
from the Minister of
MOPT dated April 6, 1990, as such plan may be revised from time to time as provided 
for in Section 3.04 (c)(ii) of this Agreement;
(v)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3/03 (a) of 
this Agreement;
(w)
"Program" means the Action Plans, IMP and the Contract setting forth the 
program of actions, objectives and of the Borrower for its transport sector;
(x)
"SDE" means Sub-division de Equipo, the Sub-Division of within MOPT's 
Division of Public Works;
(y)
"SDM" means Sub-Division de Mantenimiento, the Sub of Maintenance within 
MOPT's Division of Public Works; 
(z)
"Subsidiary Contractual Arrangement" means any of the arrangements to be 
entered into between the Borrower and the Executing Agencies pursuant to Section 3.01 
(b) of this Agreement; and
(aa)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to sixty million dollars ($60,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in the Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Page  4
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July l, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 
the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated 
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank shall 
notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 
such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on June 1 
and December 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Minister of the MOPT is designated as the representative of 
the Borrower for purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under 
the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III
Page  5
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through the MOPT, except for Part B of the Project which shall be 
carried out through MF, and also with the participation of the Executing Agencies as 
set forth in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, all with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and 
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall make the part of the proceeds of the Loan required to carry out the 
applicable Part of the Project pursuant to the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
available to the corresponding Executing Agency (in each case in an amount or amounts 
satisfactory to the Bank), under arrangements (the Subsidiary Contractual 
Arrangements) satisfactory to the Bank which shall include, inter alia:
(i)
the obligation of each Executing Agency to carry out the relevant 
Part or 
Parts of the Project in accordance with the 
applicable terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement including, 
without limitation, those in respect of 
appropriate accounting 
practices, reporting, and procurement procedures; and 
(ii)
the obligation of each Executing Agency to carry out its 
corresponding 
activities under the Program.
 
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Contractual 
Arrangements in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Bank, and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Subsidiary Contractual Arrangements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a)
for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain, with Borrower's 
counterpart funds and throughout the duration of the Project, an account in Colones in 
a commercial bank (the "Project Account") acceptable to the Bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
make payments out of the Project Account exclusively for expenditures 
required for the Project;
(c)
deposit into the Project Account:
 
(i)
an initial deposit in Colones equivalent to $1,200,000;
 
(ii)
at quarterly intervals in each year, beginning the quarter 
following the 
establishment of the Project Account, an 
amount equal to the aggregate of 
payments made during the previous 
quarter for expenditures made under the 
Project not financed 
from the Loan; and
(iii)
any additional amounts necessary to maintain a minimum balance in 
such account 
of the equivalent in Colones of $1,200,000 or such other 
amount as is 
acceptable to the Bank, until the Closing Date.
 
Section 3.04. (a) Without limitation upon its obligations under Sections 9.06 
and 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall, no later than June 30 in each 
year of the execution of the Project, furnish to the Bank for its review and comments 
a report in such detail, of such scope and based on such economic and technical 
criteria, as the Bank shall reasonably request on the execution of the Project, 
Page  6
including:
(i)
an evaluation of progress achieved in the implementation of the 
Program during 
such year; and
 
(ii)
a draft Project work program to be carried out by the Borrower and 
each of the 
Executing Agencies during the following year, including:
 
(A)
a statement of objectives to be achieved and of activities 
to be 
undertaken;
 
(B)
detailed investment and operating budgets;
 
(C)
a financing plan indicating the source of funds for each 
activity or 
plan;
 
(D)
a procurement program detailing goods and services to be 
procured;
(E)
detailed staffing, training and other technical assistance 
plans; and
(F)
an environmental impact analysis, by MOPT and under terms 
and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, in respect of 
each work to be 
included in the corresponding work 
program required pursuant to 
paragraph (c) below.
 
(b)
Without limitations upon their respective rights and obligations under 
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, after receipt of the report referred to in 
paragraph (a) above the Borrower and the Bank shall, exchange views on: (i) the 
progress achieved in carrying out the Project and the implementation of the Program, 
and (ii) the Project work program for the following year.
(c)
No later than November 30 of each year, the Borrower shall: (i) furnish 
to the Bank a finalized Project work program, satisfactory to the Bank, for the 
following year including,
without limitation, the details set out in subparagraph (ii)of paragraph (a) of this 
Section; and (ii) make such revisions to the Program as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested during or following the exchange of views referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section.
(d)
Without limitations upon their respective rights and obligations under 
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, and in addition to the review referred to in 
paragraph (b) above, when the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the 
Loan Account shall have reached the equivalent of fifty percent (50%) of the Loan 
amount, the Borrower and the Bank shall exchange views on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Project and implementing the Program.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken, all action and 
measures to ensure that the project is carried out in accordance with sound 
archaeological practices in respect of its cultural property which includes, inter 
alia, sites, structures, and remains of archaeological, historical, religious, 
cultural or aesthetic value.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, without limitation or restriction upon its 
reporting requirements under Sections 9.06 and 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
Section 3.04 of this Agreement, inform the Bank at all times of its policies and 
criteria to be followed in respect of the IMP, and, inter alia, shall ensure that no 
investment shall be included in the IMP which shall not have an adequate justification 
determined in accordance with a method and assumptions satisfactory to the Borrower 
and the Bank.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than June 30, 1993, furnish to the Bank a plan of action, 
satisfactory to the Bank, to implement the recommendations, taking into account the 
Bank's comments thereon, of the study referred to in Part C.l (a) (ii) of the Project; 
Page  7
and
(b)
carry out such plan of action in a manner and according to a timetable 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (a) cause all its roads to be adequately 
maintained and cause all necessary repairs thereof to be made, all in accordance with 
appropriate engineering and
management practices; (b) cause all equipment for road maintenance and workshops to be 
adequately maintained and cause all necessary repairs and renewals thereof to be made, 
all in accordance with
appropriate engineering and management practices; (c) take all action necessary: (i) 
to increase the use of contractors in the periodic maintenance of its national road 
network with the objective
of increasing the annual participation of contractors in such works to at least 65% of 
the aggregate value of the expenditures related to such periodic maintenance by 
December 31, 1992; and (ii) continue to employ contractors in the construction and 
rehabilitation of any of its national road network so constructed or rehabilitated; 
and (d) make available, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the above purposes.
Section 3.09. The Implementation Committee, in accordance with its obligations 
under the Contract-Program, shall perform, in each year, the following functions:
(i)
follow-up the implementation of the Contract-Program through the 
analysis of 
INCOFER's quarterly and annual reports;
 
(ii)
propose changes to the Contract-Program to update its yearly 
objectives; and
(iii)
prepare, within 30 days of the reception of INCOFER's Annual 
Report, a Report 
to the Borrower on compliance to such date with the 
Contract-Program's 
objectives, the reasons for any non-compliance 
with the Contract-Program and 
the recommendations for the future 
implementation of the Contract-Program.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall (i) establish within the MOPT a coordination 
group (the "Coordination Group") satisfactory to the Bank, comprising amongst others, 
a Project coordinator, two civil engineers and other staff (including support staff) 
with job specifications, qualifications and in numbers, satisfactory to the Bank and 
(ii) thereafter maintain the Coordination Group for purposes of coordinating the 
activities related to the carrying out of the protect throughout the duration of the 
Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause each Executing Agency to 
maintain, separate records and accounts, adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures (including the 
Special Account and the Project Account) in respect of the Project. 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account and the Project 
Account, for each of 
its fiscal years audited in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than five 
months after the end of each such fiscal year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the said 
Page  8
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause each Executing Agency to maintain, in 
accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and 
accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, or cause each Executing Agency to retain, until at least 
one year 
after the Bank has received the audit report for the 
fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable, or cause each Executing Agency to enable, the Bank's 
representatives 
to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure, or cause each Executing Agency to ensure, that such 
records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by the 
said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved 
in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause each Executing Agency, where appropriate:
(a)
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other 
provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice;
(b)
to carry on their operations and conduct their affairs in accordance with 
sound administrative, financial, engineering and all other appropriate practices under 
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers; and
(c)
at all times to operate and to maintain their plants, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all 
necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and all other appropriate 
practices.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any of the Action Plans or the Contract-Program or the IMP shall have 
been amended, modified, abrogated or suspended without the prior consent of the Bank;
(b)
the Borrower, or any other authority having jurisdiction, shall have 
taken any action for the dissolution, disestablishment or suspension of the operations 
of any Executing
Agency;
(c)
any party to any Subsidiary Contractual Arrangement shall have failed to 
perform any obligation under the relevant Subsidiary Contractual Arrangement;
(d)
INCOFER shall have failed to comply with any of its Obligations under the 
Page  9
Contract-Program as the same shall be modified from time to time; and
(e)
the Borrower shall have failed to implement the Program or any part 
thereof.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any of the events specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (e) of Section 
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(b)
any of the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 6.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
that each of the Special Account and the Project Account has been opened 
and, in respect of the Project Account, that the initial deposit referred to in 
subparagraph (i) of paragraph (c) of Section 3.03 of this Agreement has been made;
(b)
that the Contract-Program to restructure INCOFER's services is being 
carried out in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)
that an Implementation Committee has been appointed, satisfactory to the 
Bank, to monitor compliance with the Contract Program;
(d)
that the Subsidiary Contractual Arrangements with each of INCOP, JAPDEVA 
and INCOFER have been entered into and are satisfactory to the Bank; and
(e)
that the Coordination Group has been established in a manner satisfactory 
to the Bank.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that:
(a)
the Project Account and the Special Account have been duly opened, and 
all necessary acts, consents and approvals, to be performed or obtained for the same, 
have been performed or
obtained, in accordance with the financial laws and regulations of the Borrowers; and
(b)
the Subsidiary Contractual Arrangements referred to in Section 7.01 (d) 
of this Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered 
on behalf of, each relevant Executing Agency and the Borrower in each case, and that 
each such Subsidiary Contractual Arrangement is legally valid and binding upon the 
relevant Executing Agency and the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date November 26, 1990 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
Page  10
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 5016-1000
San Jose
Costa Rica
Telex:
2277 MIN HAC
Facsimile:
(506)338-267
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
197688 (TRT)
248423 (RCA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
hereinabove written.
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
By /s/ Guillermo Madriz de Mezerville
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category.
Page  11
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil Works under
    Part A of the
    Project
    (a)  Rehabilita-          18,300,000        56%
         tion of
         roads under
         Part A.l of
         the Project
    (b)  Construction          3,600,000        56%
         of a new
         jetty at
         Puntarenas
         (Part A.3
         of the
         Project)
    (c)  Periodic             13,300,000        72%, until
         main-                                  drawal applica-
         tenance                                tions under this
         under                                  Category (the
         Part A.2 (a)                           Applications) have
         of the Project                         reached the aggre-
                                                gate of $4,500,000
                                                thereafter 66%,
                                                until the Applica-
                                                tions have reached
                                                the aggregate of
                                                $9,000,000; and
                                                40% thereafter
(2) Equipment under
    Part B of the
    Project:
    (a)  Equipment,            5,000,000        100%
         vehicles,
         and spare
         parts under
         Part B.l
    (b)  Grain hand-             600,000        100%
         ling equip-
         ment under
         Part B.2
         of the
         Project
    (c)  Equipment,            2,000,000        100%
         vehicles
         and spare
         parts under
         Parts B.3,
         B.4 and B.5
         of the Project
(3) Technical Assistance
    under Part C of
    the Project
    (a)  Design, engineer-     3,800,000        100%
Page  12
         ing, environ-
         ment impact
         analysis
         and super-
         vision of
         civil works
         under Part A
         of the
         Project
     (b) Assistance,            3,150,000        100%
         training
         and studies
         under
         Part C of
         the Project
(4)  Unallocated              10,250,000
          TOTAL               60,000,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to:
(a)
support the Borrower's efforts to promote exports through, as part of the 
IMP, improving the quality and reliability of transport services in the Atlantic and 
Pacific corridors linking the Borrower's ports to its major cities;
(b)
improve the efficiency of the use of the Borrower's resources by 
strengthening transport sector management; and
(c)
to  rationalize the provision of port and railway services.
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Civil Works
 
1.
Rehabilitation and upgrading of about 458 kilometers of paved main roads, and 
feeder roads thereto, in the Borrower's national road network;
2.
Periodic maintenance of about 878 kilometers of paved roads in the Borrower's 
federal road network;
3.
Construction of a new one-berth jetty at  the port of Puntarenas; and
 
4.
Carrying out of detailed design and engineering on, and environmental impact 
analysis and supervision of, the civil works described in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 above.
Part B:
Equipment and Spare Parts
 
1.
Acquisition and utilization by MOPT of vehicles, equipment and spare parts there 
for to maintain the Borrower's national road network.
2.
Acquisition and utilization by INCOP of equipment and spare parts there for 
required to improve grain handling at the port of Caldera.
3.
Acquisition and utilization by MF of communications equipment and spare parts 
Page  13
there for,  to assist in the improvement of in transit cargo control.
4.
Acquisition and utilization by MOPT of vehicles and equipment to improve MOPT's 
laboratory testing of road material and road traffic safety.
5.
Acquisition and utilization of equipment (including equipment for 
data-processing) in (a) MOPT, (b) INCOP, (c) JAPDEVA and (d) INCOFER.
Part C:
Institutional Development, Technical Assistance and Studies
 
1.
Provision of technical assistance to, and training of staff of the following:
 
(a)
MOPT, aiming at:
 
(i)
improving DGP's expertise in the programming of its road 
investment projects 
and in the preparation and evaluation of such 
projects;
(ii)
developing, under criteria satisfactory to the Borrower and the 
Bank, a 
transport plan including, without limitation, a study 
on MOPT's organization 
and measures to strengthen management in the 
transport sector;
(iii)
enhancing SDM's pavement management and SDE's road maintenance 
capabilities; and
 
(iv)
improving DGTM's expertise in the setting, enforcement and 
collection of 
maritime freight charges and tariffs.
 
(b)
INCOP, in order to improve its tariff evaluation and costing policies and 
the implementation thereof.
(c)
JAPDEVA, in order to improve its information management capability and 
implement such improved management information system.
(d)
INCOFER, in order to rationalize the provision of its railway services.
 
(e)
MOPT, JAPDEVA and INCOP to improve mid-level management.
 
2.
Carrying out a study to evaluate, and propose measures to correct, the siltation 
problem in the Port of Caldera.
*    *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Borrower's Ministries directly responsible on behalf of the Borrower for the 
carrying out of the different Parts of the Project, and Executing Agencies 
participating therein pursuant to Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement
Part A                                    MOPT
Part B.1                                  MOPT
Part B.2                                  INCOP
Part B.3                                  MF
Part B.4                                  MOPT
Part B.5 (a)                              MOPT
Part B.5 (b)                              INCOP
Part B.5 (c)                              JAPDEVA
Part B.5 (d)                              INCOFER
Part C.1 (a)                              MOPT
Part C.1 (b)                              INCOP
Part C.2 (c)                              JAPDEVA
Part C.1 (d)                              INCOFER
Part C.1 (e)                              MOPT
Part C.2                                  MOPT
Page  14
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning December 1, 1995
through June 1, 2007
2,500,000
 
