Page  1
August 2, 1996
His Excellency
Dr. Francisco de Paula Gutierrez
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Edificio Rofas, Av. Central y 1
Calle 16
San Jose, Costa Rica
Re:
Loan 3205-CR
Transport Sector Project
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
We refer to the Loan Agreement dated August 24, 1990 (the Loan Agreement) for 
the above-referenced Loan between the Republic of Costa Rica (the Borrower) and the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank).
Based on the request by your government, and the subsequent discussions between 
representatives of your government and the Bank, we are pleased to notify you that the 
Bank agrees to amend the Loan Agreement to reflect the changes in Project activities 
and allocation of Loan proceeds resulting from the cancellation of $12,000,000 from 
the Loan amount.
Therefore, we proposed the following amendments to the Loan Agreement:
I.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement is deleted and 
substituted by Attachment 1 to this letter entitled "Schedule 1" and incorporating a 
new table.
II.
Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement is deleted and substituted by Attachment 2 to 
this letter entitled "Schedule 2" and reflecting changes in Parts A.3 (a), A.4, B.2 
and C.3 of the Project.
If you agree with the proposed amendments, please sign the form of confirmation 
below. Please note that this amendment shall not come into full force and effect until 
the Bank has received:
(a)
evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, showing that the Subsidiary 
Contractual Arrangements (as the term is defined in the Loan Agreement) between the 
Republic of Costa Rica on one side, and each of INCOP, JAPDEVA and INCOFER 
respectively have been amended, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, to reflect the 
relevant reallocation of loan proceeds set forth in this letter and that such 
amendments have been duly authorized and ratified, and executed by the respective 
parties thereto and are legally binding upon such parties in accordance with their 
respective terms;
(b)
(i) a program, satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of the 
implementation of Part A.2 of the Project; and (ii) evidence, satisfactory to the 
Bank, that the counterpart funds for financing the first year of the above program 
have been allocated and are available to MOPT; and
(c)
one duly executed original of this letter. 
 
The amendments set forth in this letter shall come into effect on the date upon 
which the Bank dispatches to the Borrower notice that the conditions mentioned in the 
above paragraph have been fulfilled. Because of their interest in this matter we are 
sending a copy of this letter to the Ministerio de Obras Publicas y Transportes and 
the Ministerio de Planificacion Nacional y Politica Economica de Costa Rica.
Sincerely,
Page  2
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Director
Central America Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
By /s/ Francisco de Paula Gutierrez
Authorized Representative
Date:
August 29, 1996
 
cc.:
Dr. Leonardo Garnier, Ministerio de Planificacion Nacional y Politica Economica 
Ing. Rodolfo  Silva, Ministerio de Obras Publicas y Transporte
 
Schedule 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated             % of
                           (expressed in          Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works under
     Part A of the
     Project:
     (a)  Rehabilitation      16,754,200          56% until an
          of roads under                          aggregate amount of
          Part A.1 of                             US$3,444,200 has
          the Project                             been disbursed and
                                                  50% thereafter
     (b)  Emergency            8,495,500          80%
          works under
          Part A.3 of
          the Project
     (c)  Periodic             2,367,200          72%
          maintenance
          under Part
          A.2 (a) of
          the Project
     (d)  Civil works          3,500,000          50%
          under Part
          A.4 of the
          Project
(2)  Goods under Part B
     of the Project
Page  3
     (a)  Equipment,           1,584,400          100%
          vehicles and
          spare parts
          under Part B.1
          of the Project
     (b)  Equipment,           2,723,800          100%
          vehicles and
          spare parts
          under Part
          B.2 of the
          Project
     (c)  Equipment,           2,704,500          100%
          vehicles and
          spare parts
          under Parts
          B.3, B.4 and
          B.5 of the
          Project
(3)  Technical Assistance
     (a)  Design,             3,106,000           100%
          engineering,
          environment
          impact
          analysis and
          supervision
          of civil works
          under Part A
          of the Project
     (b)  Technical          5,217,900            100%
          assistance,
          training and
          studies under
          Part C of the
          Project
     Unallocated             1,546,500
     Subtotal               48,000,000
     Cancelled amount
     as of April 26, 1995   12,000,000
                            __________
     TOTAL                  60,000,000
                            ==========
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to:
(a)
support the Borrower's efforts to promote exports through, as part of the 
IMP, improving the quality and reliability of transport services in the Atlantic and 
Pacific corridors linking the Borrower's ports to its major cities;
(b)
improve the efficiency of the use of the Borrower's resources by 
strengthening transport sector management; and 
(c)
to rationalize the provision of port and railway services.
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
Page  4
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Civil Works
 
1.
Rehabilitation and upgrading of about 205 kilometers of paved main roads, and 
feeder roads thereto, in the Borrower's national road network.
2.
Periodic maintenance of about 600 kilometers of paved roads in the Borrower's 
federal road network.
3.
(a)  Reconstruction of roads and bridges and rehabilitation of rail lines; and 
(b) Dredging in the ports of Limon and Moin and rehabilitation of the port 
installation damaged by the earthquake of April 22, 1991.
4.
(a)  Construction of a roll-on roll-off ramp at the Port of Limon; and (b) 
construction of  stations for the control of the weight of vehicles using the 
Borrower's national road network.
5.
Carrying out of detailed design and engineering on, and environmental impact 
analysis and supervision of, the civil works described in paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4 
above.
Part B:
Equipment and Spare Parts
 
1.
Acquisition and utilization by MOPT of vehicles, equipment and spare parts 
therefor to maintain the Borrower's national road network.
2.
Acquisition and utilization by  INCOFER of equipment and spare parts therefor 
required to restore railway operations within the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Acquisition and utilization by MF of communications equipment and spare parts 
therefor, to assist in the improvement of in-transit cargo control.
4.
Acquisition and utilization by MOPT of vehicles and equipment to improve MOPT's 
laboratory testing of road material and road traffic safety.
5.
Acquisition and utilization of equipment (including equipment for 
data-processing and truck axle weight equipment) in: (a) MOPT; and (b) INCOFER.
Part C:
Institutional Development, Technical Assistance and Studies
 
1.
Provision of technical assistance to, and training of staff of the following:
 
(a)
MOPT, aiming at:
 
(i)
improving DGP's expertise in the programming of its road 
investment projects 
and in the preparation and evaluation of such 
projects;
(ii)
developing, under criteria satisfactory to the Borrower and the 
Bank, a 
transport plan including, without limitation, a study 
on MOPT's organization 
and measures to strengthen management in the 
transport sector;
(iii)
enhancing MOPT's pavement management and road maintenance 
capabilities;
(iv)
supporting the implementation of the Borrower's Law of Concession 
of public 
works, Ley de Concesion de Obras Publicas.
 
(b)
INCOFER, in order to rationalize the provision of its railway services.
 
2.
Carrying out a study to evaluate, and propose measures to correct, the siltation 
problem in the Port of Caldera and developing a plan for the future expansion of the 
port.
Page  5
3.
Provision of technical assistance to support the Coordination Group.
 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Borrower's Ministries directly responsible on behalf of the Borrower for the 
carrying out of the different Parts of the Project, and Executing Agencies 
participating therein pursuant to Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement.
Part A                               MOPT
Part B.1                             MOPT
Part B.2                             INCOFER
Part B.3                             MF
Part B.4                             MOPT
Part B.5 (a)                         MOPT
Part B.5 (b)                         INCOP
Part B.5 (c)                         JAPDEVA
Part B.5 (d)                         INCOFER
Part C.1 (a)                         MOPT
Part C.1 (b)                         INCOP
Part C.1 (c)                         JAPDEVA
Part C.1 (d)                         INCOFER
Part C.1 (e)                         MOPT
Part C.2                             MOPT
Part C.3                             MOPT
