Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9487
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITANIA
GUELBS IRON ORE PROJECT
(LOAN 1747-MAU)
AND
SNIM REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2643-MAU)
APRIL 19, 1991
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Sahel Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has , restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
1979        1985         June-1990
Current Unit                               Ouguiya (UM)
US$1.00                        UM 45.85    UM 77.07      UM 81.61
UM 1                           US$0.022    US$0.013      US$0.012
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES EQUIVALENTS
1 kilogram (kg)                      2.205 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (mt)              =     2,205 pounds (lb)
1 meter (m)                          3.281 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)             =     33. 315 cubic feet (ft3)
1 kilometer (km)                     0.A2 mile (mi)
1 squaie kilometer (km2)       =     0.386 square mile (sq mi)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB               African Development Bank
AFESD             Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
AISI        =     American Iron and Steel Institute
A.RMICO           Arab Mining Company
BCM         =     Banque Centrale de Mauritanie
BRGM        =     Bureau des Recherches G6ologiques et Minieres
BRPM              Bureau de Recherches et de Participations Minieres
CCCE        =     Caisse Centrale de Coop6ration Economique
COMINOR     =     Complexe Minier du Nord
CVRD        =     Companhia Vale de Rio Doce
DCPP              Departement de Commercialisation des Produit Petroliers
EEC         =     European Economic Community
EIB         =     European Investment Bank
FCB         =     Five Cail Babcock
FED         =     Fonds Europ6en de Developpement
IISI              International Iron and Steel Institute
IRSID             Institut de Recherche de la Siderurgie
KFAED       e     Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
KFTCIC      =     Kuwait Foreign Trading, Constructing and Investment Co.
MIFERMA     -     Mines de Fer de Mauritanie
MSI         =     Mineral Services Incorporated
OECF        =     Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
OPEC        =     Organization of Oil Producing Exporting Countries
SAFA        -     Soci6te Arabe du Fer et de l'Acier
SNIM              Societe Nationale Industrielle et Miniere
SNIMEX            SNIM Explosif
SOCOMINE    =     Societe de Cooperation Miniere et Industrielle
SOFREMINES  =     Soci6te Francaise d'Etudes Minieres
SOFRESID    -     Societe Francaise d'Etudes de la Sid6rurgie
SOMINA      =     Societ6 des Mines de Mauritanie
SONADER     =     Societe Nationale pour le Developpement Rural
SGTE        -     Societe Generale de Techniques et d'Etudes
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



7* WOIIID #A04K..      ...            . FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
wao"qfa O.OC. 20433
U.S A
Otfice ot Dinctov-0ael
April 19, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Mauritania
Guelbs Iron Ore Project (Loan 1747-MAU) and
SNIM Rehabilitation Project (Loan 261,3-MA=
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Mauritania - Guelbs Iron Ore Project (Loan 1747-MAU) and
SNTM Rehabilitation Project (Loan 2643 -MAU)," prepared by the Industry and Energy
Operations Division of the Sahel Department in Africa Regional Office. No audit
of this project has been made by the Operation. Evaluation Department at this
time.
Attachment
Thui  iaonden t ba G Isawed disfbutio and may b tie by nac"s only in ao t hegN    _
Of *0ei O0ca dumL is eso.ts may not othwu be dsimd wout WrM Dauk a.



FOR OMCIAL USR ONLY
PRO-JECT COK4PLETIOM REPORT
MAUR1ITIA
GUELBS IRON ORE PROJECT (Loan 1147-MAUM
and
SNIK REHABILITATIO  PJECT, (LoaU 2643-MAU)
Table of Contents
Pate K2.
Preface     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  i
Evaluation Summary        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             ii
PART I:      PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERS?ICTIVE
1.   Project Identity        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2.   Background       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
3.   Project Objectives and Description            . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
4.    Prcject Design and Organization    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
5.   Project Implementation         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
6.   Project Results    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
7.   Project Sustainability          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
8.    Bank Performance       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
9.   Borrower Performance         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
10.   Project Relationship         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
11.    Consulting Services    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
12.    Project Documentation and Data          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
PART II:    PROJECT REVIEW FROH BOR&ERI  S PERSEECTIVE
A.   Loan Conditions    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
B.    Project Implementation         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
C.    Start-Up Problems    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
D.    SNIM's Scorecard       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
E.   Conclusion       .............                 ....      ....     ....          .   17
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFOMATIO
Table 1:  Related Bank Loans          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
Table 2:  Project Timetable    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
Table 3:  Loan Disbursements          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
Table 4:  Project Implementation          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
Table 5:  Project Costs and Financing    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
Table 6:  Project Results    . . . . . I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
Table 7:  Status of Covenants    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I . . . .  26
Table 8:  Use of BankResources  . ................. .  27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfom anct |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wofld Bank authorization.|



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITANIA
GUELBS IRON ORE PROJECT (Ln. 1747-MAU)
SNIM REHABILITATION PROJECT (Ln. 2643-MAU)
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Guelbs Iron Ore
Project and the subsequent SNIM Rehabilitation Project in the Islamic Republic
of Mauritania. While the Guelbs Iron Ore Project created a large new mining
operation, the SNIM Rehabilitation Pr ject aimed at restoring financial and
economic viability of the Borrower in a changed epr~ironment and thus
protecting the large investment made. Loan 1747-MAU (US$60.0 million for the
Guelbs Iron Ore Project) was approved on July 12, 1979, and Loan 2643-MAU
(US$20.0 million for the SNIM Rehabilitation Project) on December 17, 1985.
isoth loans are closed and fully disbursed. Although technical problems of the
Guelbs beneficiation plant are not yet resolved and plant modifications are
under way, it has been attempted to draw conclusions from the operational
results obtained so far.
The PCR was prepared by the Industry and Energy Division of the Sahel
Department in the Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I
and III). On May 8, 1990, the Bank sent the Borrower Parts I and III with the
request to prepare Part II and submit their comments on our Parts I and III by
June 1st., but no comments were received. Co-financiers' comments have been
considered for preparation of Part I.
Preparation of the PCR was started during the Bank's appraisal mission
for the Public Enterprise Sector Structural Adjustment Program in January
1990, and is based, inter alia, on the staff appraisal reports, the Borrower's
records on implementation and costs, legal documents, supervision reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and other internal Bank
documentation.



- Li -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITANIA
GUELBS IRON ORE PROJECT (Ln. 1747-MAU)
SNIM REHABILITATION PROJECT (Ln. 2643-MAU)
Evaluation Summary
Objectives
The main objectives of the Guelbo Iron Ore Project were to allow
Mauritania's iron ore mining company Societe Nationale Industrielle et Miniere
(SNIM) to switch exploitation from its depleting high grade iron ore reserves
to large low grade reserves and thus to allow continuation of the Company's
operations and their dominant contribution to the national economy. The main
objectives of the subsequent SNIM Rehabilitation Project were to achieve cost
reductions which, after substantial change in external factors and lower than
expected results of the Guelbo project, had become necessary to restore the
Company's financial and economic viability and to protect the large investment
made in the Guelbs project.
Implewntation Experience
Construction was mainly completed in October 1984, 20 months behind
appraisal estimate. Installed cost, at US$ 372.6 million, were 15Z lower than
appraisal estimate. Start-up of production has been unusually long and
difficult. Presently, the Project's output has reached only 402 of design
capacity. The subsequent SNIM Rehabilitation Project, appraised in :,85, was
completed December 1988, within budget.
Results
The project objectlves have only partly been achieved. Whlle
construction of the Guelbs Project, although late, was completed within
budget, the intended full switching from exploitation of high grade ore to low
grade ore could not be made, due to protracted start-up difficulties. However,
due to discovery of additional high grade iron ore reserves, the transfer to
exploitation of low grade ore lost its previous urgency. Low iron ore prices
and severe technical problems reduced the financial rate of return of the
Project from 5Z, as estimated at appraisal, to -102, as presently re-
estimated. The negative rate of return and the high debt burden engaged with
the Project brought the Company into severe financial difficulties. Although
the subsequent SNIM Rehabilitation Project achieved the intended cost
reductions, these were insufficient to restore the financial viability of the
company due to unexpected further decline of iron ore prices and changes in
exchange rates. Today, the Company is still in an unsustainable financial
situation.



- iii -
To respond to its difficult financial situation, the Company achieved
remarkable improvements in management, productior. costs and operations. This,
together with the fortunate discovery of additional high grade ore, turned the
Compa:ty's outlook positive, despite the poor Guelbs investment. Although the
Project's role has been reduced and an acceptabls rate of return on this
investment cannot be expected in the near future, there are substantial
benefits if the investment is regarded a sunk cost: the additional production
gained from the Project will give SNIM more flexibility and security in a
highly competitive market and considerably improve the Company's chances to
remain over the next 15 to 20 years one of the world's large and viable iron
ore producers.
Sustainability
Over the last five years, SNIM demonstrated impressive sustained
performance, which led to a record production in 1989, despite the handicaDs
of the Guelbs Project. The Company formulated an appropriate action plan to
bring the Project to an acceptable rate of production, and is now well on
track with its implementation. The cash break-even point of the Project's
operation has been reached and there is a high probability that production
will be substantially increased and maintained well above the present level.
Findings and Le@Qons Learned
Despite careful and professional project preparation and execution,
assisted by a committee of renown experts and technical assistance from
qualified firas and individuals, the Project suffered from serious technical
flaws and overestimation of physical results of the Guelbs plant's operation.
This is one of the inherent risks of mining projects throughout the world, in
particular if a metallurgical process and plant with prototype features is
involved, as it was the case here. In retrospect, with the experience gained,
one certainly would have made a different investment decision and designed the
project differently, but this was not known at appraisal.
However, the Project also gives an example that management
determination, personnel motivation and government cooperation can bring a
company out of crisis despite adverse external factors and the burden of an
ill-conceived major investment.



PROJECT COHPLETION REPORT
GUELBS 1RON ORE PROJECT (LD. 14-HALMi
SNIM REHABILITATION PROJECT (Ln. 2643-MAIl
PART I: PROJECT REVIEH FROM BANXS  ESPCTV
1. Project Identity
Name           .Guelbs Iron Ore Project
Loan Number       1747-MAUI & 2643-MAU
RVP Unit          Africa Region
Country           Mauritania
Sector            Mining
2. Dackground
2.01 Iron ore mining is a mainstay of Mauritania's economy. Exploitation of
iron ore dates back to 1963, when Mines de Fer de Mauritanie (MIFERMA), with
French, British, German and Italian interests, commenced operations. The Bank
participated in the financing of MIFERMA with a loan of US$ 66.0 million2. The
Company was nationalized in 1974 and renamed to Societe Nationale Industrielle
et Miniere (SNIM). Production capacity has increased from 6 million tons per
year, initially, to 12 million tons per year, at present. The Company is the
country's largest single foreign exchange earner, and technically and
financially has been a success over most of its history. In the second half of
the 1970s, there was a strong belief that the Company's high grade iron ore
reserves would soon be depleted and operations would 'iave to stop if abundant
low grade ore reserves could not be developed. The Guelbs Iron Ore Project,
already conceived by MIFERHA engineers earlier, was prepared at this time with
high priority3. The Bank participated in financing the Project with a loan of
US$ 60.0 million (Loan 1747-MAU, of December 14, 1979), together with 11
multilateral, bilateral and commercial co-lenders4. Due to lower than
anticipated iron ore prices and unusual technizal difficulties of the Project,
the Company had to engage into considerable cost cutting measures after
construction of the Guelbs Project in order to meet its steeply increased debt
service obligations. To facilitate restoration of financial viability, the
SNIM Rehabilitation Project was conceived in 1984. The Bank participated in
financing with an additional loan of US$ 20.0 million (Loan 2643-MAU, of
2 Loan 249-PR, of March 17, 1960. The loan has been fully repaid.
3 The Project is nomad after the Gualbs El Rhuin low grade iLon ore deposit, located near the
Company's high grade iron ore op.rations.
4 Saudi Fund for Development, Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, Arab Fund for Economic and
Social Development, Abu Dhabt Fund, Overseas Economic Cooperattcn Fund, Japan, African Development Bank,
OPEC Fund for International Development, Caisse Centrale de Cooper^tion Economiqum, Banque de Paris et des
Pays-Das, Banque Francalse du Commerce Exteriour, European Investmmnt Bank.



-2-
January 27, 1986). Based on this loan, several co-lenders and the European
Economic Community provided additional financing, under concessionary terms,
of a cotal amount of about US$ 70 million for replacement and productivity-
increasing investments5.
3. trojeot Objectives and Description
3.01 Project Objectives. The main objectives of the Guelbs Iron Ore Project
were to allow SNIH to switch exploitation from its depleting high grade iron
ore reserves to the large low grade Guelbs reserves and thus to continue the
Company's dominant contribution to the national economy. The main objectives
of the subsequent _.JIH Rehabilitation Project were to achieve cost reductions
v'nich, after substantial decline of iron ore prices and lower than expected
results of the Guelbs project, had become necessary to restore the Company's
financial and economic viability aad to protect the large investment made in
the Guelbs project.
3.02 Project Desgription. The Guelbs Project consists of an open-pit mine
ivith a capacity of 14 million tons per year of low grade ore, a beneficiation
plant based on dry grinding and magnetic separation to produce 6.2 million
tons per year of saleable high grade concentrate derived from the low grade
ore, and related infrastructure consisting of a 60 MW power plant and
extension of railway, port and housing facilities. This project was to be the
first phase of a final development of twice the capacity'.
3.03 The SNIM Rehabilitation Project consists of managerial improvements,
operating cost reductions, and the external financing of a variety of urgent
minor replacement and rationalization investments.
4. Project Deign and organization7
4.01 Feasibility Study. As early as the late 60s, MIFERMA had started a
oroadly based exploration campaign in the area of its mining activities to
look for an eventual replacement of its depleting iron ore reserves. In the
mid 70s, work concentrated on the low grade Guelbs iron ore deposit, which was
believed to be the only available sufficiently large deposit with suitable
characteristics for economic ore beneficiation. Various alternatives for ore
beneficiation, including wet and dry gravimetric and magnetic separation were
considered. Due to the region's scarcity of water, a fully dry prototype
beneficiation plant, based on dry grinding and magnetic separation was
K5aiLt Fund for Arab Economic Development, Arab Fund for Econoie and Social Deelopmnt, Afriean
Deelopent Fund, Ceisse Central. de Cooperation Economique, European Investment Bank and European
Oevelopment Vund/Sysmin. Agre%d, in prineLple, at Co-lenders Mbeting of June 4, 1957. Applications include
equipment for railway, mining, workshop and telecommunications.
6 At appraisal, lt was estimated that Phase 1 and 2 would be in full operation by 1990.
7The following Secttons 4 and 5 concentrate on the Guslbs Project only, ln particular on the Guelbs
beneficiition plant. Information relating to implementation and costs of the SNIM Rehabilitation Project can
be found Ln Tables 4 and 5 of Part II.



- 3 -
retained. The work was carried out by SOCOMINE, France, (the Engineers), a
niewly formed engineering company with ex-MIFERMA managers as key personnel.
The study was carried out in great detail and in a professional way.
4.02 Due to the unusual difficulties in achieving rated capacity of the plant
and the changed iron ore prices, SNIM started, after the Project's
construction, an extensive and thorough re-evaluation of the region's
remaining high grade ore occurrences. As a result, the Mhaoudat deposit was
discovered in 19878. In addition, reserves in the depleting Kedia mines proved
to be at least 40 million tons larger than anticipated at apprairal. In
retrospect, the Project would not have been necessary at the chosen time and a
more thorough evaluation of even minor indications of additional high grade
ore reserves should have been contucted. Also, after the poor start-up
experience (para. 5.05-5.07) it is now evident that more consideration should
have been given to alternative process and plant designs with a view to
eliminate or reduce the risks associated with the untried dry process and
protoype plant, although market considerations favored the retained solution
at the time9.
4.03 Pllot Plant Tests. In view of the prototype nature of the plant,
extensive pilot plant testing was carried out as pait of project preparation
and to supply a sound basis for design of the commercial plant retained in the
feasibility study. The pilot plant was of large size and treated an unusually
large amount of ore10. Nevertheless, the results of the commercial plant
appear to indicate that the assumed scaling-up factor and the hardness of the
ore bcve been underestimated. In retrospect, a more conservative approach in
using pilot plant data would have been appropiate.
4.04 Engineering. The relatively little experience available with the
selected process caused the Bank to request the creation of a technical
committee, consisting of prominent iron ore beneficiation experts, to assist
the design team in reducing technical risks. Although all major design aspects
of the plant were discussed with and approved by the committee, there have
been, in retrospect, major errors in designing the plant's process, in
particular with relation to the big dry grinding mills. The selected closed
air circuit proved to be detrimental with regard to dust generation and plant
performance. Modification is required.
4.05 Project Organization. The size and corplexity of the Project caused the
Bank to request the assignment of a Director of Operations, who would be
responsible, on SNIM's part, for overall project coordination, while direct
supervision of procurement and construction was contracted to the Engineers.
a SNDM found this deposit by following up on minor surface indications of high grade ore, which at zhe
time of the Project's appraisal were known but interpreted as too small for cossrcial eaplottation. Today,
as result of a detailod exploration campaign, carried out by SHIN with its own means, the Company has proven
so million tons of ore reserves in this deposit, vhich cau be exploited without benefielation.
9The selected process is well adapted to minter foed production, whereas other processes would produce
a higher share of pellet ieod, for which market risks are higher.
10 The pilot mill hrd a diameter o'! 2 meters and treated 15.000 tons of ore extracted from various
points of the Guelbe orebody.



-4-
Although there have been some difficulties in filling this post"l, SNXM
demonstrated satisfactcry project managemeuit performance and was organized
appropiately. The incurred delays during project construction are attributable
partly to suppliers and partly to the Engineers' lack of experience in
executing projects of this complexity (para. 5.03).
4.06  Trust Arrangements. The Project's unsatisfactory financial return and
political events12 lead the Guelbs Lenders to design and impose the Trust
Arrangements as an essential part of their lending operation for the Project.
The Arrangements are a comprehensive and complicated legal framework13 by
which all proceeds from iron ore sales are assigned to the Lenders and paid
into an offshore account at the Banque Domiciliataire 4, a portion destined
for the debt service is set-aside with first , iority to the Trustee 5, a
second portion, destined for SNIM's operational foreign exchange needs, is
set-aside to the Operational Account at the Banque Domiciliataire, and the
remainder is transferred to the Central Bank of Mauritania for the account of
SNIM. In general, the Arrangements worked well and achieved their purpose: up
to now, there have been neither defaults on debt service payments nor
production losses due to lack of foreign exchange. This contributed to
survival of the Project and the Company under extreme financial conditions.
However, the complexity of the arrangements at one time led to several
lenders' failure, including the Bank's, to timely pre-announce debt service
payments and thus jeopardized availability of sufficient funds in the Trust
Account (para. 8.02). There have also been difficulties for the Banque
Domiciliataire and SNIM to timely meet reporting requirements. For a new
operation requiring trust arrangements, simplifications should be recommended.
S. Projoet Implementation
5.01  Loan Effectiveness. Loan effectiveness was dependant, among others, on
signing all legal documents, which form part of the Trust Arrangements, by all
Lenders. These documents were signed on July 7, 1980, seven months after the
Loan and Cuarantee Agreements with the Bank. The late signature caused a
moderate delay of about four months in the Project's execution, since a few
early equipment supply contracts could not become effective, while
downpayments f'or most critical contracts were made by SNIM from own cash
generated.
SNIM asslgned project contrc; to a capable engineer, without promoting him to the rank of Director
of Operations. Wlth saew delay, SNIM recrulted an expatriate Dlrector of Operations, who never was fully
accepted by SNIM's projoct team a*d who resigned sLnce.
12 At appraisal, the Project's fizinieal rate of return, even after completion of Phase 2 and without
paymnnt of taxes, vas estimbted to be only SX. The PolLsaric guerrilla war and an unstable Government
preser-ted considerable polLtical risks.
13 The related maLn legal docu,mnts consist of the Security Agreemont, the Set-Aside Agreement, the
Trust Deed and the lemorndum of Cooperation.
14 Societe Generale, Agence Internationale, Paris, France.
15 Lav Debenture International, London, UK.



-5
5.02  Procurement. With the Engi.neers' assistance, procurement documents were
prepared properly, and the Bank's guidelines were followed for all Bank
financed procurement. The first bids for the Bank-financed contract for
industrial civil works were rejected because their prices were unreasonably
high in the Engineers' opinion. The re-bidding resulted in a delay of about
three months and in fewer bids with equal or higher prices. In retrospect, it
was therefore a wrong decision to call for re-biddirg. Occasionally, also long
bid evaluations bv SNIM contributed to delays.
5.03 Construction. The Zirst production line of the Guelbs plant started
trial runs under load in July 1984, the second line in October 1984, -Yhereas
at appraisal it was assumed that both lines would start-up in January 1983.
The delav if about 20 months is partly due to late effectiveness of loans,
handling if procurement16 procedures a..d occasional difficulties of suppliers
in wmet'eng target dates. Mainly, however, delays were caused by the need to
fill-in smaller contracts for specialized equipment at a relatively late stage
and to match equipment of different suppliers. The Engineers, despite their
professional competence and integrity, apparently underestimated the
complexity of the task. In retrospect, more rigorous application of turn-key
contracts might have resulted in less delays.
5.04 Proiect Cost. The Guelbs Project's installed cost (including mine and
infrastructure) amounts to US$ 372,6 million, 15% lower than appraisal
estimate. Increases in working capital and interest during construction up to
the first commercial shipment of iron ore concentrates (March 1985) amount to
US$ 41.8 million, 32% lower than appraisal estimate, due to a concentration of
contract payments towards the later phase of project implementation. However,
if all cash operating losses, plant improvements and interest paymsnts
incurred from March 1985 to January 1990 are considered, a cost of US$ 100-120
million would have to be added. Further plant modifica_.ions in the order of
US$ 10-15 million are still required. The Project's final cost, broadly
defined, therefore is likely to be in the order of US$ 550 million.
5.05 Start-up of Production. Despite extensive and early training of plant
personnel at SNIM's Nouadhibou training _enter, which was specifically created
for this purpose, early involvement of SNIM engineers in design and
construction supervision, adoption of a sophisticated and appropiate
organizational structure, technicel assistance from a renowned French steel
company and qualified other expatriate personnel, the Guelbs plant experienced
an unusual level of start-up difficulties which have still not been overcome.
At appraisal,it was estimated that the plant would be in full production by
the end of 1983, or one year after completion of its construction. Today, more
than five years after completion of construction, the plant has reached only
40% of its initially assumed capacity.
5.06 In addition to the process design flaws (para. 4.04), key equipment has
shown mechanical and electrical failures in excess of normal expectations.
16 Tmre were some difficulties in particular with cofinanced lots, and at one staos a colander
temporarily suspended disburs.mnts.



These are partly risks inherent to similar projects in the mining and
metallurgical industry on a worldwide scale, in particular if a prototype
process and plant is involved. Dry grinding mills similar to SNIM's only exist
at a Canadian iron ore operation1 . At the time of appraisal, the Canadian
operation was still in the start-up phase and, like SNIM, experienced
problems. After about 10 years, the plant finally succeeded in yielding full
production. For the Guelbs project, the original estimate of achieving full
production only one year after completion of construction was a grossly over-
optimistic assumption, not only in retrospect, but even at appraisal.
5.07 Major equipment, in particular for material handling, such as reclaimers,
feeuers and conveyors, proved to be poorly adapted and underdesigned for the
heavy duty service required. There has been a tendency of suppliers to offer
cheap technical solutions in order to lower the bid price.
5.08 Based on the experience gained and with assistance of a
manager/engineer, who had a key role in the Canadian project, SNIM formulated
an appropiate action program which contains important plant modifications to
improve the process and reinforcA equipment. The program is under execution.
In October 1989, SNIM also made important managerial changes. Output of the
plant is on an increasing trend.
6. Project Results
6.01 Proiect Objectives. The project objectives have only partly been
achieved. While construction of the Guelbs Project, despite delays, was
co-pleted within budget, the plant still suffers from protracted start-up
difficulties. Due to the discovery of Mhaoudat and additional high grade ore
at Kedia, the transfer to exploitation of low grade ore lost its previous
urgency. Due to the much lower than estimated iron ore prices, continuation of
the high grade ore operations at a high level of production is needed for the
Company's survival. The second phase of the Project (para. 3.02) cannot be
conceived as a viable operation under present conditions and must therefore be
postponed indefinitely.
6.02 The subsequent SNIM Rehabilitationi Project and investments achieved the
inten-ded cost reductions and helped to raise productivity to a level which,
since only recently, allows the company meet all its cash flow needs, despite
unexpected further decline of iron ore prices and changes in exchange rates.
However, the results are still insufficient to fully restore the company's
future financial viability. Unless appropiate restructuring of the debt
incurred with the Project is completed, the company is not in a position to
engage in new bortowing for its vitally important Mhaoudat project (para.
4.02).
6.03  PWhsical Results. The mine and infrastructure components of the Guelbs
Project were completed without problems. The Guelbs mine today is a modern,
17 Carrol Lake of International Iron Ore Cowaeny, Canada.



- 7 -
efficient and low cost operation, and SNIM has been able to achieve record
performance of its railway"'. The problem lies with the Guelbs beneficiation
plant. Availability of the plant has reached only 40%, or half of the
appraisal estimate (80%). Although plant modifications have not yet been
completed and tested, it may be expected that, as a result of the current
action program and the managerial changes, 65% availability can be achieved
finally. The remaining difference of 15% to appraisal estimate would be due
mainly to the initial underestimatior. of dust generation and its impact.
Hourly throughput of a production llne (determined by the milling rate) has
reached 75% of the appraisal estimate. It may be expected that, as a result of
the current action program, 80% can be achieved finally. The remaining
difference of up to 20% to appraisal estimate would be due mainly to the
assumption of a wrong scaling-up factor from the pilot plant tests and to an
underestimation of ore hardness. Product specifications and recovery rates for
magnetic ore are as expected19. Due to the reduced availability and
throughput, a de-rating of the nominal plant capacity will be necessary. The
best present estimate is that the plant finally will have a production
capacity of about 4 million tons per year of concentrate.
6.04 With the SNIM Rehabilitation Project, the Company achieved a reduction
of staff by 25% and spin-off of its previous steel miill (SAFA), hotels,
restaurants, clubs and supermarkets (SOMASERT), and sale of 3 company
airplanes. This, together with other cost reductions, was more than expected
at appraisal. The total cost savings achieved are in the order of US$ 11.4
million per year, or 35 % higher than the appraisal estimate. Parallel with
the cost reductions, SNIM improved management and overhauled and renewed
important production equipment, with funds made available under the Project
and the funds provided for replacement and productivity-increasing
investments. This has laid the basis for further productivity increases, which
in 1989 resulted in a record production of 12 million tons, 25% more than
estimated at appraisal of the SNIM Rehabilitation Project.
6.05 Financial Performance20. The actual financial rate of return of the
Guelbs Project has been calculated at -10%, considerably lower than the
already abnormally low rate of 5% calculated at appraisal2%, due to the much
lower than estimated iron ore price22 and the technlcal problems of the plant.
The totally unsatisfactory return of the Project lead to non-compliance with
is 12 million tons of iron ore were transported in 1989, a record in MIFERMA4 rand SND 's hIstory.
19 There Ls however a problem of achieving the estimated product qualities and quantities ehen treating
oxidized ore. An appropiate research program for process modification ts under vay.
20 The following section concentrates on financial results. In Table 6, en attenyt has been made to
also compare actual and appraisal estimates of economIc rates of return.
21 The economic rate of return calculated at rppraxsal vas 12X. The diffeTence is mainly due to shadow
pricing of Mauritanian labour at 352 of financial cost. This was a major consideration for project approva.
at the time.
22 yn real terms, fob Nouadhibou prices in the period from 1977 to 1989 dropped from 16.9 US$It to 9.3
US8lt equivalent in 1977 terms, or by 45X.



the financial covenants under the Loan Agreement23 and brought the Company to
the brink of financial ruin. Only SNIM's significant productivity increases
made the Company survive, and strict financial discipline allowed it to meet
its obligations under the Trust Arrangements, at the cost of building-up
excessive short-term debt.
6.06 The actual financial rate of return of the SNIM Rehabilitation Project
has been calculated at 21%, or the same as appraisal, despite a further drop
of iron ore prices to about 70% of the 1985 estimate. This success improved
the joint financial return of the Guelbs Project and the SNIM Rehabilitation
Project from -10% to -2%, which, however, still is a highly un.atisfactory
value. In order to acbieve a satisfactory rate of return, iron ore prices
would have to increase by almost 100, *r the investment would have to be
devalued to 10% of its actual cost.
6.07  Develooment Imgact. Due to lcw   i'-n ore prices and the development of
the fishery sector, which took pla-.:   an unforeseen way after appraisal of
the Guelbs Project, iron ore mining :At, '.- dominant macro-economic role.
Furthermore, the high capital cost involved and the increase in operating cost
turned the Project into a financial burdeu for the Company, with no or little
budgetary benefits for the country.
6.08  Nevertheless, iron ore mining remains a very important economic
activity in the northern part of the country. About 200,000 persons,
representing more than half the region's population, depend on it, directly
and indirectly. Even under the present tight financial situation, SNIN still
generates about US$ 70 million foreign exchange after debt service and
indirectly contributes about US$ 7 million to the Government's budget in the
form of workers' income tax. The Guelbs Project, now invested and regarded as
sunk cost, is an important basis for SNIM's future survival. The technology
transfer involved strengthened the country's industrial skills. Similarly, the
managerial and productivity improvements achieved under the SNIM
Rehabilitation Project are a success not only for the Company, but for the
country's industrial sector.
7. Project Sustainability
7.01 SNIK learned from the experience made by starting-up the Guelbs Project,
formulated an appropiate action plan to bring the plant into full production,
and is now well on track with its implementation. The previously set
production goal of 2.0 million tons for 1989 was met. Production is on an
increasing trend, and the morale of the workforce is good. The cash break-even
point of the Project's operation has been reached24. Based on a careful
analysis of past operations and planned plant modifications, there is a high
probability that production will be increased to and maintained at a level of
23 Debt/equity ratio not to exesed 1.5 and current ratio not to be less than 1.3.
24 Defined as the min-nn production lewel at which the revenues from the sale of the Project's product
cover all operating cost (excl. interest end depreciation) of the Guelbe mine end plant.



4.0 million tons per year, which will contribute substantially to cover the
Company's fixed costs of operation25.
7.02 Supported by the SNIH Rehabilitation Project and the related
investments, SNIH demonstrated impressive sustained performance over the last
five years, which led to the record production in 1989, despite the
limitations of the Guelbs Project.
7.03 There are now sufficient proven high grade ore reserves, which together
with the Guelbs Project, are a solid base for maintaining the company's
present producvion level over the next 15 to 20 years. The blend of high grade
and low grade ore will increase the Company's flexibility in marketing.
7.04 In total, the outlook for the Company's sustained performance is good.
S. Bank Perforuance
8.01 Since preparation of the Project, the Bank has alwaya muintained a role
in advising the Borrower, the Government and co-lenders. Already in 1981, the
Bank started warning about the risks of substantial'future cash shortfalls and
the need for appropiate action2. Since that time, the Bank continued to
stress the need for change and contributed directly and indirectly to
designing the SNIM Rehabilitation Project. The Bank's assistance often has
been instrumental in obtaining agreement between the Company, Government and
Lenders, and it contributed to the survival of Mauritania's iron ore sector.
8.02 The Bank's iron ore price forecasts used for appraisal of the Guelbs
Iron Ore Project and the SNIM Rehabilitation Project turned out to be far too
optimistic in both cases, although they were considered conservative at the
time. At the beginning of loan repayment, the Bank also failed to observe the
notification time, required under the unusual and complex Trust Arrangements,
for declaring the first debt service payment consisting of principal and
interest27. This caused a shortage of funds in the trust account, which was
met by SNIM through direct payment.
8.03 The following lessons may be drawn for future comparable lending
operations:
(a) greatest attention should be given to appropiate design of
financially marginal projects. Ways to defer the project or
fundamentally change its concept must be fully explored as early as
possible in the project cycle. Reliance on pilot plant testing and
expert technical committees is no safeguard against the risks connected
with prototype industrial plants;
25 Cotts of railway, port and Company's overheas, but excluding the financial chrges of the Project.
26 SupervLsion lMission Report, Kuwait Fund - World Bank Joint Xission, September X to 11, 1981.
27 Payments consisting of interest only have to be annaunced 100 days in dvances paymeunts consting
of principal and interest require 300 days notice.



- 10
(b) suitable ir.volvement of an experienced operator of similar
industrial plant from early design through completion of start-up is
highly desirable; and
(c) if unusual loan procedures, such as trust arrangements, are
involved, special care should be taken that they are simple and clearly
understood by all parties and persons concerned.
9. Borrower erformanoe
9.01 In general, since appraisal of the Project in 1979, the Borrower's
performance has been satisfactory, with excellent improvement over the last
five years. All covenants under the two Loan Agreements (loans 1747 and 2643),
except those dealing with financial ratios, have been complied with.
9.02 At the early stage of project implementation, there have been some
difficulties in executing timely international procurement as well as in
adapting training to real needs . At times, there were also difficulties in
meeting the reporting requirements under the Trust Arrangements timely and
completely.
9.03 The main lessons that may be learned by industrial borrowers with
comparable projects are:
(a) an appropiate form of partnership should be sought with an
experienced operator to assist in project design, audit of technical
specifications for plant and equipment, training and start-up. This
would help to safeguard against inappropiate consultant and engineering
advice; and
(b) turnkey contracts should be applied to the extent possible. Re-
bidding should be avoided.
20. Project Relationshlp
10.01 The Nauritanian Government cooperated well. It complied with all
covenants under the Guarantee Agreements. Given SNIM's dominant role in the
national economy, the Government exercised unusually little direct daily
control over the Company. Instead, it followed a prudent and successful policy
of keeping relations with SNIN at arms length and encouraging the Company's
performance. After availability of the results of the taxation study carried
out under the SNIN Rehabilitation Project, the Government immediately dropped
28 At that tim, SNIM maintained a relatively large workforce, which it justified vith training needs
for the Guelbs Projects, but whLch was also maintained for soclo-poitical reasons.



- 11 -
all tax claims on SNIM29.
10.02 Cooperation with the co-lenders was good. There have been no major
disagreements at any time. There have been several Lenders Meetings, during
which agreements were reached on SNIM's and the Government's actions and on
additional financing (para. 2.01). The Kuwait Fund and the Bank were assigned
from the beginning Lenders Representatives30. This arrangement worked well and
facilitated efficient cooperation.
I1. Consulting Services
11.01 Reputation, qualification and motivation of the firms which provided
consulting and engineering services to SNIM were good. Yet, the Project
incurred delays (para. 5.03) and unusual start-up difficulties (para. 5.07),
which are partly contributable to insufficient experience of the Engineers
with similar plants. Once the problems became apparent, the Engineers tended
to defend previous design decisions by cautiously proposing relatively minor
modifications, rather than helping the borrower, in a totally open and
constructive way, to find broader solutions for rectification of errors.
11.02 One of the most valuable and competent types of technical assistanc-
SNIM received was from highly experienced and motivated individuals working on
a part-time basis as needed for well specified tasks. The Project also
demonstrated that the Borrower's will to succeed through own efforts and
genuine wish for qualified outside support are the most important ingredients
of successful technical assistance.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.01  The Project was based on an unusual amount of legal documents31L. All
these documents have been useful, although a simplification of the Trust
Arrangements would have been desirable (para. 4.06). The Staff Appraisal
Reports provided a useful framework, despite overoptimistic expectations, in
particular with the first loan (Ln.1747).
12.02 Data collection for this PCR was greatly facilitated by the Borrower's
appropiate project documentation.
29 Whereas the study rec_mended to lLlt SNIM's taxes to normal profit tax (which would be sere due to
lack of profits) and to j.uport tax only on those item which src not solely Liported for SM's use, the
Government was ready to rcrv-e all taxes in order to facilitate SIND's opereatons end Ln linm with the
spirit of the Convention Particuliere (Footnote 31).
30 As agreed in the Memorandum of Cooperation, the Kuwait Fund was to represent all Arab lenders, and
the Bank *1L other lender.
31 In addition to the Loan and Guarantee Agreemonts and the documents which form part of the trust
Artangeeonts (Footr.Q2e 13), there is the Convention Particuliere. en agreement between the Government end
the Borrower regulating their relationship and taxation.



- 12 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITANIA
GUELBS IRON ORE PROJECT (Loan 1747-MAU)
and
SNIM REHABILITATION PROJECT (Loan 2643-MAU)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
13.   The feasibility study on the Guelbs Project was distributed to potential
lenders in April 1976 before being supplemented by the TSR alternative the
following July. At that time the iron ore market was buoyant and SNIM was a
going concern, though high grade ore reserves were already showing signs of
depletion and insecurity was brewing in the region in the run-up to the war in
the Sahara.
14.   Aware of the venture's importance to Mauritania, the lenders put their
trust in SNIM, while protecting their positions with a number of loan guaran-
tee conditions.
AL Loan Conditions
15.   We shall discuss below SNIM's reaction to some of these covenants, before
reviewing project execution and start-up and SNIM's own scorecard.
*     The requirement that SNIM concentrate on the iron business:
This was good for SNIM.
*     Appointment of a Director of Operations:
This position, which was supposed to coordinate project implemen-
tation, was perceived as a layer parachuted into the structure; it
played an overall negativ' role in the course of the project.
*     Committee of experts:
This committee of internationally known experts, approved by the
lenders, was to supervise technical decision-making during the
project. It was unfortunately unable to play this role fully and
often served as a cover for the engineering firms to legitimize
their choices.   There was no question about the competence or
integrity of the men selected, but rather:
-     the work method adopted
-     the short duration and the spacing of the meetings
-     the complexity of the project
-     the experts' -rather generalist background. which made their
mission more or less ineffective.
*     Benign dust conditions:
Notwithstanding the positive findings of all the studies and expert
assessments by ILO and SNIM and its engineering units, the volume
of dust inside the plant was much greater than expected, and further
investments had to be mobilized to eliminate or at least alleviate
it (electrostatic filters throughout the exhaust system).



- 13 -
*     Engineering and consultants:
SNIM undertook to keep the consultants and engineers already approved
by the Bank (IBRD), but, for the sake of transparency in relations
between the company and its engineering consultants, it is better
if contracts are drawn up freely so that neither party feels it is
being imposed on the other by an outside organization.
*     Financial conditions:
-     The Security and Set-Aside Agreements for the Guelbs Project,
and in particular the Trust Arrangements, were cumbersome,
costly and ill suited to SNIM's financial situation.
-     Moreover,  the lenders saw it as a safety net and later
perpetuated the arrangement, which became an ordinary
guarantee. The project's weighted average finance cost was
thus high, at 5.52, compared with the financial rate of return
of 5? estimated at appraisal.
The remaining financial conditions were on the whole positive
(cost reduction, curtailment of debt ratios, etc.).
B. Prolect Implemenration
16.   The design and engineering of the project were carried out in conformity
with international standards and the lenders' recommendations:
-     overall design (in Mauritania and abroad) was coordinated by the
SOCOMINE team.
e     detailed engineering was performed by engineering groups well known
in Europe, such as SOFRESID, SGTE, SEBA, etc.
*     technical decisions were taken at regular intervals and were first
screened by the Committee of Experts and submitted to the lenders'
representatives during each of their missions.
*     consultation  procedures  were  scrupulously  observed  in  close
cooperation with the lenders:
-     Notice of prequalification
-     Issue of invitations to bid
-     Public bid opening
-     Preparation of selection report by the project engineers
-     SNIM contract committee
-     Approval by lenders.
17.   The recommendations of the engineering consultants and thus the selection
report were confirmed by SNIM and the lenders on every occasion but one: Contract
C081, awarded to KRUPP rather than to FCB.



- 14 -
18.   Although no one can doubt KRUPP's ability to supply efficient conveyors
and the selection report faulted it only for its high price (which could have
been lowered), the company was completely non-responsive and did the project a
great deal of hRrm.
19.   Management and coordination of project start-up operations were handled
directly by SNIM, which acquitted itself rather creditably.
20.   The slippages that occurred in scheduling were caused partly by KRUPP's
non-performance and partly by delays in payment due to cross conditionality with
other loans to the government imposed by some of the lenders.
C. Start-up Problems
21.   SNIM was responsible for the preparation and management of project start-
up, in close collaboration with its lenders and their engineers. Faced with a
wide range of choices, it was decided to rely first and foremost on Mauritanian
staff from its own ranks or trained in:
- 'sMauritanian technical training institutions
-     SNIM training centers
-     institutions abroad
and to provide them with appropriate additional training abroad (suppliers) or
on-site.
22.   This SNIM team was reinforced during the first few years of plant operation
by a core of managers and technicians seconded by a highly efficient European
company (SOLMER), supplemented by technicians seconded to equipment suppliers.
23.   This novel experiment was particularly interesting and, despite the risk
taken with an only partially seasoned workforce, it was on balance a success.
24.   It would be impossible to blame them for the technical problems encoun-
tered during start-up or the slowness with which the plant came on stream, as
will be seen from the analysis of these problems below.
25.   Contrary to a view often put around, the Guelbs plant is not entirely a
prototype.  It consists, on the one hand, of equipment well known within the
industry, such as gyratory mills, conveyors, bucket wheel excavators, stackers,
screens, etc. and, on the other, of:
*     semi-autogenous mills that also, at the time, were no longer at the
supposed prototype stage since two of them had been operating at IRON
ORE CANADA (IOC) for several years.
*     dry magnetic separators, which are less well known in the industry
on the scale adopted, but of which a prototype was tested at Zouerate
for more than 13,000 hours before it was finally selected.



- 1S -
26.   If the project was a prototype at all, it is because it was all assembled
in the middle ef the desert, far from any source of supply.
27.   The variety and complexity of the problems encountered entailed a sig-
nificant additional workload for the suppliers and the start-up teams. In the
case of the latter, SNIM frequently had to strengthen them and change the way
they were organized, in order to cope with these problems, which can now be
broken down into 6 broad electromechanical groups:
*     undersized bucket wheel excavators for collecting crushed ore
*     unprotected exhaust fans
*     heavy dust, which was hard on both men and machinery
*     poorly designed KRUPP conveyor system, which was ill suited to the
plant
*     heavy wear in the ventilation circuits and shielding
*     spare part requirements underestimated when contracts were signed.
28.   This list is not exhaustive, but simply summarizes some of the main
problems to blame for the plant's poor electromechnical service record.
29.   Technical solutions to these problems were found, and financing was
provided by EIB and ADB as part of the productivity project; implementation is
under way.
30.   It is relevant to point out in this connection that SNIM had quickly--
and while there was still time--drawn attention to the fact that:
*     the in-service time assumed for the project was too high (82Z vs.
781 at IOC)
*     after only one ore breaking cycle, the bucket wheel excavators were
seen to be unsuited to ore like that from Guelbs
*     at the Guelbs plant, filtering was required throughout the exhaust
system just as at the pilot plant.
At the time, the engineering consultants and the Cowmittee of Experts rejected
these reservations.
31.   Process problems are of two kinds:
*     Inadequate plant throughput.  Mill throughputs are running at 752
of the capacities predicted by the scaling-up formulas, them-selves
thought too conservative at the time.   SNIM is exploring all
parameters that might improve this throughput.  IOC took more than
10 years to reach its rated output.



- 16 -
*     Difficulty of processing the oxides in two magnetic separation
stages, whereas, on the strength of the pilot results, these products
were seen as the *real meat" of ).he project; so far, the first-
stage concentrates are good, but the 2nd stage products are sold as
middlings.
32.   The sampling method adopted for the oxidized ores during the research
phase appears to have been faulty, and further processing is needed to improve
the iron content of the concentrates. The trials under way are fairly encour-
aging.
33.   SNIM has appealed to several well-known ore processir. authorities to
offer their insights, and some of these experts are already on site, including
Mr. Jardine, former General Manager of IOC.
D. SNIM'S SCORECARD
34.   The Guelbs project has been an extra -ply enriching experience both in the
engineering field and in terms of its original financial launching, as well as
in human terms, where it has helped SNIM to make real headway.
35.   Engineering.  This project is a technological "gold mine" because of the
variety and complexity of the techniques involved. SNIM has endeavored to derive
as much benefit as possible from it by acquiring still greater in-depth
familiarity with:
-     dirferent ore crushing and beneficiation techniques
-     state-of-the-art electronics and robotics
-     mechanical assemblies from several different countries, based on a
variety of technologies
-     problems of starting up complex industrial plants
-      ,.. etc.
36.   All this is an unquestionable plus for SNIM and for Mauritania.  If SNIM
were to undertake the project again today, it would certainly not be the same,
but this is easy to say after five years of problems.  The main improvements
would be:
*     The search for water for the plant.  It was concluded too early that
there was no water in the area, though the search had focused only
on a small 50-km strip around Zouerate. The presence of water would
have turned the project design on its head.
*     Development of a secondary milling line or the use of excavator
shovels to collect the crushed ore.
*     Introduction of a second milling stage to permit open circuit
operation.



- 17 -
*     Relocation of the magnetic separation equipment to eliminate waste
material as early as possible in the cycle, taking advantage of
advances in permanent magnet technology$ and to consider the scope
for 3- or 4-stage processing of refractory ores.
O     'When selecting equipment,  give more weight to reliability and
sturdiness than to capital cost whenever this is compatible with
the project's finances.
37.   Establishment of the financing plan. Twelve of the world's leading lenders
participated in the financing of this project, giving us the benefit of their
wealth of experience in similar projects and imposing on us the discipline of
complying with each one's rules and of being in a position to provide reports
at all times. SNIM and the Mauritanian Goverranent are the chief beneficiaries
of this.
38.   Human dimension. On this level, tL.e constant challenge posed by the world-
wide iron ore crisis, coupled with the start-up difficulties at the Guelbs plant,
prompted SNIM to do come self-analysis, to renew its self-confidence, and to seek
new solutions in order to survive. Achievements in this area include:
*     devising original solutions to certain problems at Guelbs, e.g.,
the use of permanent magnets as lifelong protective shielding in
the ventilation circuits of the mills
*     exploration for and discovery of more than 120 million tons of
naturally high-grade ore between the old Kedia deposits and the new
deposit at Mhaoudat
*     the continued search for high-grade ore in the area
*     the continuous effort to cut costs and improve productivity, which
in 1989 enabled the company to beat its 1974 production record
*     ... etc.
In this respect, Guelbs is unquestionably a project that has enabled both SNIH
and Mauritania to advance.
EL Conclusion
39.   In conclusion, and despite the long road that still lies ahead, we feel
the scoresheet on Guelbs is on balance a positive one and it is fortunate that
Mhaoudat was not discovered until later.
40.   We thank all lenders warmly for the valuable assistance they gave us, for
their unfailing moral and material support, and, last but not least, for having
treated us as an equal partner and respected us as such.



- 18 _
41.   The most eloquent testimony of this frt tful cooperation and mutual con-
fidence is to be found in the commitment which the same lenders have just entered
into with SNIM for the Mhaoudat project and the public enterprise sector
adjustment program.



- 19 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITANIA
GUELBS IRON ORE PROJECT (Loan 1747-MAU)
and
SNIM REHABILITATION PROJECT (Loan 2643-MAU)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Related Bank Loans
Ln       Shi a i      Det of              sm_
Loan No.  Proec Ttle and Purpoes                      Amount   Todl         boldA.p            Juy1 1.WK0
(US$ mib) Finarnog
249-FR    MIFERMA
To commercially develop Mauritania's Iron     66.0     3.Stt    Mc 15. 1600         ftullydibued
ore resources through construction of mines,                                        fully repid
raitway, port and Infrastructure
1747-MAU THE GUELDS IRON ORE PROJECT
To allow SNIM (previously MIFERMA) to continue  00.0    12.0w    July12. 1979       fullydlbrd.
operations after depletion of Its high grade oro                                    66.0 9 rapaid at
reserves through construction of the first phae
(6 MtVa) of a new low grade Iron ore mine and
beneficlation plant
2643-MAU  ONN REHABILITATION PROJECT                                                           fullydibursd,
To seoure medium-term financial and economIc  20.0    21.7% 7     oeember 17. 196    .  repI sf
vIablity of SNIM through Improvements in
management reducion f production cost ard
trnsformation of part of short-term debt Into
long-term debt
i/In tern di number di eemtunl reamet ma _, ausah lonn Waac wsen wIIt shun_e rat fcuain



- 20 -
Table 2: Project Timetable
Loan 1747-MAU                                Loan 2643-MAU
Date Planned        Actual Date              Date Planned        Actual Date
Item                       at Appralsal                                  at Appraisal
IdenUtfcation                                a/ Feb.04.1976                               bl MAr. 01,1904
Preparation                                  bl Jan.24.10?7                               bl Oct. 03. 194
Appraisal Mission                            bl Oct. 03.19"7                              bi Apr. 25. 196
Loan Negodations                             c/ Feb. 28.1979                              a1 Oct.15. 106
Board Approval                                  Jul. 12.1070                                 000.17.1965
Loan Signature                                  Dec. 14. 1970                                Jan. 27. 1o9
Loan Effectiveness                              Dec. 31, 160                                 mar. 1901. 1
ProectCornpletion          Jan.01,1983          Mar.31, 1965            Jun. 30. 1O8         Jun. 80. 1O6
Loan Closing               Jun. 30, 1983        Jan.15. 1965             Doo.31.1988         Dec. 31.1966
at datathu d*Wa fUeWty study
bi date of mlimbn dpwturs
at first day of negoaatlon



- 21 -
Table 3: Loan Disbursements
Loan 1747-MAU                               Loan 2643-MAU
OlbiuSnwmn (US$ amiNn)                        ubursMenwts(USSMIWn)
Bak Ficl Ya            Eamalud      ACtu          Acta 4 of         EdaMtod      Acta         Atu % of
wnd Quawrw             Cumuwila    Cumulati       Edimated          Cumulai      Cumul        EdGmad
1960    I               _            _
11             -             -
III             1.6          o            0%
IV              3.0          -            0%
1961    I               6.5                        0%
11              8.0          -            0%
III            14.0          1.1          2%
IV             20.0          3.0          5%
1962    1              26.5           4.7          6%
11             33.0         10.5         18%
III            40.5         17.8         30%
IV             48.0         21.3         35%
1S63    I              53.0          27.3         46%
II             86.0         32.8         59%
III            59.0         38.3         84%
IV             60.0         47.1         76%
o"4     1                            53.6        86%
II                         5S.2          90%
III                         60.3         96%
IV                          8O.4         09%
1965    I                            569.0        6%
11                          60.0        100%
III
166  I.o                                                                     -             o
III                                                         2.0          -            0%
IV                                                          3.0          5.0        167%
1987    1                                                            4.5          7.6        176%
II                                                          6.0         10.0        167%
III                                                         6.0         17.6        223%
IV                                                         10.0         19.5        106%
1966    1                                                           12.6         20.0        100%
II                                                         15.0
17.5
IV                                                         20.0



- 22 -
Table 4: Project Implementation
Appraisal Estimate                 Actual                   Months of Delay
maih of                          n 
am   Cmpetb    Ouon            am   Copt    ouai          on        COMPl _
Loan 1747-MAU
af Equlpment Procurwnent
bw Mlning                        Apr.80    Jul.82    27         May 81   Feb.83    21           13       7      .4
o Beneficiatlon                  Oct.79    Mar.82    29         DeO.78   May 4    63             2      20      24
dl Railroad                      Jul.80    Jan.82    18         Sep.80   Jan.SU    16            2       0      -2
of Power Plant                   Oct.79    Apr.81    18         Jan.60   Pdar.f    38            3      23      20
u ClI Works
Industral                     Jul.80    Nov.62    28          Sep.81   Jul.63     22         14       8       04
Housing                       Nov.79   Dec.62    37           Nov.60   Mar.63    28          12       3      4
Erscion                       Oct.80    Nov.82    25         Mar.62   Mar.64    24           17      16      -1
gl TiWPAn        UneA            Jan.83                         Oct34
Une 8          Jan.83                         Jul."
hi RrtE lpmwit                                                  Mar.65
Pi Conmld                     Dec.13
Loan 2643-MAU
y Managrl Improvements           Oet.84    Dec.57    36         Oct.64    Mar.67    29           0      4      4
Equipm. Peptam. &Overhaul Jan.64   Jun.U6  fl                Jan."4    Dec.6       e          0       a       6
Tralning & Techn. Asssanoe   Jan.64   Jul.6        64        Jan.64   Jul.68      64          0       0       0
r Proj  Complion                 Jul.816                         Dec.U
at key equmnt only. fom onan soInatuto site dw*wy
bi drsllms*=m,u id tuon
on mi d oensu o           o ontt N signed 16 mntslae (n NOv.81    d d Jul.O
di loomcto
*I gentsaee
U frm oantm esnature to  mdt  cI waf
g/ fet unnib of beneton pit under kod
hi   hpmnt fm port d fNoudhbou  edbe oneats owr enemW pufpo            ess new dfnltn dooftwn   d. no
dat wiw defnd at eppim
V ur defined at ap  i - date at which bnfltlon plt  d we prduoud 6.1 mINan tons c  a Peed of6 monts du* to
reduced produton cepat (se Tle S such da mey nw rr '
MO n      t reductons (vetuade & perano
kW at apppOW Wm defined  end tdf tme ss  finecg of equipmet retment md meil ttes hav been sme d         due to
sow dbumnt o co-lcndm



- 23 -
Table 5: Project Costs and Financing
A. ProlW 0osts
Guolbo Pr*o                                   SNIM RitabMIhdo  Pfolmot
Mind~ ~ ~ ~~~A
Apa   bSleda               AMId          800o        Ap  Eu                     Miwd       W d0
1L   Po.  Tat        L1   FP.  TeL. E _S             L.  Far.  TOt.   Leo   F.   TtaL  EsOrilds
MinN& Useoan qulm               Z?  18.? 18883  & 2  96.0  07.7  70
Por &AMd Equlpment              1.0  64.9  6L6       4.1  4d.OS68    06*
Pewr Plnt A E_r. Equlpm.        0.0  47.6  4.4       0.8  34.4  84.7  72*
AuW-y Equmnt                    0.0   6.    6.S      2.6   08  .0 142*
CON VAt                        1M4  76    60.0    16O  46.$  20Z  70*
E,eotmA &nh_adn                16.2  8.1  61.8       4.4  84.6  80.1  76*
Engiein A PrJect Maem           1.6  8LO0 8.         7.6   2.7  80.1  00*
PrsininuyAamTrdinmq             4.0  11.0  160      42.6   27  46.8 802
R.plmetco Equpmet                                                                    2.7  278  30.        ZS  20.3  20.0 04*
01A& Nqmm  dflqulpm.                                                                14.1  884  47.6   134   31.6  44.9 04*
Toob A Col Equpennt                                                                         60    6.0           4.7   4.7 04*
Trdinhg ATehn. AQltuc                                                                      0.2   g2             6.7   8.7 04*
SubtbeId Onaldied Costo) f9  88.080.6 430.4    70.6 200.0 872.0                     16.6  76.4  62    16.0  71.2  07.1 04*
inemenwAl ddr*nCeplt   bi    8.6  30.0  886          0.0   0.0  10.1      *-
eltSu.OungCoratuoton   1 d      1.2  26.   27.0      1.8  80.s  31.7 114*
TlOd                           44.6 41  6007        81.6 332.4 4U4    6*
B. Proect Fhwicng
(in tS nmEo)
KFTCK:, Kuw                                 40.0                 OA4
b  inhbg (kmpty                             2.0                 2a.s
kfA                                        2&0                   20.0
WU. mU                                      20.0                 182
kismio D        tkdapment Sak               10.0                 0Z1
OMItohue  OmitSuneral                      42.7                 380                              8.                  86.4
Subted                                     162.7                146.2                            36.4                O8.4
L_
KuwVAnb Funds                               600                  8L                              16.2 dl              180 of
oud" Fund                                   6o                   U.0                              6.7 di              6.0 
NMo00.0                                                          64.0                            20.0                20.0
OCOO, Fince                                 60.0                 4&0                              3.0 di              80
E                                          30.0                  16.2
Abu  0M  Fund                               20.0                 1Z0                              6.6 dl              L8
CO F.JM                                     1.0,                 11.7                             0.Idi                8a1
ADS                                         12O                  10.0
OPEC Fund                                    6.0                  4.0
Sub%ed                                    83.O                  2.1                              6                    60.7
Td                                         6my.                 414.8 U                          022                 07.1
al inbdcId   dootne. sud inet edot of Goo* Proece t per 8000MINE          t d i 1fl0
ied dened ae          g   *e   udu Proect up to Uor. 1965t pent). nhl. 26 d  lI'reord  Gueb  pu. w*xp  r 1066
ud fdld   iniest"hn bm  for Gul           ct up o UMec 106U (bet shipmen, ihde 26     UM           Interet 116
d unuzd pwrdn cmeforuef Po, told US 86. noiwn
siunuld podon 9 obas at nd d 66 tod US.mll
Uequvbdnt to unt  aed atnppre minue US  &  unutWlnd   ho 1068) dwe   due to e*_sn  rats en



- 24 -
Table 6: Project Rewns
Qolbowi PrdNtIMN PAhabUWtam                                      Jakat Projats
AprbI                             MD        Mjppd%
EGW_      AcM                   EIM_         AoW                            AeS
A.  Drect Benets
GUeSs Rmt
-mom .ftsos              ofi                    60          0
-OC lbdows                          Vhr        100         Soo
SacewEy                  bh           %         47%        47%
COpel                    ci         UVa         6.2        4.0
Pcs i dueodw                          %                                          16%        26%
di                                                     WAFA      SAFA
S. Economic Impact
Eoa. Ro  ofuawm          of           I         1i2%       -S%                   265%       10%                     %         0%
kesn off Pie             u          $           16.0       9.3                  13.2       90.
GuesPMdulles             OS         WVi         12.4       4.0
Ohpmlduedes              hi         MU&           -        7.0                   0.8      , 1.1
LAe,haevCet              U            %         36%        86%                  100%        36%
costew s                 V           WA                                          8.o       11.4
C. FlnancW Imp
FILPAW of F.tm           of           %          6%       -10%                   21%        21%                    1%        -8%
Undeulg AfsuPIs          hi
La Cost                  II           %        100%       100%                  100%       100%
-    e -                             W            -          -                   1.6          -
OSsF ResW Pwuesu
Aumultd Cuhow .in        n/            a        IS0                                                                          -60
0. SUd4
Tbxfn ofGN               d                           eni en                                none
W     apmeg        - labile mi   - w   w mU S'*uaidfr1Mwf   II1m*
d           1 S  "Mddead inerp euei, le USI ulboobnWoISdarOM5   sNo 5 ualegpe4 s ISP. U  id   .5- ai.wIke     moi Obmedwsieeww wsmpaa
CMs.47*meq -a wumy( eWASls' I  medimdfseetveimaid)d 6651 evbs
of lo-embl4 w               g     -b       pr"SrA                       a      _*        _
01 he es.eshdslm See leN_ibsaiWst
-1 amlwdls Me*mai rI          i   Piem  r2.maimd WI uliawiblegS eet&WMAhkl verne d WUu-w iiPIAs 1 5.5kaiMpedbnosie 2 15.1 .. Ai04 hl
.to0S iM. 1wd Mock
r{ Ow_                                   b       :      _      t      _         _h"                         t mu_lo
PI    sgsdaeg l__ ip kweemsedpe    1 _5-al. uIge150  1051 eI husm tem psi    laid 1t MIrsmimdI lbs.5s Is RuS P1
V  leild"s            _  : hi ISIbet Sabak l  1"ada..
P  MsUe.lesUS.Mmbwele.e
-  rey.eeromdle  "h_Im SttemI lSWr                                   __        _-M0 Rad PIclaledw
W   -                                                                                               - M besaidbat q.
d epwd O__^- hbdtnC@



- 25 -
Attachment to Table 6: Re-estimation of Rate of Return
Guelbs Project                                      SNIM  Rehabilitation Projoct                           Joint
Projects
Ptojeot Produ. FPwn. Opet.  Net Ben*fit           PRot  Produ. Rsvn. Cost SeW            Ope.  NOt Benfi            Net Befit
CoNt                   Cost  Finan.  Eoon.        C*Gt                    Labor Ote   Cost  Fnat. Econ.           Finat.  Eoon.
us      Mt      MS    Ms       MS      Ms          Ms       Mt    Ms    Ms    us    Ms    MS    MS                 Ms      Ms
at      bi      c/    d/       el      Ul          af      Gl      of    hi       I            kW      U           ml      n/
1980      13.2                         -13.2  -12.8                                                                         -13.2  -12.8
1961     86.4                          -86.4  -82.9                                                                         46.4  -62.9
1982    1t6.6                         -166.0  -161.9                                                                       -1t8.0  -161.9
193     170.6                        -17o0.  -166.6                                                                       -170o.  -166.6
1984     102.1                        -102.1  -99.0           13.2    0.6    11.2                 5.27   -7.3   4.2        -109.4  -106.3
196      14.7     0.9    17.6  20.4  -17.4  -14.6           27.9     0.3      6.8                2.60  -24.9  -23.7        -42.3  -38.2
166               1.6    24.2  27.3   -3.0       0.3        24.6     0.6    9.4    0.9    1.8  6.66  -18.2  -17.4          -21.3  -17.1
1987               1.4   20.8  26.1   -6.3   -2.1            23.2    0.8    12.3   2.9   3.1   7.88  -12.7  - 3.0           -16.0  -16.1
19o6               1.9   27.2  31.9   -4.8   -0.7             11.3     1.8   27.3   7.0   4.7  18.13    9.6    7.6            6.0     6.9
19s                2.0   33.0  33.0       0.0    4.0                   1.3   22.3    7.0   4.7  12.62   21.2   18.2          21.1   22.2
199                2.2   37.4  36.3    2.1        6.4                  1.3   22.4   7.0   4.7  12.60   21.6  18.6            23.7   26.0
1981               3.0   49.8  44.6    6.1    10.6                     1.3   21.7    7.0   4.7  12.60   21.0   17.9          26.0    28.4
1982               3.6   68.1   60.3      6.9   12.0                   1.3   21.1    7.0   4.7  12.60   20.3  17.3           26.2    29.3
1998               3.6    64.4  60.3    4.2    10.3                    1.3   20.6   7.0   4.7  12.60   19.7  16.7            23.9   27.0
199                3.6   62.7  60.3    2.6        8.6                  1.3   19.8   7.0    4.7  12.60   19.1   16.0          21.6   24.7
1996               3.6    61.0  60.3    0.8       6.9                  1.3   19.2   7.0   4.7  12.60   16.4   164            19.2   22.4
i16                4.0    68.6  68.0      Z6      9.4                  1.0   16.4   7.0   4.7  10.00   17.2  13.8            19.7   23.2
1997              4.0    68.7  66.0       2.7    9.6                   1.0    16.6   7.0    4.7' 10.00   17.2  13.9          20.0   23.6
1996              4.0    59.0  68.0       3.0    9.8                   1.0    16.6   7.0   4.7  16.00   17.3  13.9           20.2   20.7
1999              4.0    69.2  66.0       3.2   10.0                   1.0   16.6   7.0   4.7  10.00   17.3  14.0            20.6   24.0
20O                4.0    69.4  68.0      3.4    10.2                  1.0   16.6   7.0   4.7  10.00   17.4  14.0             20.7   24.3
2001               4.0    69.4  68.0      3.4    10.2                  1.0   16.6   7.0   4.7  10.00   17.4  14.0            20.7   24.3
2002               4.0    69.4  68.0      3.4    10.2                  1.0    16.6   7.0   4.7  10.00   17.4  14.0            20.7   24.3
2003               4.0    69.4  680       3.4   10.2                   1.0   166    7.0   4.7  10.00   17.4  14.0             20.7   24.3
204                4.0    69.4  66.0      3.4    10.2                  1.0   16.6   7.0   4.7  10.00   17.4  14.0            20.7   24.3
2006               4.0    69.4  66.0      3.4   10.2                   1.0   16.6    7.0   4.7  10.00   17.4  14.0            20.7   24.3
2006               4.0    59.4  66.0      3 4    10.2                  1.0   16.6   7.0   4.7  10.00   17.4  14.0            20.7   24.3
2007               4.0    69.4  68.0      3.4   10.2                   1.0    16.6   7.0   4.7  10.00   17.4   14.0           20.7   24.3
200                4.0    69.4   6.0      3.4   10.2                   1.0   16.6    7.0   4.7  10.00   t.'.4  14.0           20.7   24.3
200                4.0    69.4  68.0      3.4   10.2                   1.0   16.6   7.0   4.7  10.00   17.4  14.0            20.7    24.3
2010               4.0    69.4  680       3.4   10.2                   1.0   16.6   7.0   4.7  10.00   17.4  14.0            20.7   24.3
Pe al Rr                                  -10%J-                                                           21%   19%           -2%      0o
SI astralproject ast incos tec 1900 prices.  9  up to Mates6 tIbt e*fe
bf schre prodution Of GUiehe Pit uptoi9.meatr re pstdLvbc tlobvW-WtOt wc.peca
ef podcnk d t Commodh lybionJusWAuY 19 Ge Inh            utN 190 proe
dlq.*     Mcotiub Pt, tbusdontOMWeficedoo    ct St tvarMi Sue 5 o st sa.S     cgIct r Ms   port `IW Gera tw  d
*I ren io promet I  og ior opertin cost in Coneteh  190 prce
Uttr oonIpsl.n wdat ppruetinre ~pottreducedby3%dto Nd.t xee*en  orost35% i pt   Ostlet-da pd36%
W        a hpr o. atprrebI estiret. rto I   thera1her 6qtwee r-eI                                   odpcitor hety (I1 MUlt end   M   si e
IVeldpsrmel cast rtdutb>in. hcroate 19il60 p bric
V  _d r        in cat d sp pte vi. inh ont 9 1990 pt
ywinc,meresl ostiG csttO810it lat krmeineitproduction
ktVewe fro betiAt protion pk cast se          i  proljec  bIt cost minus cxrico cost    inrau t productin pinconhtri O96 prIe
Vprct steoreduted by duetol   1IrCet sbttcst etadw pid       %tn wS rh osta it       s rtP
d net Iwbict beneis ous   r     k nort isotl enffs Of SNIM  elutrO Utn Pr Iotn co   a 1I90 prie
rd not sonomic beowti of Sueft P pkstp net wnow.e  bnel otf ONIM Rhi%tiOn ProCt, in canteu logo prb



- 26 -
Table 7: Status of Covenants
Deormpto  of C4onant                                                                  Aarom.   COmnpfl-                  Remarks
Loan 1747-MAU
Borrower to oonthnuo to vwe tofvIO of conoutanto whooo quaniriatiorn and conrdlom     LA 3 02 (a)  yea
of enwymnes are su ospIS  to the Bait
Borrowr to estgblih raert commitle ot compolmon stabblactoy to the Bait               LA 3 02 (b)  yeo
Sorows to carry out. by Decowrbt 31. 1902. a etuo  on bng-twm ettta of deust tieiotion r  LA4 03(b)  yee   tuy,bVyr sreutrtcirtlombnldoTravll. Genera. conekuded that heath
by workers and to anmrmw  report to the Bank and to toaeD aqnat to protit workle ae sisk tt eccept". Borower i, mronitorhig 2 trice erw yesa health of
n'wrey                                                                                                     Gut staff.and is laipism tshm  etlulotory mreasr  tb/ rduce dust
orrows to reponnaitly to the Benk on water roervas and                                LA 4 04     yea      W WisK  isport ep wa  n durng awry etpeision mlisn. etrunhie
prospe       tigtote                                                                                       proeIeotIgn yiWd good' aut
rrower to ensure that adsqtatec (kntonn has ben obl A)sd belore unisrtaklng  tlciW st    LA 4 06  yen
rsqust o Qt3uator *mis  are not decrMl, baimlthttn Borrows' opeations (Law 78 104 o
AprIlS. 1I70). Annual repors for such  stitike end their flnenm  to be sent to te Banit
Borower to oonpt bY Dosbsr S3, (e3. program tor ost rduotore and to revisw annratyl lA 407
with Batnk reatie of slp taken
tortrower not to ast  moe thrn US5 2.0 mtion in any subtiy or parttcalon              LA 4 10     yes
B0rrowerat sto ssl iron or blow worl markt primc or at nono rtatts aine"y             LA 4.12     yet    this cleis weeit kidd becus of posatbl paeatiu   prcs  at
(hir of appran"a
Borrowr to ensure tat otwoted dbt sha nis "caued 1.5 tImes owontd ctal and            LA 504    in        eould not be mwt due to dsterlotnthg kron era orim
Borrower to  raiatio of curar  aStt  to curtr ntleisti oti te  than 1.3             LA5.05      ro      cod iat be mt due to daeroth  Wo ore prose
Borrowe is to pay any dbland; wnt_ cotrnentd financisi ratis  are met, ai tdqsta      LA5 OS  s)  yea
sal-l'nfl tar the Sonu  d Phas has been temuc ted
Borow  nrt to undrtk  M  kwaet    other than the Prosct eeering US$ 5.0 bteon per  LA 6.07        ye
Yewr
Each Lrt   to otty  the Ba*r   Dometrltaire end Borroe of lh atmounte of sansieus     BA 3.02 (bc)        severa Landwe (Icling Bani) krd not rioly tsy befor  im
de0tt svce pym ndt         ththan 100 edy hm edno  tof o,aa tonlstiniontareft                             repyment
ots, and 1Wt lar tn seo ye ftor pelymrs eonmsi of _ter   and _rme
Brwe to eVAN  to Cerl Bank of atauni for pparoa arm to copy to aschi Lender a   *      A 3.0t (b)          nitialy Bt. reived opies. Ceo"re) Batk or Grarwt nvr
cr   o te toagii eactanos r        _rret or operations, noti  b  thtn tOdys befo                           nteferd with Borrowr's toreign eioltng  raqiheimmat
te ad of Ny itisl year
Boroer to itnsh to Lridr' Reprerntatfres (hBin  t on of dt  two Rep rtel(() arnd    BA 4.02               Baitnk reeked topime of mary contrias. payment re tas by Sanqus
the B5W   Ooim_aa  opise oft  iss corc                                                                                                   l    ith rnt  , baye  h t rlh  rrowre resie
Binus Domisarnic    to prrds Leder' Relprsentat)ese with tals_nt of ad paym  e        SA 4.04             r ed p rtly with conot la deb"
rMed. 11t of at kon ose    m       aW P Af at am Mm" ty rwre. not MNat tha 16
dey d oftch ^ii
LO 264-MAU
(eniy c   _e       _ isth(roer those afredy liited wder iLoan 1747)
Borrow to bthe to t  Bat -    B weeks alte each qttr. E          of t otrrbmtnr    dtt y LAS O S LA  r 03(a)  roorts Pe"rot oelo4 Borrower sey pretred them and it
an epIF tI t.  wlt    reviy er _wesi                                                                      coknti to b go
Borower to etrhl to th Bak. ri tO I    s d Star ech worh rronthly pogn  raporte on    LA 3 00 b)  ye
ro t_lo   la
Borrowe t caSr ptt meseo dsorbed utdti   Sedler 5 beforeisee of the SoonmoTrnche LA3H04           ye      part oonftMbna were mnodifedby Bait
Borrwer to Ms'I tirt int I yer after Clostng Date r atio of cutnt *nta_ to ourrnr     LA 5.0S     no
1bIse of is oss than 1.3
Guwaatr to onlset by December 31. 19t6. a study on min   taxation with twi  o1 ttrefre  GA 301    yea
agoWd by the Bank
GA      GumrorAeemert
LA      Loan Apoemet
SA      S-AbOd  Aobcament



- 27 -
Table 8: Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Input
Loan 1747-#AU            Loan 2643-MAU
8tae Of Prolect Ctych                                   Actual SW                Actual SW
Through Departure of Approasal MIsion                       100                       87
Dsp. Appraisa; Mission through Board Approval               216                       28
Bord Approval through Effoctlvanses                          39                       10
Supervhsbon                                                  go                       61
Total          464                      174
B. Mlssions
Montl          No. of         Days, In                                Perform        Typs of
YOw            Persona        Fited          SPac ton                  Atin          ProbFeM
at                  b/             d
Loan 1747-4AU d/
Preparation         et        oim              7             la                 B,C,E.F.T
Appraisl                      107              3             17                 E,F,T
Post-appraal        t/        08/78            3              a                 E,F.T
Supervbibon 1                 10/79            3              6                 T
SuprWIon 2                    0480            4              6                 B,F.T                 2            F,M,T
Superviston 3                 1180             2              6                 F,T                   2            F,M
Supervision 4       g/        0981            3              7                 E,F,T                 2            F.M.P
SupervIsion 6                 0482            3              8                 8,F,T                 3            F,M,P
Supervision 8                 10182            3              8                 8,F,T                 3            F,M,P
Supervision 7                 04/83            3              6                 8.F.T                 3            F,U,P
Supervision 8                 12/83            3              e                 8,F.T                 3            F,M.P
Loan 2843-AAU hi
identification      U         03/84            2             14                 C,F.T
Prepwstlon                    10184            3              8                 8,F.T
Apprais"a                     06186            2              7                 F,T
Poet-appraisl                 OSv86            2              6                 F.T
Supervision I                 06/88            I              6                 T
Supervision 2                 10186            1              4                 T                      I
Supervision3                  12/U6            1              4                 T                     2            F
Supervsin 4                   087             2              a                 C,T                   2            F.T
Supervision 6                 06/88            2             10                 C.T                   2            F,T
aDS 8anr meswmpe, C Co.wrard. E E       Frn  t FirFbt Arca. T Teha
hi I probem-fr". 2 modeate pobme. S mor prbeme
Fr Fbuncst U Maruge    P Polictl (voaretafing end tlaoton. T Te Tlal /Cure prhi
a6*ton to theated miea, there raa been 10 mlonaoawcietct   hco-rahitodtrust wranrga.ns
f thte was no Mwtoettn mieton. teat etudy as reet tOr toet ro   r,ka o tw et to 6ank in Februwy 1978
V mas* to r-do 1e  M  of cratet-dst end catlbn after Qon t   ding
9f 15n msio'bn wSh KuwsM Fwd
Wv h 1 1dn to the  td mslb. ther he  b   4 mibclae ho   ctnwt    h eo-f hnin
V mitosn arroied ct marngot arid tdtohntat BudS oSNIM wth Itnc   ttr do oonr b



