Document of
The World Bank                FILE C
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2433a-MAU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO SOCIETE NATIONALE INDUSTRIELLE ET MINIERE
WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR
THE GUELBS IRON ORE PROJECT
June 21, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Current Unit   =   Ouguiya (UM)
US$1.00            UM 45
UM 1           =   US$0.22
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES EQUIVALENTS
1 metric ton (mt)            =   2,205 pounds (lb)
1 kilometer (km)      2      =   0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )    =   0.386 square mile (sq mi)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB          =    African Development Bank
AFESD             Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
AISI              American Iron and Steel Institute
ARMICO       =    Arab Mining Company
BCM          =    Banque Centrale de Mauritanie
BRGM         =    Bureau des Recherches Geologiques et Minieres
CCCE         =    Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
COMINOR      =    Complexe Minier du Nord
CVRD         =    Companhia Vale de Rio Doce
DCPP         =    Departement de Commercialisation des Produits
Petroliers
EEC          =    European Economic Community
EIB          =    European Investment Bank
FCB          =    Five Cail Babcock
FED          =    Fonds Europeen de Developpement
IISI         =    International Iron and Steel Institute
IRSID             Institut de Recherche de la Siderurgie
KFAED        =    Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
KFTCIC       =    Kuwait Foreign Trading, Constructing and Investment Co.
MIFERMA      =    Mines de Fer de Mauritanie
MSI               Mineral Services Incorporated
OECF         =    Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
OPEC              Organization of Oil Producing Exporting Countries
SNIM         =    Societe Nationale Industrielle et Miniere
SNIMEX            SNIM Explosif
SOCOMINE     =    Societe de Cooperation Minere et Industrielle
SOFREMINES   =    Societe Francaise d'Etudes Minieres
SOFRESID     =    Societe Francaise d'Etudes de la Siderurgie
SOMIMA       =    Societe des Mines de Mauritanie
SONADER      =    Societe Nationale pour le Developpement Rural
SGTE         =    Societe Generale de Techniques et d'Etudes
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
GUELBS IRON ORE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Societe Nationale Industrielle et Miniere (SNIM)
Guarantor:         Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Amount:            US$60.0 million equivalent
Terms:             15 years including 5 years of grace, with interest at
7.9% p.a.
Project
Description:       The Guelbs project consists of the sequential development of
two new iron ore open pits with proven reserves of 386 mil-
lion tons, both located in proximity to the present mining
town of Zouerate and existing infrastructure, to gradually
replace the Kedia pits now being depleted. Implementation
of the project would be carried out in two phases to ulti-
mately increase the present production capacity of 11.5
million tons to about 14 million tons a year by 1984.
Although the Guelbs ore is of a different quality (lower
iron content) than the Kedia ore, with magnetic concentra-
tion the products will actually be of higher grade and will
have good marketing characteristics. The proposed Bank loan
will help finance the first phase of the project which would
open up production of a new ore deposit, El Rhein, to
partially replace the Kedia operations. The main components
are: (i) construction of concentration/beneficiation
facilities to upgrade the low grade ore (30-40 percent Fe)
to an acceptable sinter feed (65 percent Fe); (ii) extension
of the railroad from F'Derik to El Rhein (45 km) and
increase of existing rail capacity and port facilities to
handle 14 million tons of ore per year; (iii) a new power
plant, additional water supply, housing and other auxiliary
facilities and services; and (iv) engineering, project
management and training. The second phase (1986-89) will
open a new mine at Oum Arwagen (12 km east of El Rhein) to
replace the depleting Kedia reserves. It is expected that
SNIM will be able to contribute substantially to financing
the second phase from internal cash generation made possible
by the first phase of development.
The proposed project is crucial to Mauritania's continued
development. By maintaining and developing existing mining
operations, the project would help sustain Government
revenues and foreign exchange inflows and create employment.
In addition, it would ensure the continuing existence of
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



i~~~~~~~~~~~-i 
SNIM, which through its training program, geological re-
search and project promotion, is the main instrument for
the future development of mining activities and industry
in Mauritania.
A potential risk facing the project is the possibility
of delays and additional costs due to renewal of military
activity in the area. To guard against such an eventuality,
the financing plan includes extraordinary contingencies,
although the suspension of military activities since early
July 1978 augurs well for a peaceful settlement. Another
potential risk is that Phase 2 would not be implemented on
schedule, with the consequence that, after exhaustion of the
Kedia reserves, SNIM would only be able to count on a
production of 6 million tpy from Phase 1, and would there-
fore operate below the break-even point. To counter this
threat, the financing plan for the first phase has been
designed so that implementation of the second phase would
not, under reasonably foreseeable circumstances, be retarded
because of financing problems. Furthermore, the financial
projections indicate that over 1983-88 SNIM would generate
cash in excess of the US$187 million projected as its own
contribution to the financing of the second phase. Finally,
the Government committed itself during negotiations not to
use, under any circumstances, SNIM' s accumulated cash
surplus held in the Central Bank for Phase 2 financing. A
timetable for this accumulation has been agreed with the
Bank and calls for the first retention to be made in 1984.



-. iii-
Estimated
Cost:              The total financing required for the proposed project
(Phase 1) is estimated at US$500.7 million equivalent,
of which US$456.1 million is in foreign exchange. A
summary table of cost estimates is shown below:
Foreign       Local       Total
-US$ million-
Mining and Mechanical Equipment
for Beneficiation Plant                        87.2          1.8        89.0
Port and Railroad Equipment                      35.0          0.7        35.7
Power Plant and Main Electrical
Equipment                                      30.3          0.6        30.9
Miscellaneous Plant, Water Supply and
Auxiliary Electrical Equipment                  4.0           -          4.0
Civil. Works, Buildings and Housing              48.6          9.0        57.6
Erection and Installation                        22.4         10.9        33.3
Engineering and Project Management               20.4          1.1        21.5
Preliminary Works and Training                    7.0          2.7         9.7
Total Base Cost (mid-1977 prices)         254.9          26.8      281.7
Physical Contingencies                           24.9          2.7        27.6
Price Contingencies                              99.7         10.4       110.1
Total Fixed Assets                        379.5         39.9       419.4
Incremental Working Capital                      30.0          3.5        33.5
Interest during Construction                     26.6          1.2        27.8
Extraordinary Contingencies                      20.0           -         20.0
Total Financing Required                  456.1         44.6       500.7



- iv-
Financing Plan:                                US$ Million       Percentage
Equity
Kuwait Foreign Trading,
Contracting and Invest-
ment Company                                    40                8
Arab Mining Company                              28                6
Republic of Iraq                                 22                4
Kingdom of Morocco                               20                4
Islamic Development Bank                         10                2
SNIM Retained Cash Generation                    42.7              9
Total Equity                            162.7            33
Loans
Saudi Fund                                       65               13
IBRD                                             60               12
Caisse Centrale                                  50               10
Kuwait Fund                                      45                9
AFESD                                            35                7
EIB                                              30                6
Abu Dhabi Fund                                   20                4
OECF (Japan)                                      16               3
ADB                                              12                2
OPEC Special Fund                                  5               1
Total Loans                             338              67
Total Financing                                   500.7            100



v 
The proposed foreign contributions (US$458 million, including US$120
million in new equity) would cover 100 percent of the estimated foreign exchange
component of the project.
FY 80    FY 81    FY 82    FY 83
---------(US$ million)----------
Estimated
Disbursements:  Annual                   3.0      17.0     28.0      12.0
Cumulative             3.0      20.0      48.0      60.0
Rate of
Return:            The project is expected to yield an economic return of
12 percent
Staff Ap-
praisal Report:   Report No. 2224a-MAU dated June 20, 1979.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPCISED LOAN
TO SOCIETE NATIONALE INDUSTRIELLE ET MINIERE WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR THE GUELBS IRON ORE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Societe Nationale Industrielle et Miniere (SNIM) with the guarantee of the
Islamic Republic of Mauritania for the equivalent of US$60 million to help
finance a project for the continuation of the company's iron ore mining oper-
ation. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 5 years of grace,
with interest at 7.9 percent per annum. The Government of Mauritania would
charge SNIM a guarantee fee of 2.1 percent per annum on the outstanding
amount of the Bank loan, bringing the cost of the loan outstanding to 10 per-
cent per annum. The proposed project would be cofinanced by the following
institutions: (i) Saudi Fund for Development for the equivalent of US$65
miLlion, with a term of 20 years, including 4 years of grace and an interest
rate of 3 percent per annum; (ii) African Development Bank for 10 million units
of account (US$12 million equivalent), with a term of 15 years, including 5
years of grace and an interest rate of 8 percent per annum; (iii) OPEC Special
Fund for the equivalent of US$5 million, interest free for 20 years, including
5 years of grace; (iv) Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique for the
equivalent of US$50 million, representing a direct loan of US$30 million and
US$20 million in suppliers' credits guaranteed by the French Government, with
an average term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace and an interest rate
between 8.5 and 9 percent; (v) European Investment Bank for 25 million units
of account (US$30 million equivalent) on terms similar to those of the ADB
loan, but at an interest rate between 5.25 and 6 percent per annum; (vi) Kuwait
Fund for Arab Economic Development for the equivalent of US$45 million, with a
term of 25 years, including 7 years of grace and an interest rate at 3 percent
per annum; (vii) Arab Fund for Social and Economic Development for the equiva-
lent US$35 million, with a term of 15 years, including 5 years of grace and an
interest rate of 4 percent per annum; (viii) Abu D)habi Fund for the equivalent
of US$20 million on terms identical to those of the Arab Fund   loan; and
(ix) OECF of Japan for the equivalent of US$16 million, with a term of 25
years, including 7 years of grace and an interest rate of 4 percent per annum.
The first three institutions (Saudi Fund for Development, African Development
Bank and OPEC Special Fund) would channel their ftnds through the Government,
while theothers would lend directly to SNIM.  In addition to the loans
described above, equity participation is expected from Kuwait Foreign Trading,
Contracting and Investment Company (US$40 million equivalent), Arab Mining
Company (US$28 million equivalent), the Republic of Iraq (US$22 million
equivalent), the Kingdom of Morocco (US$20 million equivalent), and Islamic
Development Bank (US$10 million equivalent), bringing the total external
funds for the project to US$458 million.
PART I: THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Islamic Republic of Mauritania:  Recent Economic
Developments and External Capital Requirements" (2479a-MAU) dated June 4, 1979



- 2 -
has been distributed to the Executive Directors. Its findings are reflected
in the following assessment of the current situation and prospects of the
economy. Country Data appear in Annex I.
The Setting
3.        With a GNP per capita of US$270 in 1977, Mauritania is not classi-
fied among the "Least Developed Countries" but, in fact, faces the same basic
constraints to development as they do. The standard of living of 80 percent
of the population is among the lowest in the world. Primary school enroll-
ment does not reach 20 percent. Most of the country is desert; agriculture
and livestock herding, which sustain 80 percent of the 1.5 million inhabit-
ants, are limited to a narrow belt of land in the southwest along the northern
bank of the Senegal River; but even there, rainfall is irregular or insuffi-
cient. Some 800 miles away, in the northwest, economic activity centers
around the mining/fish processing complexes of Zouerate and Nouadhibou. The
capital, Nouakchott, lies in between, separated from each of the two economic
centers by 400 miles of desert. Routes linking the agricultural region with
neighboring countries, on the other hand, are often less than 150 miles long.
As a result, there is little interaction between Mauritania's modern and
traditional sectors but considerable economic exchange (not recorded in
official foreign trade statistics) between the latter, the western part of
Mali and the northeastern part of Senegal, which together form a more inte-
grated economic unit. This further accentuates the isolation of Nouakchott,
which was built in the early 1960s in a region deprived of all basic
infrastructure.
4.        Mauritania's main political and economic links have traditionally
been with French speaking African countries south of the Sahara. Recently,
however, it has established close relations with some of its North African
neighbors as well as with the Arab OPEC countries. In June 1972, Mauritania
asked for a revision of its 1961 Cooperation Treaty with France in the
economic, monetary, technical, cultural, and military fields. A new agree-
ment was reached in February 1973, except in monetary affairs. As a result,
Mauritania left the West African Monetary Union and the Franc zone and, with
the financial support of Arab OPEC countries, established in June 1973 its
own Central Bank and introduced its own currency, the Ouguiya (UM). However,
it still maintains good economic relations with France and is a member of the
Economic Community of West Africa and of OMVS (Organisation pour la mise en
valeur du fleuve Senegal).
5.        In 1976, after Spain relinquished its control over the Spanish
Sahara, Mauritania and Morocco divided the administration of the territory
between them, with that part south of the 24th parallel to be administered
by Mauritania. Although the population of the Mauritanian section is esti-
mated at only about 30,000, the extension of Mauritania's administrative
control into this territory was straining the Government's already limited
domestic resources, both financial and human. Except for rich coastal
fishing grounds and minerals yet to be located, the resources of Mauritania's



- 3 -
portion of the former Spanish Sahara are limited; one small advantage per-
mitted Mauritania by the acquisition of this territory has been the reloca-
tion of a few kilometers of the rail line associated with the iron ore mines
in the area -- this allows the ore trains to bypass the Choum Tunnel and adds
slightly to the efficiency of rail operations. The Choum Tunnel remains
open, however, as an alternative for evacuating iron ore. The Polisario
(Front for the Liberation of Spanish Sahara) challenged the partition, and
from 1976 to mid-1978, conducted intensive guerrilla operations against
Morocco and Mauritania.
Recent Developments
6.        During the 1960s, the Mauritanian economy grew at about 10 percent
per year in real terms. This growth was due mainly to the development of
iron ore mining and to the rapid expansion of livestock that resulted from a
successful animal health campaign. Since then, however, growth has slowed
down to less than 2 percent due to a number of unfavorable developments, most
of which were beyond the Government's control. Agricultural output, struck by
a series of severe droughts, stagnated in 1971, fell by more than 40 percent
in 1972 and again, by 20 percent in 1973. Losses of livestock, principally
cattle, amounted to an estimated 30 percent of the herd. All the gains in
per capita income of the rural population achieved in the 1960s were lost
during the drought years. Thousands of farmers and herdsmen who lost their
source of livelihood in rural areas have had to migrate to towns. Unable to
find work in the modern sector, many have turned to the informal sector for
opportunities, or have remained unemployed. A recovery set in around 1974,
and economic activity was slowly returning to normal when the doubling of the
price of petroleum products, together with rises in other import prices, put
pressures on the balance of payments and set the economy on an unprecedented
inflationary path.
7.        Mauritania's capacity to respond to this new situation was limited,
particularly after 1975, when the stagnation of the world steel market started
to affect its main export (iron ore), while the need to maintain and equip a
large national defense effort against the Polisario was absorbing an increasing
portion of scarce resources. More than ever, stabilization of the economy, a
pre-condition for future growth, had to come from abroad. In this respect,
Mauritania has been fortunate to receive substantial foreign assistance in the
past few years. During the period 1973-77, about US$800 million was made
available to the country in response to its growing needs. Most of it came
from Arab OPEC countries and consisted of concessionary loans and grants for
both balance of payments/budget support and project aid, but a sizeable amount
also originated from private banks and foreign suppliers.
8.        The Government used these resources to nationalize the mining sector
in 1974-75, thus bringing under public control the country's major economic
and financial activities. It then started to play a more decisive role in
managing the economy by organizing and directing large investments. Between
1973 and 1977, public investments more than doubled in real terms and reached
UM 10.4 billion (US$232 million), an amount equivalent to 50 percent of GDP.



- 4 -
Most of these investments, however, were concentrated in non-directly produc-
tive sectors such as infrastructure. The few large projects in the industrial
sector were ill-conceived and financed on very hard terms. The most important
ones, a sugar refinery and an oil refinery were completed last year, but
neither can at present be operated profitably and both remain closed for the
time being. As a result, the burden of the external debt sharply increased
while the capacity of the economy to serve it did not.
9.        During 1977 the situation deteriorated sharply.  The drought struck
again and production of millet, the main crop, fell from about 36,000 tons
per year to an estimated 21,000 tons. More than 100,000 tons of grain (main-
ly rice and millet) had to be imported, of which only about a third was
grant-financed.  World market prices for iron ore remained depressed, while
rail evacuation from the mines to the port (650 km) became difficult because
of Polisario attacks, in spite of a large defense effort. As a result, iron
ore exports dropped to US$127 million in 1977, as compared to US$154 million
the year before. To add to the difficulties, budget support from Arab coun-
tries was drastically cut. Reflecting these unfavorable developments, the
resource gap reached US$208 million (47 percent of GDP) and the balance of
payments registered a deficit of US$45 million, which had to be financed by a
drawdown of official reserves. At the end of 1977, for the first time since
independence, net reserves of the Central Bank moved to a negative position.
10.       On the public finance side, the situation was even more disquieting.
Payment arrears of the Treasury accumulated. Despite the adoption of a
revised austerity budget in August 1977, the current deficit, estimated at
US$64 million in 1976, increased to US$90 million in 1977, and the Government
was forced to divert some project aid and to use large advances from the
Central Bank to cover it.
11.       In turn, the Central Bank, faced with a large demand for credit
from the Government, had to impose strict limitations on credit to the pri-
vate sector and to reduce commercial banks' access to rediscounting facili-
ties, apparently bringing many small local enterprises to the brink of
bankruptcy. Though there was an increase in private sector credit in 1977,
this was mostly due to the need to replace with domestic credit a part of
foreign suppliers' credit in the financing of imports. These, which in the
past financed the import trade, were no longer available in 1977.
12.       On July 10, 1978, a bloodless coup d'etat deposed President Moktar
Ould Daddah. The new Government pledged to honor all Mauritania's foreign
and international commitments. The arrival of a new team in power seemed
to have opened the way for new peace initiatives. The Polisario declared
a temporary cease-fire and has so far faithfully observed it. All parties
interested in the Western Sahara question have met during the last ten
months and discussions are apparently continuing.
Rehabilitation Program and Short-Term Outlook
13.       On the economic and financial front, the new Government appears
determined to take hard measures to improve the situation but desperately



- 5 -
needs renewed budget assistance. It has, therefore, officially adopted the
various measures outlined in a program for rehabilitation of the balance of
payments and the current budget that was prepared by the former Government
with Bank assistance. This program, which is consistent with measures being
recommended by the IMF, proposes the consolidation or rescheduling of a
substantial proportion of the Government's external debt (about US$215 mil-
lion), 1/ emphasizes the importance of current budget assistance (about
US$60-65 million a year until the early 1980's) without which the Mauritanian
administration will not be able to function, imposes strict conditions on
Government's future borrowing and tight control of public expenditures, and
recommends drastic changes in public investment priorities.
14.       The new Government has discussed the Rehabilitation Plan on a
bilateral basis with a number of countries and has obtained encouraging
results. Abu Dhabi, France, Kuwait, Libya, Morocco and Saudi Arabia have
pledged to give about US$150 million, most of it as grants for balance
of payments and budget support. About US$80 million have already been dis-
bursed. This substantial inflow of foreign aid, supplemented by the STABEX
compensation for iron ore export shortfalls in 1977 and 1978 and two drawings
on the IMF Trust Fund, have permitted Mauritania to avoid a difficult finan-
cial crisis in 1978.
15.       Concurrent with the search for budgetary assistance, the Government
has started to renegotiate part of its external debt, which reached a very
high level for a country like Mauritania. An agreement, in principle, has
been reached bilaterally with some Arab countries holding loans for which
rescheduling was recommended by the Rehabilitation Plan. The Government is
still renegotiating with Voest Alpine and KFTCIC the terms and conditions of
two hard loans they have granted, which amounted to US$97 million. For debts
held by private banks and former shareholders of MIFERMA (Mines de Fer de
Mauritanie), the Government hopes to avoid direct renegotiations and is trying
to obtain from friendly Governments a soft loan of about US$50 million to
consolidate them.
16.       On the domestic side, the Government macle efforts to reverse the
deteriorating trend of the past. With the exception of debt service pay-
ments, budgetary expenditures in 1978 were kept within the limits set by the
1/   At the end of 1977, Mauritania's external public debt, including undis-
bursed, amounted to US$677 million; US$574 million was contracted by the
Government, US$44 million by the Central Bank of Mauritania, US$50
million by SNIM, and US$9 million by other public enterprises. Debt
rescheduling recommended in the Rehabilitation Plan only concerns the
Government and Central Bank debt as it is expected that SNIM would
generate sufficient cash flow to cover both existing commitments and new
debts contracted for the Guelbs project. The US$215 million include all
Government debts contracted on hard terms and a few large bilateral
loans for which grace periods have expired.



- 6 -
Rehabilitation Plan, while revenues were higher. In 1979, the Mauritanian
authorities intend to pursue the same policy of expenditure restraint, but
will not be able to avoid a liquidity crisis without substantial foreign
assistance. Already a deterioration in the budgetary situation could be
observed during January-March 1979. Tax collection was slow while practically
no budgetary assistance was received. In addition, although current expendi-
tures were budgeted at the level foreseen in the Rehabilitation Plan, impor-
tant non-budgeted equipment purchases were made, bringing total expenditures
in 1979 to UM 11.7 billion, or UM 1.0 billion higher than forecast in the
budget.  The situation is still manageable, however, provided the Government
strictly controls the execution of the budget and sees to it that no other
non-budgetary expenditures are committed. Taking into account the financing
already obtained, the additional external assistance needed to cover the
expected budgetary deficit in 1979 is of the same order of magnitude as
initially foreseen in the Rehabilitation Plan.
17.       The failure to observe budgetary procedures in committing expendi-
tures and the inefficiency of the information system reflect to a certain
extent an unavoidable weakening of Mauritanian administrative services fol-
lowing the change of Government in mid-1978. The new Government is conscious
of the problem and has obtained additional technical assistance from France
to strengthen its administration. To help improve the public finance situ-
ation, it also decided, in line with the Rehabilitation Plan, to:
(i) keep SOMIMA, the copper mine, closed in spite of some
internal pressure, thus saving about US$10 million in
subsidies;
(ii) postpone the start of operations of the oil and sugar
refineries until their profitability is clearly
established;
(iii) limit the creation of new positions for civil servants
and to restrict salary increases to 5 percent per annum
in current terms until 1980;
(iv) take necessary measures to improve tax collection and
combat tax fraud; and
(v) observe strict financial standards in the choice of
its investments; projects that cannot be financially
and economically justified will be dropped.
18.       However, the Government knows that Mauritania's financial situ-
ation will remain precarious until the early 1980s when deceleration of
military expenditures and the projected doubling of iron ore exports enable
it to stabilize its budgetary and balance of payments position. During
the next three to four years, over a third of the budget will have to be



financed from abroad. The risks of a liquidity squeeze are therefore con-
siderable as, even if available, the inflow of foreign assistance may not
match budgetary expenditures. The situation will require constant and
careful monitoring. Improvement of the existing control mechanisms in
order to rapidly detect any deterioration in the situation and take the
appropriate measures to correct it is essential. Continued tight control
of credit and budgetary expenditures will also be necessary. Such a policy
will make the recovery of the private sector more difficult as many private
firms derive their business from Government contracts. However, there is no
other alternative until the position of the Treasury improves.
Strategy and Long-Term Prospects
19.       Financial stabilization is, and will remain for some time to come,
the Government's first priority. However, some attention has also been given
to considering policies that would tackle the deeper seated structural prob-
lems of the economy.
20.       In a substantial reversal of past policies the Government decided
to sharply reduce its role in organizing and directing investments in mining
and basic industry. Given the Government's limited financial means, a new
policy of liberalism and openness towards private foreign investments will
be followed. Thus, Government intends to leave to foreign investors the
initiative and responsibility of implementing the copper sulfide project
and the pellet project and will not guarantee loans which could eventually
be contracted for them. As a consequence, these projects should not create
a burden for the budget or the balance of payments.
21.       With regard to the public investment program, projects included
in the Rehabilitation Plan indicate a clear departure from past policies,
where the main emphasis was on industry and transport development. With the
exception of two large infrastructure projects (the Nouakchott port and the
Kiffa-Nema road), the execution of which has already started, most of the
proposed investments are concentrated in the productive sectors in order to
broaden the economic base and accelerate structural changes necessary for
future growth. The highest priority is given to the continuation of iron ore
exploitation as this activity is (and will remain in the foreseeable future)
the main support of the Mauritanian economy. Indeed, the Guelbs project is
the cornerstone of the Government's Rehabilitation Plan. Without it, all
the efforts to redress the economy (including debt rescheduling) currently
under way would be in vain. The iron ore project will be the main, or pro-
bably, the only public industrial project to be started over the next few
years, while the traditional sectors (agriculture, livestock, and fisheries)
will be given increasing priority.
22.       The most formidable obstacle to this strategy is the scarcity of
well prepared projects. Mauritanian administrative services are inadequately
staffed for project preparation and analysis; many projects for the rural



- 8 -
sector selected by the Government need additional preparatory work to become
economically viable. Equally critical is the lack of project execution
capability. Two IDA financed technical assistance projects to the Ministry
of Planning and to SONADER, the newly created agency in charge of rural
development, should help the Government overcome some of these problems by
providing the key personnel and the needed project preparation expertise.
23.       From 1977 to 1985, the overall growth of the economy could reach
about 3.5 percent per annum, with iron ore mining being the main motor of
expansion. During this period, development of the rural sector will remain
moderate because of the long gestation period of agricultural projects. After
1985, this sector could achieve a growth of about 3.8 percent per annum if
all the large irrigation projects included in the Rehabilitation Plan are
successfully implemented. The increase in real GDP between 1985 and 1990
should be around 3 percent per annum and should result in a slow improvement
in the level of income of the Mauritanian population. These moderate rates
(substantially higher than those recorded in the recent past) show that the
recovery of the Mauritanian economy is possible. It will be a long and dif-
ficult process, however, requiring careful management of available resources
since a substantial investment effort will be demanded from the country around
the mid-1980s in order to continue the Guelbs project (Phase 2). As a result,
savings outside the mining sector will not be able to increase much without
unacceptably reducing private consumption. During the 1978-85 period, most of
the capital needed to achieve the Government's development program (about
US$1.1 billion, including the Guelbs project) would therefore have to come
from abroad. Half of this is already assured. Indeed, the Government has
been very prudent to include in the Rehabilitation Plan only projects that
have already attracted the interest of external donors. Prospects for mobi-
lizing the remainder are relatively good, provided the Government manages to
improve the balance of payments and budget situation. However, considering
the country's general poverty, its strong reliance on a single export product,
and the long gestation period of many of its important projects, Mauritania
can only afford the necessary borrowing if the foreign capital for projects
other than the Guelbs is made available on conditions similar to those
indicated in the Rehabilitation Plan (2 percent interest rate for 40 years,
including 8 years of grace). In addition, general budget austerity imposed
by the present economic conditions will severely limit Government's ability
to put up local funds for its investment program. Foreign donors should be
prepared, therefore, to finance a substantial proportion of the local costs
of the few high priority development projects which will go ahead in the next
few years; indeed, some donors have indicated their willingness to cover
100 percent of the investment costs of such projects in order to give Govern-
ment maximum breathing space during this difficult period, while permitting
development activity to continue. In the medium-term at least, financing of
some recurrent costs linked to development, but non-immediate revenue earning
projects will also be unavoidable.
24.       Assuming that the existing debt is rescheduled or consolidated in
the proportions stated by the Government, the debt service ratio (including
the debt service cushion representing one semi-annual debt service payment to



- 9 -
all Guelbs lenders) would increase from about 16 percent in 1978-79 to a peak
of about 20 percent in 1982-83, when a large monetary deposit of about US$24
million contracted in 1973 by the Central Bank falls due at the same time
Guelbs debts start to mature. Thereafter, the debt service ratio would
probably stabilize around 15-16 percent, a maximum level that Mauritania
must try not to exceed, even in the long-term.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITANIA
25.       The Bank Group has participated in the financing of thirteen opera-
tions in Mauritania. Total lending amounts to US$132.5 million. The first
operation was a Bank loan of US$66.0 million for the MIFERMA iron ore mining
project in 1960. Eleven others are IDA credits totalling US$46.5 million. Four
of these operations are in the transport sector: US$6.7 million in FY66 for
the construction of the Nouakchott-Rosso road; US$3.0 million in FY69 for a
four-year road improvement and maintenance program; US$3 million in FY75 for
another six-year follow-up to the first maintenance program; and US$8 million
in FY76 for the extension of the Nouadhibou Port. Four operations are in the
rural sector: US$4.2 million for livestock development in FY72; US$2.5
million for a drought relief fund project in FY73; US$1.1 million for the
Gorgol irrigation engineering project in FY74; and US$3.5 million in FY77 for
a technical assistance project to SONADER, the Government agency in charge of
preparing and executing rural development projects, particularly those involv-
ing irrigation. One operation is in the education sector amounting to US$3.8
million in FY74; another is a US$2.7 million technical assistance operation
to the Ministry of Planning in FY77; and the last one is an US$8.0 million IDF
project in FY79. In 1968, IFC made a loan to and an equity investment in
SOMIMA, a copper mining company, which totalled US$20 million; this IFC
participation and the accompanying loan were paid back when the Government
nationalized SOMIMA in 1974. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments as of April 30, 1978, as well as
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
26.       Implementation of these projects has often been retarded by cumber-
some Government administrative procedures. The combination of administrative
delays and those due simply to the exceptionally difficult conditions prevail-
ing in Mauritania (very unfavorable climate, huge distances separating the few
population centers, inadequate or nonexistent transport network, and a general
lack of trained manpower) has led, in a period of high inflation and adverse
changes in exchange rates, to cost overruns on many of the projects financed
in the period from FY69 to FY75.  In addition, the difficult financial situa-
tion facing the country has forced the Government to drastically curtail ex-
penditures, including the provision for local funds for its on-going develop-
ment program. The scope of some of these projects has, of necessity, had to
be reduced accordingly in order to stay within the financial package provided.
In the case of the Third Highway Project (Cr. 519-MAU), IDA and Kuwait Fund,
the co-financier, agreed to cover 100 percent of the remaining outlays for a
reduced project.



- 10 -
27.       The Government is acutely aware of the problems it is encountering
in project execution. The two recently approved technical assistance projects
to the Ministry of Planning and to SONADER are an important element of the
Government's program to overcome these problems. By strengthening Govern-
ment's project preparation capacity and by providing for monitoring of project
execution on a more systematic basis, the planning team will help the Govern-
ment anticipate problems in project implementation and take steps to deal
with them before they occur; similarly, the technical assistance provided to
SONADER should help turn it into a strong development agency capable of carry-
ing out a rational investment program for the rural sector. These projects
have made a good beginning, and the staff of the planning team is actively
assisting the Government of Mauritania in the review of its investment program.
28.       In 1970-72, the Bank Group was the third largest donor (providing
about 18 percent of Mauritania's external capital assistance) behind France
(21 percent) and the European Economic Community (19 percent). Given the
rapidly growing external financial assistance available to Mauritania, the
Bank Group's share decreased to about 6 percent in 1977. We are now empha-
sizing technical assistance and coordination of cofinancing arrangements, both
with traditional donors and with Arab OPEC countries and will concentrate our
intervention on a few high priority development projects. With most of the
objectives of the SONADER technical assistance project well on their way to
being achieved, we are considering a project which would open up 3,600 ha for
irrigation for the direct benefit of 4,600 families (about 28,000 people).
This project, the first large-scale irrigation project envisaged in Mauritania,
will bring to fruition efforts we have made in the past few years to develop
the southern part of the country, one of the poorest in the world. Because of
the vital importance of education for the future development of Mauritania,
further Bank involvement in this sector is also envisaged. All projects now
under preparation emphasize institution building, improved management and
project execution.
29.       Bank Group efforts to assist the Government in its development
efforts would be in vain, however, if iron ore mining, the mainstay of the
Mauritanian economy, should come to a close by the late 1980s when the Kedia
reserves presently in exploitation are depleted. The continuous exploitation
of this resource is necessary to finance the development of other sectors,
which would in time constitute a renewable base for economic growth in
Mauritania. The proposed project described in this report is designed to
open up new sources of iron ore and thus enable Mauritania to maintain and
increase production levels made possible by the MIFERMA operation which the
Bank Group helped finance in 1960.



- 11 -
PART III: THE MINING SECTOR
Description of the Sector
30.       Mining is the most important sector of the Mauritanian economy in
terms of contributions to the budget and to exports. It consists primarily of
the exploitation of iron ore and, to a lesser extent, of gypsum and previously
copper. All these activities are carried out by SNIM, initially created as a
100 percent public corporation in 1971. Following the divestiture of SOMIMA
(SNIM's copper division) in April 1978, SNIM was reconstituted as a state-
controlled, limited liability corporation (Societe d'economie mixte), to
permit private and foreign participation.
31.       Iron Ore Operations.  Production of iron ore in Mauritania dates
back to 1953 when Societe Anonyme des Mines de Fer de Mauritanie (MIFERMA),
a company owned predominantly by French, British, German and Italian interests,
started to exploit a high-grade iron ore deposit in the Kedia mountains with
an investment of US$190 million, of which US$66 million was financed by the
Bank. Output, for which the main purchasers were the shareholders themselves,
was originally intended to be 6 million tpy, but as mining proceeded smoothly,
capacity was gradually expanded, attaining about 11.5 million tpy at present.
The most recent significant expansion took place in 1973, when somewhat lower
grade pits were brought into production. The operations are located inland,
at Zouerate, some 650 km east-northeast of Nouadhibou, the port of shipment,
which is connected with the mining town by rail.
32.       Since MIFERMA's nationalization in 1974, the iron mines, which
account for nearly all of the value added of the mining sector, have been
operated by the Complex6\Minier du Nord (COMINOR), SNIM's largest opera-
ting unit. During 1975, while MIFERMA shareholders were negotiating the
terms of nationalization, COMINOR's operations were maintained at a normal
level. In particular, the former shareholders did not interrupt their iron
ore purchases. Most of MIFERMA's expatriate staff also stayed in their
positions. In January 1976, an agreement was reached between the Government
of Mauritania and the former shareholders. It called for a total compen-
sation of US$90 million, of which US$40 million was to be paid in cash and
US$50 million in five annual installments of US$10 million each, starting in
December 1976. The cash payment was made in April 1976 with the proceeds of
a loan contracted by the Government from KFTCIC (Kuwait Foreign Trading,
Contracting and Investment Company). Three of the five installments have
been paid.
33.       Copper Operations.  The Societe des Mines de Mauritanie (SOMIMA)
was created in March 1967 1/ to mine the copper deposits of Akjoujt (200 km
1/   The share capital was distributed as follows:
Charter Consolidated     .............................. 44.6%
Islamic Republic of Mauritania ........................... 22.0%
French Group .       .............................. 18.4%
IFC .                                                         15.0%



- 12 -
northeast of Nouakchott). SOMIMA exploited copper oxide ore and produced
a concentrate based on the TORCO process, which had a very high fuel cost.
Furthermore, the arsenic content of the copper concentrate made marketing
difficult, and the product therefore had to be sold at below world market
prices.
34.       From the commencement of operations in 1971, major technical diffi-
culties were experienced, and most of the time SOMIMA operated at less than
50 percent capacity, turning out a profit (of UM 137 million) only once, in
1973, when copper prices reached an all time peak.
35.       In late 1974, as a result of the increase in fuel prices and
rapidly deteriorating copper prices, the shareholders closed the mine. To
maintain jobs, the Government of Mauritania bought the copper company and
integrated it with SNIM. SOMIMA resumed operations in the second half of
1975, and its continuous high losses seriously affected SNIM's overall finan-
cial position thereafter. As a result, the Government decided to separate
SOMIMA from SNIM in April 1978, and agreed to assume responsibility for losses
and debts SNIM had incurred on SOMIMA's behalf. In May 1978, the copper mine
was closed. While there is a project under consideration to mine the (under-
lying) sulfide ore body and produce blister copper, the Bank has voiced strong
doubts as to whether: (i) the envisioned smelter technique could in fact
produce blister; and (ii) the ore's arsenic contamination could be reduced
to levels which would not seriously impair the marketability of the final
product. For the time being, the project is not going ahead.
36.       Gypsum.  Since 1973, SNIM has been exploiting the large deposits of
gypsum found to the north of Nouakchott. The entire output (roughly 17,000
tpy) is sold to the Rufisque Cement Plant in Senegal as part of an agreement
whereby Senegal purchases Mauritanian gypsum, and, in turn, accords a 12 per-
cent rebate on the price of cement sold in Mauritania.
Organization and Management of the Sector
37.       Since the nationalization of MIFERMA and SOMIMA in 1974-75, all
mining activities have been run by SNIM. Until its reorganization in April
1978, SNIM was directly under the responsibility of the President of Mauri-
tania and was administered by a Board of Supervisors composed of 12 members
representing the various ministries and presided over by the Minister of Plan-
ning and Mines. The new SNIM is to be administered by a Board of Directors,
chaired by a Mauritanian Government official. The Vice Chairman is a repre-
sentative of the foreign shareholders, which include the Arab Mining Company,
the Islamic Development Bank, KFTCIC, the Moroccan Government and the Iraqi
Government.
38.       Besides COMINOR, which generates 90 percent of SNIM's revenues and
constitutes 95 percent of fixed assets, SNIM includes a few minor ventures,
such as: (i) SNIMEX, an explosives factory which is entirely captive to the



- 13 -
iron ore mine; (ii) DCPP (Departement de CommerciaLisation des Produits Petro-
liers), a distribution system for petroleum products, 40 percent of which are
sold to COMINOR; and (iii) the gypsum operations referred to in paragraph 36
above. In 1979, SNIM will start operation of a small steel mill (SNIMACIER),
to smelt COMINOR-generated scrap for the production of rebars for the local
market. SNIM has its head offices and support services in Nouakchott. These
include a technical department for various project studies, a geological
research group, and training facilities. SNIM also holds participations in
a number of firms whose activities are to some extent connected with its own
(construction, engineering, oil products storage, port services, stevedoring,
mining and geological research, etc.).
39.        With a view to strengthening SNIM's management by concentrating its
operations on iron ore exploitation, the Government decided in early 1979 to
separate the gypsum operations and DCPP from SNIM. The Government will ade-
quately compensate SNIM for any resulting loss and has agreed to discuss
with the Bank the level of that compensation.
Financial Situation
40.        SNIM's overall financial position is predominantly determined by
that of COMINOR, which in turn varies closely with the cycles in the world
iron ore market and the general level of economic activity in the major steel
producing countries. In 1973-74, sales and profitability peaked with the
completion of COMINOR's expansion program which increased total production
capacity to 11.5 million tpy and coincided with a very strong demand for
iron ore world-wide. Average FOB prices for Kedia ore further increased
to US$15.6 per ton in 1975. Sales volumes began to decrease, however, as the
first effects of the steel industry recession in the major producing coun-
tries started to be felt. In 1977 and 1978, COMINOR's profitability was
further reduced as export prices dropped respectively by almost US$1 and US$2
per ton on average compared to 1976. Polisario attacks against the mining
town of Zouerate in the spring of 1977 and the frequent disruptions of railway
services until mid-1978 also affected operations. However, while the spring
attack caused an exodus of expatriate workers and forced a temporary shutdown
of mining operation, COMINOR's management was able to accelerate Mauritaniza-
tion, particularly in the crucial maintenance and mining departments, and pro-
duction resumed normally. The savings made on expatriate salaries combined
with better cost control under the pressure of a depressed market actually
resulted in a reduction of operating costs in real terms, as compared to
1976.
41.        COMINOR's financial results were also affected by the tax systemn
which, since 1976 consisted of a 10 percent export tax on FOB sales, regard-
less of the company's actual net profits. The Government established this
system to keep its main source of revenue steady and to avoid dependence on
fluctuating income taxes or dividends. It has decided, however, to change
COMINOR's tax system during the execution period of the Guelbs project (paras.
68 and 82).



- 14 -
42.       Within SNIM, the high profit margin generated by COMINOR has in
the past been offset by losses of certain units. While DCPP, SNIMEX, and
the gypsum plant were generally profitable, SOMIMA's substantial cash short-
falls (US$12 million per annum from 1975 to 1977) and the heavy expenditures
of SNIM's central organization on activities not related to iron ore (such
as the development of a new scrap based mini-steel mill) drained away a large
portion of COMINOR's cash generation. Despite this, SNIM has remained profit-
able and has recorded a net loss only twice, in 1977 and 1978, due principally
to COMINOR's low profits in the face of security problems and the initial
effects of SNIM's ambitious program started in 1975 to develop and diversify
its central organization. SNIM has now agreed to reduce overall expenditures
and has presented a comprehensive program to substantially cut overhead costs
over a four-year period (para. 86).
Contribution of the Mining Sector to the Economy
43.       Iron ore mining by COMINOR is the mainstay of the Mauritanian
economy and its development throughout the 1960s has been the principal
determinant of the country's rapid economic growth. By the mid-1970s,
COMINOR directly accounted for 21 percent of Mauritania's GDP at factor
cost, and 80 percent of its exports. It is the second largest employer in
the country after the Government (with a total of about 4,800 workers), and
provides about 25 percent of total public revenues. Aside from these direct
contributions, iron ore mining also supports a host of other economic activi-
ties in Mauritania. Moreover, the continuous exploitation of this resource
is necessary to finance the development of other sectors, which would in time
constitute a renewable base for the country's economic growth.
44.       Impact on GDP.  Though COMINOR directly accounts for 21 percent of
GDP at factor cost, its total contribution is considerably higher, for iron
ore mining has a substantial indirect impact on the overall economic activity.
Many industrial and construction enterprises work mainly, or exclusively, for
COMINOR; mining also creates -- directly or indirectly -- local value added
amounting to about 25 percent of public utilities, commerce, transport, and
services; finally, since mining accounts for one-quarter of total current
public revenues directly, it provides the means for substantial expenditures
in the services sector. Taken together these indirect impacts amount to 10
percent of GDP, thus bringing the total contribution of iron ore mining to
GDP to about 31 percent. On the other hand, were the iron ore mines to close
(i.e. were the Guelbs project not to be executed and the current Kedia opera-
tions to cease), the ensuing reduction in GDP would almost certainly be more
severe than these calculations would indicate, as the resultant excess capacity
in the services sector would lead to uneconomic levels of operation, and so to
a further reduction in value added. In addition, there would be multiplier
effects on demand for public and private services, as both Government and
private spenders would be forced to reorder the uses of their remaining dis-
posable incomes.
45.       Beyond the reduction in GDP, a closing of the iron ore mines would
also cause a de facto destruction of the present capital stock in both the



- 15 -
mining and services sectors, as most of these investments would become obso-
lete long before a comparable source of income (and so demand for their
services) could be generated.
46.       Public Revenues Effects.  In 1976, total taxes received from COMINOR
amounted to US$26.9 million, or 29 percent of total public revenues. Of
these, taxes on iron ore sales amounted to US$15.9 million, while US$9 million
related to personal income tax; the remainder was generated by miscellaneou?;
taxes. As noted above, a substantial part of the income of employees and
enterprises in public administration, public utilities, commerce, and services
is supported by taxes on iron ore mining. Therefore, aside from the direcL
contribution of iron ore mining to Government revenues, a closure of the mines
would cause a further decrease in Government revenues, as the taxes on the
personal incomes of the people affected would decline, along with the taxes on
the imports related to these incomes. The income tax base in Mauritania is
extremely narrow, consisting only of the public sector and a relatively
small number of private firms, many of which work directly with COMINOR.
47.       Balance of Payments Effects.  At present, iron ore exports account
for 80 percent of Mauritania's foreign exchange earnings. Even assuming a
major expansion in fish exports, iron ore would still represent 70 percent of
exports of goods and non-factor services for sometime to come. The continua-
tion of iron ore production is therefore essential in maintaining Mauritania's
capacity to import the intermediate and capital goods required for the devel-
opment of the country. If iron ore exports were to disappear, only a substan-
tial devaluation would permit Mauritania to balance its external accounts.
Such a devaluation would have further severe disruptive effects on development
because of the resultant sharp changes in relative factor prices, and the
likelihood that foreign exchange rationing would have to be introduced in
order to secure essential imports. It is also likely that the remaining
foreign exchange earnings would be insufficient to cover the food bill, as
50 percent of Mauritania's food requirements are imported.
48.       Employment Effects.  Iron ore operations currently provide 4,300
direct jobs to Mauritanians. These, in turn, sustain the entire population
of Zouerate (30,000) along with a substantial proportion of that of Nouadhi-
bou (also about 30,000) where the only other industry -- fishing -- directly
employs less than 1,000 workers. The closure of the iron ore mines would,
therefore, directly affect between 40-50,000 people. Furthermore, as dis-
cussed above, if mining accounts for a third of service sector value added,
then probably about a third of employment in the services sector, or 6,500
jobs, would be lost. Employment in public administration would also be
affected, as a large component of the civil servants' salary bill is supported
by taxes on iron ore mining. The repercussions on the economy of a loss of
employment of this magnitude would be difficult to exaggerate. Resettling
these individuals in some other part of the country and finding them alter-
native emp,oyment would be difficult. There are no significant altcrnatives
in industry, while the scarcity of farmland precludes agriculture as a viable
alternative and would require investments in housing and social services
which are beyond the Government's means. The displacement of such a large
part of the modern sector labor force would also most likely have severe
political and social ramifications.



- 16 -
Role of the Bank Group
49.       In 1960, when the Bank Group helped start the MIFERMA operation it
was apparent that, although the Kedia reserves were adequate, new mines would
eventually have to be opened to continue making use of the large infrastruc-
ture investments, notably the 650 km railway and port facilities. From the
outset, the possibility of developing the "Guelbs" (a number of iron ore out-
croppings located in the proximity of the present operations) was explored.
This exploration work was largely carried out in the 1970's and a suitable
project to replace the declining Kedia operations was identified.
50.       The Bank has closely followed the preparation of the Guelbs project
since receiving the first feasibility study in 1976. The support it has given
to the project has been instrumental in mobilizing the necessary external
financing and is considered both by the Mauritanian authorities and by the
co-lenders as essential in ensuring the successful completion of this diffi-
cult undertaking.
PART IV: THE PROJECT
Background
51.       In 1976 the Mauritanian Government and SNIM requested the Bank to
help finance the Guelbs project. A Bank identification mission in January
1977 was followed by an appraisal mission in October 1977, which was joined
by representatives of most of the future co-lenders; six co-lenders meetings
were convened between 1977 and 1979 to develop a viable financial plan.
Several post-appraisal missions discussed organizational issues, reviewed
SNIM's financial performance and the impact of guerilla activity on projected
cash flows and examined the structure of security arrangements required by
the Bank and some other donors. Negotiations were held in Paris from
February 26 to March 6, 1979 and in Nouakchott, Mauritania, from May 2-8, 1979
with a Mauritanian delegation headed by Mr. Ahmed Ould Zein, Minister of
Industry and Mines. Representatives of African Development Bank, Arab Fund
for Economic and Social Development, Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique,
European Investment Bank, Islamic Development Bank, Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development (also representing OPEC Special Fund), Overseas Economic
Cooperation Fund of Japan, Saudi Fund for Development, and SNIM's foreign
shareholders (Arab Mining Company, Kuwait Foreign Trading, Contracting and
Investment Company and Islamic Development Bank) attended the negotiations
in Paris. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 2224a-MAU dated June 20, 1979)
is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
52.       The Guelbs project consists of opening two new mines in order
(i) to replace the declining production of the Kedia deposits, which will be
totally exhausted by 1991, and (ii) to increase production capacity from 11.5
million to about 14 million tpy by 1984. The project will be implemented in
two phases. The first phase (1979-82) will bring a new ore body, El Rhein
(located 22 km northeast o0 Zouerate) inito production. Since this ore body



- 17 -
is of a lower grade than that of Kedia, major capital expenditures are
required. The second phase (1986-89) will open a new mine at Oum Arwagen
(located 12 km east of El Rhein). This report deals primarily with the first
phase, which the proposed Bank loan would help finance. Since implementation
of the second phase is essential to maintain the projected output of 12-14
million tpy and to assure the continued financial viability of SNIM, the
financing plan for the first phase has been designed to facilitate the imple-
mentation of the second phase. The latter is expected to be financed by an
appropriate combination of internal cash generation and external financing
(largely on commercial terms).
Project Description
53.       The first phase of the project would essentially consist of the
following items:
(a) opening the El Rhein deposits;
(b) constructing the proposed concentration/beneficiation
facilities;
(c) extending the railroad to El Rhein and increasing the
capacity of existing rail and port facilities;
(d) providing power, water supply, roads, buildings, housing
and other auxiliary facilities and services; and
(e) engineering, project management and training.
54.       The overall mineralogy of the Guelbs ore is simple.  It consists
of a blend of coarse and fine magnetite, as well as coarse and fine hematite
(referred to by SNIM as oxidized ore). Following extensive mineralogical
studies, laboratory and semi-industrial tests were carried out in France, the
US, UK, Canada, Germany and Japan. Because of insufficient water resources
at the prospective mining site, a dry milling process has been chosen for
which successful tests were obtained from Aerofall Mills Ltd. of Canada.
Also, Swedish and French tests established that low-intensity, magnetic
separators were probably best suited for developing a successful flow sheet.
To supplement the earlier laboratory work, a pilot plant was erected in
Zouerate in June 1974, to: (i) treat separately all major ore types; (ii)
determine the mix between magnetic and oxidized ores; and (iii) produce
sufficient concentrates for the testing campaign in Europe and Japan, which
ascertained the suitability of Guelbs sinter feed for the blast furnace.
55.       Mining at El Rhein, as in the existing Kedia operations, will be
done in open pits. Primary crushing will be done at the El Rhein crushing
yard. Beneficiation will be necessary to upgrade the iron content in the
crude ore from about 38 percent to 65 percent in the concentrates. This will
be achieved by dry grinding with aerofall mills followed by concentration with



- 18 -
magnetic separators. The concentrates will be transported from the El Rhein
plant to F'Derik on a new 45 km railway line linking the new operation to the
existing rail system.
56.       During Phase 1 (1979-82), transport requirements will increase
to 14 million tons of ore per year. This will necessitate the purchase of
four additional main locomotives and 293 ore wagons, as well as the construc-
tion of additional minor maintenance facilities in Nouadhibou. A number of
modifications will be made to the existing port handling and loading system
in order to obtain the loading capacity required. The main acquisition here
will be a new shiploader with a capacity 44 percent greater than that of the
existing unit. The latter will, however, be retained to provide standby capa-
city.
57.       The bulk of the new power will be consumed by the grinding (aero-
fall mills) operation, and the beneficiation plant. Additional power is also
required for the electric shovels, for workshops and services and for the
township. Since the generator station of Zouerate is worn out, a new power
station with associated standby facilities will be built. Peak power during
the first phase will be 34 MW.
58.       The supply of water for social as well as industrial purposes is of
great importance in this part of Mauritania. Nouadhibou is supplied with
water by pipeline from a strong aquifer at Boulanouar some 80 km east of the
town along the railway line, while Zouerate gets its water from a number of
producing wells along the Kedia mountains. These supplies are based on
fossil, and, to a lesser extent, renewable water resources. A detailed
drilling program has been initiated to develop the requisite water resources
during the Guelbs exploitation period. Currently proven water reserves will
cover the Guelbs operation's requirements for a period of 30 years. The
company will be asked to furnish the Bank with annual reports describing the
existing water reserves and its prospecting efforts for developing new ones
(Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
59.       A new road linking Zouerate with El Rhein will be constructed during
Phase 1. An additional 528 housing units will be required in the mining town
of Zouerate to accommodate the additional manpower needed for the project.
60.       The pollution generated by SNIM's iron ore operations is not signi-
ficant. Dust generation at the port can be at times severe, but prevailing
winds tend to blow the dust towards the open sea. There is a covenant in
the loan agreement to the effect that SNIM should continue to operate its
installations with due regard to ecological and environmental safety stan-
dards, and to carry out a long-term study on the effects of dust inhalation
by the workers in order to determine whether adequate protection exists.
The Company will report annually to the Bank on dust levels, and if needed,
suitable equipment will be installed to protect the workers. (Section 4.03(b)
of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 19 -
Project Cost
61.       Total financing requirements for Phase 1 of the Guelbs project
are estimated at US$500.7 million, of which US$456.1 million is in foreign
exchange. This total includes equipment and construction costs, engineering,
start-up expenses, physical, price and extraordinary contingencies, incre-
mental working capital and interest during construction. The project will
be exempt from import duties.
62.       Equipment costs have been derived from 1976 estimates prepared by
SNIM and SOCOMINE, a French consulting firm hired by SNIM to help prepare
and execute the project, and were updated to mid-1977 prices. Costs for civil
works, transportation and erection are based on works recently undertaken by
SNIM including the recent expansion of the Kedia deposits. Costs of the
railway extension are estimated on the basis of ongoing experience in track
replacement and recent realignment works of some sections. Physical contin-
gencies amount to a total of about 10 percent of base costs. Price contin-
gencies have been estimated on the basis of projected annual price increases
of 8 percent for 1977-79 and 7 percent thereafter. An additional extra-
ordinary contingency of US$20 million has been added to reflect the parti-
cular circumstances under which the project is to be implemented. Incremental
working capital requirements, estimated at US$33.5 million, have been cal-
culated on the basis of SNIM's historical needs, given the projected imple-
mentation schedule.
63.       Capital costs of Phase 2 (to be carried out over the period
1986-89) have been estimated on the same basis, at US$436.9 million in
current terms. In addition, during the transition period between Phases 1
and 2, SNIM will purchase about US$36.8 million of additional equipment.
Total fixed assets (i.e. base cost plus physical contingencies) for Phases
1 and 2 would be approximately US$517 million in mid-1977 terms, represent-
ing a cost per ton of concentrates produced of about US$37. This compares
favorably with a number of other recent projects in Australia and South
Africa and may to a large extent be attributed to the fact that the Guelbs
project will use existing railroad and port facilities and therefore requires
limited new investments in infrastructure.
Financing Plan
64.       The total financing required for Phase 1 will be financed by SNIM's
internal cash generation (US$42.7 million), additional share capital (US$120
million) and long-term loans (US$338 million). The additional share capital
will be subscribed by KFTCIC (US$40 million), Arab Mining Company (US$28
million), the Iraqi Government (US$22 million), the Moroccan Government (US$20
million), and the Islamic Development Bank (US$10 million). About US$77
million, representing the totality of the issue premium and 25 percent of the
nominal value is expected to be paid in very shortly. The remaining 75
percent of the nominal value will be paid in according to the project's
expected requirement timetable. The share capital of the Mauritanian Govern-
ment in the new SNIM is 72 percent.



- 20 -
65.       Long-term loans are provided by the Saudi Fund (US$65 million),
the French Caisse Centrale (US$50 million), the Kuwait Fund (US$45 million),
the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development (US$35 million), the Abu
Dhabi Fund (US$20 million), the European Investment Bank (US$30 million),
Japan OECF (US$16 million), the African Development Bank (US$12 million),
the OPEC Special Fund (US$5 million) and the World Bank (US$60 million). The
proposed Bank loan would be made directly to SNIM at the prevailing interest
rate, plus a guarantee fee payable to the Mauritanian Government to bring
SNIM's total financial charges to 10 percent per annum. The Bank loan would
cover 13 percent of the project's foreign exchange cost.  The foreign exchange
risk would be borne by SNIM.
66.       The loans from the Saudi Fund, African Development Bank and OPEC
Special Fund, which are made to the Government, will be onlent to SNIM in
foreign exchange and under the same terms. Effectiveness of foreign loans
aggregating US$265 million and satisfactory assurances that loans representing
the remaining US$73 million will be forthcoming are conditions of loan effec-
tiveness (Section 7.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). The Bank accepted this
solution in order not to delay project implementation because of administra-
tive problems in the processing of certain loans, and in view of the fact
that not all financing is required from the outset.
67.       The proposed long-term foreign loans, adding up to US$338 million,
would cover 74 percent of foreign exchange costs of the project (or 68 per-
cent of total capital costs). Together with externally-financed additional
equity, they would cover 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of the
project (or 91 percent of total costs). However, during the period 1979-82
SNIM will also have to expend some US$51 million on new investments and
replacements for the Kedia operations as well as repay existing debt. There-
fore, SNIM's internal cash generation during this period is critical to the
success of the project. In addition, slippage and/or cost overruns could
increase the financing requirements substantially, even though the above
estimates are considered reasonable and include normal and extraordinary
contingencies. In similar projects elsewhere, financially strong share-
holders have been asked to provide unlimited cost overrun commitments or
at least guarantee overrun financing for 30-40 percent of the base cost.
In this case, however, a completion guarantee is only provided by the Gov-
ernment (Section 2.03 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). Assurances of
project completion are nevertheless deemed to be satisfactory since by the
end of Phase 1, SNIM's accumulated cash surplus should be substantial, and
the company's overall financial position should permit it to raise additional
long-term debt should the Bank deem such borrowings appropriate. Further-
more, the commitment of certain shareholders and lenders to the project and
to Mauritania is such that, even without a formal commitment, they would con-
sider themselves obligated to maintain SNIM's financial viability on which
the Mauritanian economy depends.
68.       To ensure that SNIM will generate the cash necessary both for its
contribution to project financing and for recurrent replacement costs, the
Government agreed during negotiations to reduce the tax levied on iron ore
from 10 percent of FOB value to between 5 and 7 percent (according to volume)
during the first phase of the project. This arrangement will permit SNIM
to save about US$7 million per annum until 1983. However, given the



- 21 -
Government's difficult financial situation, the Bank and the other lenders
have accepted that, subject to the approval of two representatives of the lenders
(of which one would be the Bank), the tax Levied on iron ore may be reviewed on
an annual basis in light of the company's actual financial situation. During
negotiations the Government also agreed to defer a certain proportion of
SNIM's tax payments, thus increasing the company's retained earnings, should
cost overruns require additional funds. (Such provision is to be made in
the Convention Particuliere referred to in para. 82 of this report.)
Project Implementation
69.       The project will be executed by SNIM and SOCOMINE, the French con-
sulting firm that has been contracted by SNIM to be responsible for overall
design, construction supervision, start-up and commissioning of the project,
as well as assistance during the first years of operations. SOCOMINE's
senior management staff were all managers in MIFERMA and they are very
familiar with the technical and managerial issues to be handled during the
project implementation. However, considering the project's size and SOCOMINE's
relatively small manpower of 18 professionals, the consultant and SNIM have
been led to seek assistance from three other well-known French consultant
groups (SOFRESID, SGTE and FCB) for specific technical, engineering and super-
vision tasks. Furthermore, it has been agreed during negotiations that an
expert committee will be established to assist in the supervision of those
steps in the execution of the project which require a high degree of technical
expertise (such as the detailed engineering for the aerofall mills). Even-
tually, to guarantee that the fullest attention is given to the project,
SNIM has accepted to ensure that SOCOMINE will not take on any additional
major engagements during project implementation. The cost per man-month
for SOCOMINE's consultants is estimated at US$6,500, and the total cost of
SOCOMINE's services, including the cost of subcontracts to SOFRESID, SGTE
and FCB, at US$6.7 million per annum.
70.       The project management contract between SOCOMINE and SNIM foresees
completion of all the physical work and delivery on January 1, 1983. This
date is imposed by the long construction and erection time of the aerofall
mills and supposes that orders for this critical item as well as the gener-
ating sets can be placed by early September 1979. A definitive implementation
plan, and a detailed critical path schedule are being worked out by SOCOMINE
and will be presented to the Bank shortly.
Procurement and Disbursement
71.       Procurement for the project will be carried out in accordance with
the rules of the lending agencies, which generally require international
competitive bidding. As a result, packages representing at least 85 percent
of total project cost will be subject to international competitive bidding.
Preparation of the bid documents is being carried out by SOCOMINE and the
other consultants, who will assist SNIM in evaluating bids and in negotiating
contracts. Procurement has been divided into 18 packages, separating supply
of imported equipment from construction work in Mauritania. These arrange-
ments, previously used by SNIM on other works, appear best-suited for this



- 22 -
kind of project in Mauritania. Financing will be mostly in parallel, with
the exception of (i) CCCE and OPEC Special Fund which will be jointly financ-
ing part of the beneficiation plant and (ii) Kuwait Fund and Arab Fund for
Economic and Social Development which will be jointly financing their
packages.
72.       The Bank loan will finance US$50.3 million on the following equip-
ment items, all in foreign exchange and all to be procured under international
competitive bidding or international shopping procedures in line with the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines: (i) all ore-handling equipment in the bene-
ficiation plant; (ii) miscellaneous equipment in the beneficiation plant;
(iii) railroad ore wagons to transport ore on the main line; and (iv) the
civil works contract. The latter covers the total foreign cost of contrac-
tors, equipment, and back-up maintenance personnel. Local labor input will
be minimal and the cost will be borne by SNIM. International shopping for
Bank financed items is not expected to exceed US$2.0 million. The list of
items to which international shopping will apply, has been agreed with the
Bank. None of the equipment items in the project are produced locally and,
therefore, no local suppliers will be prequalified for items on the Bank
list. For the civil work contracts, local contractors might be interested
in bidding. However, because of the large size of the venture it is likely
that the local contractors could only participate through a joint venture
with established foreign enterprises. Depending on the terms of the venture,
it will have to be determined, following Bank guidelines, whether the joint
contractors would be entitled to the usual 7.5 percent preference granted
to local contractors in the evaluation of bids.
73.       Financing of the railroad ore wagons will be shared between the
OECF (Japan) under untied financing, and the Bank. Since the OECF procure-
ment guidelines require that the bid price, as well as the final contract,
be quoted in Yen, the wagons will be financed in parallel. This should not
be difficult since the cars are to be procured in several lots, starting
in 1979 through 1981, according to a standard design, and the lots can be
structured so as to accommodate the earmarked amounts of the two institutions.
74.       The Bank loan will also finance interest during construction
(approximately US$9.7 million). This is justified by the need to relieve
Mauritania and SNIM from paying hard currency during a critical period; in
addition, during the first three years of implementation of Phase 1, virtually
all of SNIM's cash generation will be used to finance the project's local
costs and other investments in Kedia, as well as to repay existing debt.
75.       The Bank loan is estimated to be disbursed against 100 percent of
foreign expenditures, except for the civil works contract should it be won by
a Mauritanian firm, according to the following schedule: US$8 million in
1980, US$25 million in 1981, US$25 million in 1982 and US$2 million in 1983.
Market Prospects
76.       Like most major commodities, the iron ore market fluctuates between
high and low cycles of about 5 years. Studies prepared by the Bank and other
institutions indicate that the present soft iron ore market should slowly



- 23 -
improve during the next year or two as the steel industry gradually recovers
from the current recession. During the 1980s, a fairly balanced supply and
demand situation is expected to prevail until around 1985, when the possi-
bility of oversupply may once again develop as current mine investments start
production. In such a market situation, the Guelbs project should not,
however, experience serious marketing problems, since the additional iron ore
supply that the project will introduce onto the world market is very small
(3-4 million tpy, or less than 1 percent of total world exports). SNIM's
competitiveness over many other iron ore producers is also enhanced by a
freight advantage in the European market. Presently, the Kedia hematite
ores, in the form of both natural fines and lumpy material, constitute well-
established sinter and direct blast furnace feeds in Europe and, more recently
in Japan. This production will be gradually replaced by the Guelbs self-
fluxing magnetic sinter feed, which shows comparable, if not superior, proper-
ties when compared to currently used European and Japanese ore feeds in terms
of fuel savings on the sinter strand and productivity gains in the blast
furnace. As it is now expected that the demand for prime sinter will grow
in the EEC and Japan (SNIM's main markets), the small disadvantage for the
company of marketing a new product should be more than compensated by the good
characteristics of the Guelbs concentrates. SNIM's marketing efforts will be
facilitated by the good relationships it has with its traditional clients,
particularly the reputation reliability which the company enjoys among iron
ore producers. Letters of intent and expressions of interest from prospective
buyers covering more than 50 percent of the future Guelbs production have
already been obtained.
77.       The price projections used in the financial analysis take into
account the cyclical behavior of the market, including the possibility of
oversupply at the end of the 1980s. Thus, from a level of US$15.2/ton in
1977, prices for Kedia ore in real terms are expected to drop in
1979, but would gradually recover and rise to 1977 levels (US$15.2/ton) in
the mid-1980s. Thereafter, they would decline again during the low cycle to
about US$13.1/ton in 1989. A similar pattern of price changes has been
retained for the Guelbs ore, but around a higher base price (US$16.9/ton in
constant 1977 terms) because of the higher iron content. The Guelbs ore is
in fact likely to command an additional premium due to the magnetic character-
istics of two-thirds of its output. This, however, has not been taken into
account in the financial projections.
Local Sales
78.       SAMIA, a Mauritanian company with a participation of KFTCIC, is
currently considering the possibility of erecting a pellet plant with a
capacity of about 2 million tpy to supply Qatar, Iraq and possibly later on
Saudi Arabia with direct reduction pellets. The plant has been designed to
use Guelbs magnetite as feed. However, since SAMIA's ore requirements would
represent a sizeable proportion of Guelbs magnetite production, the requirement
of the pellet plant might affect SNIM's marketing. Therefore, discussions are
planned between SAMIA and SNIM in order to ensure that SNIM's marketing strat-
egy is not affected. In any event, it has been agreed with Government and SNIM
during negotiations that SNIM will always sell its products at world market



- 24 -
prices and in return for convertible foreign exchange and that SNIM will not
enter into any contract or marketing arrangement which would preclude it
from maximizing its sales revenues and profits.
Financial Analysis
79.       Separate projections have been made for SNIM's iron ore operations
(COMINOR) and for the rest of SNIM. These have then been consolidated into
financial statements and cash flow projections for SNIM as a whole.
COMINOR
80.       COMINOR's production and sales of iron ore are projected to increase
from a low level of about 6.5 million tons in 1978 (due to the cumulative im-
pact of inadequate maintenance and guerrilla activity early last year) to
reach an average of 12-13 million tons after completion of the first phase,
with a peak of 14 million tons in 1984 when the gradual recovery of the steel
industry should result in a more balanced relationship between world demand
and supply of iron ore.
81.       Projections of operating costs were prepared in 1976 by SNIM and
SOCOMINE and updated for the last time in early 1979. In this context, it
should be noted that following improvement in operations and cost control
combined with a substantial reduction in expatriate manpower, some operating
costs were lower in real terms in 1977 than during the two previous years. On
the other hand, guerrilla activity in late 1977 and early 1978 had a negative
impact on maintenance costs. It has been assumed that operations will return
to normal in early 1979.
82.       Since 1976, COMINOR has been exempted from income tax but has been
subject to an export tax of 10 percent on FOB sales instead; while SNIM's
other units have been charged taxes proportional to sales. Under the draft
Convention Particuliere to be finalized between Government and SNIM, all these
charges will be replaced by a single tax on iron ore exports for a period of
20 years. For the period 1978-83, this export tax will be equal to a certain
percentage that increases with the volume of exports, according to a series of
simple formulae. Basically, these imply a levy of about 5.0 percent of FOB
value on exports of up to six million tons p.a., roughly 5.5-6.0 percent on
total exports of up to 10 million tons, and 6.5-7.0 percent on exports of up to
14 million tons p.a. For the year 1984 and thereafter, this will be replaced
by a single rate of 10 percent of FOB value, regardless of sales volume. SNIM
is not subject to import duties but does pay miscellaneous taxes on goods,
personnel and services, which together amount to roughly 3 percent of the FOB
ore export value. These taxation arrangements were confirmed during negotia-
tions. The signing of the Convention Particuliere satisfactory to the Bank
between the Government and SNIMl describing the fiscal, economic, and legal
conditions under which SNIM will operate is a condition of loan effective-
ness (Section 7.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
83.       While COMINOR's projected results fluctuate widely, on the whole,
performance is expected to be satisfactory and SNIM should have generated a



- 25 -
cumulated cash surplus of about US$69 million by 1982 and US$113 million by
1983, providing a major potential source of financing for any unforeseen
cost overruns.
84.       Phase 2 of the Guelbs project is projected to be financed by US$250
million in new loans from official development institutions and suppliers'
credits, the balance (about US$187 million) being derived from COMINOR's
internal cash generation. Even after having contributed this amount, SNIM's
cumulated cash surplus is projected to increase by a further US$138 million
in current terms between 1983-90. During the same period, SNIM's debt
service coverage ratio is projected to be on average about 2.0 and its debt
equity ratio is not expected to exceed 50:50. However, if revenues from iron
ore sales were to fall below the levels assumed for the period 1979-90 by a
mere 5 percent on average, SNIM's projected cumulated cash surplus of US$207
million (after Phase 2 financing) for the same period would be almost wiped
out. On the other hand, given the conservative export prices and sales
volumes assumed in the projections, such an event is thought most unlikely,
so no major financial difficulties threaten the implementation of Phase 2.
Finally, if worst came to worst, SNIM's financial situation could be remedied
by deferring the export tax for some years.
Other SNIM Units
85.       The new mini-steel mill plant will start production in 1979.  Out-
put -- primarily reinforcement bars for construction -- is expected to reach
10,000 tons in 1980, most of this is to be sold on the local market. Pro-
duction and sales of SNIMEX, the explosives factory, will be dominated by
COMINOR's explosives requirements. Gypsum production, for export to Senegal,
is projected at about 17,000 tons per year until 1979. Starting in 1980, an
additional 26,000 tons per year will be extracted for sale at cost to a new
plaster project, in which SNIM is to have a minority holding. Sales of
petroleum products by DCPP are expected to increase at about 4 percent per
annum until the late 1980s; and the proportion of its sales going to other
SNIM units -- currently 55 percent -- is expected to decrease as the local
market outside SNIM develops. As already mentioned in para. 39, these last
two units will eventually be divested from SNIM.
86.       SNIM has recently prepared a reorganization and streamlining pro-
gram which is to be implemented over four years, gradually generating, by
the end of the period, recurrent cost savings in the central organization of
30-40 percent compared to 1977-78 levels. At negotiations, SNIM committed
itself to implement this program and to review its results with the Bank from
time to time (Section 4.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).  Costs other than
operating costs consist primarily of additional expenditures for the com-
pletion of the Head Office building in 1978, and expenditures on special
studies, research, exploration and training.
87.       Repayment of loans pertaining to SNIM units other than COMINOR,
relate primarily to a US$2 million loan for the office building, loans total-
ling US$3.6 million for the training centers, a US$2.4 million equivalent
soft-term loan from Abu Dhabi, and a US$5.5 million suppliers' credit for



- 26 -
the steel project. In addition, other miscellaneous loans totalling about
US$5 million were outstanding at the end of 1978. A further US$4.2 million
of committed loans is expected to be disbursed to other SNIM units in 1979,
while a US$5 million revolving credit from UBS is expected to be renewed
in 1980.
88.       In early August 1978, the Government and SNIM reached agreement on
the financial separation of SOMIMA and the liquidation of miscellaneous debts
(advances made by SNIM in favor of the refinery, plus compensation payments
to the former shareholders of MIFERMA, less SNIM outstanding tax liabilities).
The terms of this agreement constitute a significant effort by the Government
to put SNIM on a sound financial footing, and may be summarized as follows:
(i) SOMIMA's long-term debts disbursed after January 1, 1978 and SOMIMA's
current expenses paid by SNIM after the separation will be taken over by the
State; and (ii) US$30.8 million -- representing the balance as of January 1,
1978 of the net State debt to SNIM referred to above plus payables owed by
SOMIMA to SNIM -- will be paid back by the Government over the period 1978-85.
This has been confirmed with the Government during negotiations (Section 3.04
of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
89.       It has been further agreed that the US$39.5 million equivalent that
SNIM has outstanding in the form of overdrafts with a consortium of local
banks will be repaid in 1979. Effective repayment of these bank overdrafts
or conclusion of other satisfactory agreements to this effect to permit SNIMI
to meet the current ratio test referred to in para. 92 will be a condition of
effectiveness (Section 7.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
90.       The Government has agreed that SNIM will not have to cover any of
the compensation payments pertaining to the nationalization of MIFERMA, either
directly to the shareholders or as repayment of loans contracted by the Govern-
ment to cover previous payments. This has been confirmed during negotiations
(Section 3.04 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
91.       Although COMINOR dominates SNIM (iron ore sales are projected to
constitute roughly 80 percent of SNIfI total revenues throughout), SNIM's
financial situation will continue to be adversely affected by the results of
its other units. DCPP, SNIMEX and the gypsum plant are all forecast to have
a positive contribution margin. That of the steel plant, on the other hand,
is expected to be negative during its first years of operation (1979-83), as
the normal losses of the learning process are compounded by the heavy debt
service on the suppliers' credits and commercial bank loans obtained to
finance it. The steel plant is projected to become eventually a profitable
operation after repayment of the hard loans in 1982-83. Until 1986, however,
even with a positive contribution from the steel plant, the net margin gene-
rated by SNIM's other units will not be sufficient to cover the head office
and support services expenditures they require. During the critical period
1979-82, SNDI's net consolidated cumulative cash surplus is projected to
amount to US$69 million. However, it is expected to reach US$138 million
during the period 1983-90 (net of the projected US$187 million contribution
of COMINOR to Phase 2). Moreover, with an average debt service coverage



- 27 -
ratio above 2.0, and a projected maximum debt: equity ratio of 50:50 through-
out the period 1979-82, SNIM should be able to borrow additional funds for
Phase 1 cost overruns, should this prove to be necessary.
92.       During negotiations, SNIM agreed to the f'ollowing financial cove-
nants: (i) to maintain at all times, unless the Bank should agree otherwise,
a debt: equity ratio not exceeding 60:40, a current ratio of at least 1.3:1
and a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.5:1; (ii) not to contract any
additional loans in excess of US$5 million without the prior consent of the
Bank until Phase 2 of the project has been completed; (iii) not to under-
take -- without prior consent of the Bank -- any new projects, either on its
own behalf, or through subsidiaries, or any capital expenditures outside the
project of more than US$5 million per annum; and (iv) not to invest in any
other corporate entity more than US$2 million per annum without prior approval
of the Bank (Sections 5.04(a), 5.05(a) and 5.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
SNIM will not distribute any dividends unless the above financial convenants
are met and the retained earnings deposited in a special account at the
Central Bank are accumulated to a level necessary for the financing of Phase 2
(Section 5.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). Similarly, the Government com-
mitted itself to guarantee that any foreign exchange deposited in this acccunt
will be made available to SNIM, as and when required for the purpose of Phase 2
financing (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Auditing and Reporting
93.       SNIM had its 1978 accounts audited by the French firm Helios and has
agreed to have its future accounts audited annually, by auditors acceptable'to
the Bank, and to submit these to the Bank within four months after the end of
each year (Section 5.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Financial Rate of Return
94.       The incremental financial rate of return on the Guelbs project
(Phase 1 and Phase 2 combined) is estimated at 5.4 percent before royalties,
and 1.4 percent after royalties. If the US$20 million extraordinary contin-
gencies are not included, the rates of return increase to 5.8 percent and 1.7
percent, respectively. These returns have been calculated by comparing the
situation "with" and "without" the Guelbs project. In the latter case,
COMINOR would have to maintain production at Kedia at an average rate of 8
million tpy in order to assure a reasonable profit until exhaustion of the
deposit in 1990. This production level is substantially higher than the 5-6
million tpy assumed to be the Kedia's share in COMINOR total output, should
the project be implemented. No adjustment has been made in the calculations
for the costs (such as resettlement and welfare payments) that would be
incurred on closure in 1990-91, if the project were not to proceed since
these are not, strictly speaking, SNIM costs. This rate of return, therefore,
underestimates the cost to the economy of closing down mining operations which
is the overwhelming concern of the major shareholder, the Mauritanian Govern-
ment. The economic benefits of the project, on the other hand, are high as it
extends the life of the mine, and thus develops, in the long-term, the major
productive sector of the Mauritanian economy and the only sustainable activity
in the northern part of the country.



- 28 -
Economic Analysis
95.       In calculating the incremental economic rate of return, the finan-
cial cost streams have been corrected by excluding all tax payments (export
royalty and all indirect taxes), and by shadow pricing Mauritanian labor
costs. The cost of Mauritanian laborers and foremen have been shadow priced
at, respectively, 30 percent and 50 percent of the financial costs. Similarly,
the local components of project construction work by contractors, and by
SNIM's own labor force, have been reduced to take into account indirect taxes
and shadow priced labor. The benefit streams have also been amended to take
into account the cost of closing the mine, the town site of Zouerate, the
communities along the railway line, and the Nouadhibou facilities, were the
project not to be implemented, for few alternative means of employment or
subsistence are available in Nouadhibou, and none exist around Zouerate. Once
the existing Kedia deposit is exhausted, all mining of iron ore would come to
a halt and most of the population -- estimated at 40,000 -- would have to be
resettled in other parts of the country (near the capital Nouakchott or in the
agricultural lands along the Senegal river). Because of the shortage of
adequate infrastructure and the high cost of building in Mauritania, as well
as that of creating alternative urban or agricultural employment, the resettle-
ment cost is expected to be high. On the basis of new or on-going projects
with comparable components in Mauritania and neighboring Senegal, the resettle-
ment cost has been estimated at a minimum of US$2,000 per person.
96.       On the basis of the above assumptions, the economic rate of return
for the combined Phases 1 and 2 is estimated at 11.8 percent. If the US$20
million of extraordinary contingencies are excluded, the rate of return in-
creases to 12.4 percent. The sensitivity tests indicate that the rate of
return is not overly sensitive to a 10 percent increase in either capital or
operating costs. However, a 10 percent decrease in sales revenue would reduce
the rate of return to 8.6 percent.
97.       One of the most important benefits that Mauritania will receive
from the project is its foreign exchange earnings. At full production,
Phases 1 and 2 are expected to yield incremental net foreign exchange earnings
after debt service of US$14 million and US$51 million per annum on average
(in real terms) respectively. Combining the existing mining operation with
the two Phases of the project, COMINOR is projected to yield total net foreign
exchange earnings of US$60 million per annum in real terms, on average, over
the period 1979-92.
98.       Implementation of the project will help maintain existing mining
operations, as well as further develop them. This is crucial to Mauritania
in order to sustain Government revenues and foreign exchange inflows, and
to create employment. In addition, the project will ensure the continuing
existence of SNIM, which through its training program, geological research
and project promotion, is the main instrument for future development of mining
activities and industry in Mauritania.



- 29 -
Debt Service Payments and Security Arrangements
99.       Bank loans for mining projects in countries which are not other-
wise creditworthy for Bank financing, generally involve technical, commercial
and/or financial guarantees from third parties, usually foreign shareholders
who plan to buy the project output. While the Bank loan to MIFERMA provided
for strong working capital guarantees from shareholders/consumers of iron ore,
the proposed Bank loan to SNIM could not include such guarantees, since the
nationalization of MIFERMA in 1974 broke the financial links between the
Mauritanian operation and the MIFERMA shareholders, who continue to purchase
part of their iron ore from SNIM but are not given and do not seek any
privileged commercial and financial relationship with SNIM.
100.      The proposed project, however, will generate considerable foreign
exchange earnings. On average, total iron ore sales revenues are projected
at 9-10 times annual debt service requirements and, therefore, constitute an
important assurance of repayment for the lenders, provided arrangements are
made to ensure both that proceeds from the sales of iron ore will be allocated
in priority to debt service payment and that sufficient foreign exchange for
SNIM's day-to-day operations will be at its disposal at all times.
101.      Under normal Mauritanian foreign exchange procedures, all proceeds
from exports must be repatriated. By derogation thereto, part of the iron
ore export sales proceeds will be kept abroad as follows.
102.      Under the provisions of a Set-Aside Agreement, SNIM will covenant
that SNIM's purchasers will be instructed to make all payments of sales
proceeds directly to a special account at a designated bank, the Societe
Generale in Paris (SG Paris). SNIM will be under an obligation to put into
all its sales contracts a provision to that effect.
103.      The Set-Aside Agreement will be entered into between SNIM, the
Central Bank, all the Guelbs lenders and the SG Paris, and a Trust Deed will
be entered into between SNIM, the Central Bank, all the lenders and the
Law Debenture Corporation of London, the latter acting as trustee. SG Paris,
as recipient of all iron ore sales proceeds, will be under permanent and
irrevocable instructions to transfer monthly (with priority over any other
allocations or transfers of proceeds received) to a Trust Account in London
such amounts as will be required to (i) accumulate therein the necessary
amounts for the next semi-annual debt service payment due (through equal
monthly deposits of 1/6 of the next semi-annual payment due and (ii) accumu-
late and maintain therein a permanent cushion equivalent to the next semi-
annual payment due.
104.      SG Paris will further be under permanent instructions in the Set-
Aside Agreement to transfer monthly out of the remaining funds, certain
minimum balances to a SNIM Operational Account. Such amounts will be deter-
mined on the basis of annual budgets for COMINOR's anticipated foreign exchange
operating expenses, which will have received prior approval from the Central
Bank. The remaining funds will then be repatriated in Mauritania and credited
to SNIM's account at the Central Bank.



- 30 -
105.      As an additional safeguard, SNIM will provide the participating
lenders collectively under a Security Agreement with (i) an unconditional
global assignment of all future sales proceeds from the sale of iron ore
and (ii) specific assignments of sales proceeds under contracts covering
at all times 50 percent of the annual iron ore production. Under the same
Agreement, SNIM will undertake not to assign sales proceeds to any other
party, unless agreed by the participating lenders. On the other hand, the
lenders agreed not to notify the purchasers of these assignments 1/ except
in the event that:
(i) SNIM fails to instruct any purchaser as referred to in
paragraph 102 and such default continues for a period
of 30 days after notice from one of the lenders to SNIM;
(ii) SNIM changes existing payment instructions;
(iii) SNIM fails to provide the lenders with assign-
ments with respect to sales contract together with
a copy of such contract within 30 days after notice
from one of the lenders to SNIM;
(iv) SNIM assigns sales proceeds under sales any contract in
a manner inconsistent with the above requirements; or
(v) the amounts available in the debt service cushion
referred to in paragraph 103 fall at any time below
a level required to cover the next semi-annual debt
service payments, either as a result of a deliberate
action by SNIM, or as a result of attachments by third
parties of funds in the Set-Aside account in Paris or
of sales proceeds due to SNIM.
The above events are designed to protect the Bank and other lenders, to the
extent possible, against deficiencies and risks inherent to a system of
assignments which have not been notified from the outset.  The right to
notify the assignments to the purchasers and instruct the purchasers to pay
into a collective account in the name of the lenders at the SG Paris may be
exercised independently by the Bank and one other representative of the
lenders. However, a majority of the lenders holding two-thirds of the out-
standing loans made for the project could veto the decision of notification.
Therefore, before notification, all other lenders will have to be informed
and will have seven working days to respond.
1/   The Bank accepted that the assignments not be notified from the outset
in view of the possible negative impact on SNIM' s commercial efforts
as advanced by the company. This reduces the level of security provided
to the lenders, since they will be in a junior position in case third
party creditors notify assignments to purchasers, or attach SNIM's
claims against purchasers, before the Guelbs lenders notify their
assignments to the same purchasers.



- 31 -
106.      The proposed arrangements provide some protection and limited
security to the Guelbs lenders without penalizing the Government excessively
as they deal only with obligations related to the Guelbs project. At the
same time, the SNIM Operational Account should strengthen the company by
assuring that foreign exchange will be available for its day-to-day opera-
tions. Agreement on the principle of these various arrangements has been
reached. Together with the issuance of payment instructions for all existing
contracts and of specific assignments covering 50 percent of SNIM's annual
iron ore production, conclusion of the Set-Aside Agreement, of the Trust
Deed and of the Security Agreement will be conditions of effectiveness.
107.      Assurances have been obtained from Government and SNIM that the
above arrangements do not infringe upon the rights of other creditors pro-
tected by negative pledge, pari-passu, or other provisions in their respective
agreements. There is, however, a slight chance that one of Government's
non-Guelbs creditors might participate in the security arrangements.
Major Risks
108.      One of the risks faced by SNIM is related to the past guerrilla
activity which could be very damaging to the future of the entire mining
venture. Were such activity to resume at the same intensity as in late 1977
and early 1978, project implementation could be seriously affected and the
company might be unable to maintain a financially viable operation. However,
the financing plan includes extraordinary contingencies, and the suspension
of military activities since early July 1978 augurs well for a peaceful
settlement.
109.      Another potential risk is that Phase 2 could not be implemented as
scheduled, with the consequence that, after exhaustion of the Kedia reserves,
COMINOR would only be able to count on a production of 6 million tpy from
Phase 1 and would, therefore, operate below the breakeven point. To counter
this threat, the financing plan for Phase 1 has been designed so that imple-
mentation of Phase 2 would not, under reasonably foreseeable circumstances,
be retarded because of financing problems. Furthermore, the financial pro-
jections indicate that, over 1983-88, SNIM would generate cash in excess of
the US$187 million projected as its own contribution to the Phase 2 financing.
Finally, the Government committed itself during negotiations not to use, under
any circumstances, SNIM accumulated cash surplus held in the Central Bank for
the financing of Phase 2 (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
A timetable of this accumulation has been agreed with the Bank and calls for
the first retention of SNIM's cash surplus to be made in 1984, at which time
14auritania should have been well on its way to economic recovery.
110.      The project faces the normal market risk of any iron ore export
project. However, SNIM is expected to produce good quality iron ore at
internationally competitive costs, and any marketing difficulties should,
therefore, at most, be temporary. Also, the incremental iron ore which the
project will introduce onto the world market is relatively small. Finally,
letters of intent and expressions of interest amounting to more than 50
percent of Guelbs production have already been obtained, and the general
response from the purchasers to the sales campaign initiated by SNIM is quite
favorable.



- 32 -
111.      The project is not expected to face any particular risks as regards
mining and transportation, since it is merely an extension of current activity.
Operations of the concentration/beneficiation plant, on the other hand, will
constitute a new activity for the company. However, since the process to be
employed is relatively simple and well-proven commercially, and adequate
training of operators is envisaged, no extraordinary difficulties in running
this plant satisfactorily are expected.
112.      With respect to project management, although SOCOMINE is a rela-
tively small concern, it is staffed with experienced people who had been in
management positions during the implementation and operation of the original
MIFERMA project, and who will be reinforced by qualified people from several
large consulting organizations. To ensure that the entire SOCOMINE staff
will be assigned full-time to the project during implementation, there is
a covenant in the draft Loan Agreement (Section 3.02(a)) which precludes
SOCOMINE from taking on outside prejudicial activities during the period.
Given this restriction, overall project management during implementation is
considered likeiy to be satisfactory.
113.      Finally, while the Government would guarantee repayment of the Bank
loan to SNIM, SNIM will also enter into the debt service payments mechanism
and security arrangements described in paragraphs 99-106. Moreover, since
the smooth and efficient operation of SNIM is the Bank's best security, the
Government has been asked to permit the company to retain a certain propor-
tion of its foreign exchange earnings outside Mauritania to ensure the timely
coverage of its operating costs. Furthermore, to safeguard the company's
financial resources and ability to properly execute and operate the project,
and to avoid any management diversion from other tasks, SNIM has agreed not
to proceed with any investments above US$5 million that are unrelated to its
iron ore operation without the prior consent of the Bank (Section 5.07 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
114.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and SNIM, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Islamic Republic of Mauritania and the Bank
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii),
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
115.      In addition to the features of the above Agreements which are
referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III, the following
features are of particular interest:
(a) Section 2.09 of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 2.04 of the
draft Guarantee Agreement provide that in case of prepayment of any
other loan for the project, a proportionate amount of the Bank loan
will also be prepaid.



- 33 -
(b)  Section 3.02(b) of the draft Guarantee Agreement requires the
Central Bank to issue necessary authorizations or take any
other steps required to ensure availability at all times of
necessary foreign exchange for SNIM's operations as well as
for the second phase financing.
(c)  Section 3.03 of the draft Guarantee Agreement requires the
Government to maintain a controlling majority shareholding
in SNIM.
(d)  Section 3.04 of the draft Guarantee Agreement stipulates obliga-
tions of the Mauritanian Government with respect to settlement of
financial matters between SNIM and the Government, namely with
respect to SOMIMA debt, MIFERMA compensation, and advances made by
SNIM to the Government.
(e)  Section 3.06(a) of the draft Guarantee Agreement requires the
Government to perform its obligations under the Convention Parti-
culiere (para 82 of this Report), the Set-Aside Agreement, the
Trust Deed and the Security Agreement.
(f)  Section 3.06(b) of the draft Guarantee Agreement requires the
Government to implement the new tax regime referred to in para-
graphs 68 and 82 of this Report.
(g)  The following additional events of suspension and accelera-
tion have been added, namely:
(i) a default occurs in performance of the Convention
Particuliere, of the Set-Aside Agreement, Trust
Deed or Security Agreement (paras 99 to 106 of
this Report; Sections 6.01(a) and (b) and 6.02(a)
and (b) of the draft Loan Agreement);
(ii) any of the agreements under (i) above shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, terminated, waived or
assigned without the prior approval of the Bank (Sec-
tions 6.01(c) and 6.02(c) of the draft Loan Agreement);
(iii) amendment of the Statutes without prior approval of the
Bank (Sections 6.01(d) and 6.02(c) of the draft Loan
Agreement);
(iv) cross remedies with co-financing agreements (Sections
6.01(f) and 6.02(c) of the draft Loan Agreement); and
(v) failure of such loans for which no cross-effectiveness
has been provided to become effective by June 30, 1980
or default in the paying in of the callable portion of
the borrower's capital (events of suspension only:
Section 6.01(f) and (g) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 34 -
(h) Additional conditions of effectiveness include:
(i)  cross-effectiveness provisions with loans aggregating
US$265 million (Section 7.01(a) of the draft Loan Agree-
ment);
(ii) repayment of the overdrafts aggregating US$39.5 million
equivalent or conclusion of other satisfactory arrangements
with respect to such overdrafts (Section 7.01(b) of the
draft Loan Agreement);
(iii) the Convention Particuliere, the Set-Aside Agreement,
the Trust Deed and the Security Agreement all satis-
factory to the Bank have been concluded, and assign-
ments with respect to existing long-term sales con-
tracts representing 50 percent of SNIM's production
have been provided to the lenders (Section 7.01(c)
and (d) of the draft Loan Agreement);
(iv) instruction to purchasers to pay to Societe Generale
in Paris have been given under existing long-term sales
contracts (Section 7.01(e) of the draft Loan Agreement);
(v)  arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the calling
in of the unpaid amount of SNIM's capital subscriptions
has been made (Section 7.01(f) of the draft Loan Agree-
ment);
(vi) the mining concession on the Guelbs deposit has been
granted (Section 7.01(g) of the draft Loan Agreement);
(vii) provision of satisfactory legal opinions on the binding
character of measures under (iii) and (vi) above and
on the validity of SNIM's reorganization and capital
increase.
116.      I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATI0N
117.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
June 21, 1979



- 35 -                                                 ANNEX I
Pane l
TAILE 3A
HAURITANIA - SOCIA INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REPRENCI GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
MAURITANIA                                              Li
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. WM.)                                                 - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           1030.7                                                   SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGCER
AGRICULTURAL     402.6                                 HDST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCEKE        INCOHE
1960  /bk   1970 lb ESTIMATE Lb      REGION Lc   GROIUP Ld    GROUP L
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   70.0       160.0     270.0            223.6      432.3        867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OP COAL EQUIVALENT)      18.0        144.0     108.0            86.7       251.7       578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         1.1          1.3       1.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OP TOTAL)  8.0         14.2      20.9             13.6       24.2        46.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                         1.0         1.2       1.4             18.4       42.7        50.8
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       2.7         3.2       3.7             53.6       95.0        93.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         41.6         41.8      41.9             44.4       44.9        42.9
15-64 YRS.                         55.2         55.1      55.0            52.7        52.8        53.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.2         3.1       3.1              2.8        3.0          3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               0.8 /f      1.8       2.5 Of           2.6        2.7         2.5
URBAN                                *-         7.8       8.2              5.8        8.8         4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      44.8        44.9      44.8             46.9       42.2         37.8
CRUDE. DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     27.1        24.7      24.9             20.6       12.4         10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..         2.9       2.9              3.1        3.2          2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..           ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           ..        ..              2.5       14.2         20.0
POOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)             100.0       100.0      73.5             94.2      104.3        107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    85.0        87.0      81.0             90.1       99.5        105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           73.0        75.0      63.2             55.2       56.8        63.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          ..        44.0 I      .              17.1       17.5        21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      34.0  h       ..        ..               ..        7.5         8.0
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    35.9         41.0      38.5             43.7       53.3        57.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           187.0          .      169.0            138.4       82.5         53.9
ACCESS TO SAPE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                          17.0                       22.4       31.1        56.8
URBAN                                ..        98.0         *-            66.3       68.5         79.0
RURAL                                ..        10.0         ..            10.4       18.2         31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-         7.0        *-             23.9       37.5        30.9
URBAN                                ..       100.0         ..            70.3       69.5        45.4
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..             14.2       25.4         16.1
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         30000.0 L   17210.0   15150.0           21757.5     9359.2      2706.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      7130.0  i   4320.0    2450.0           3473.8     2762.5      1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           4140.0 /uk 2760.0 /k 2320.0              645.4      786.5        493.9
URBAN                                ..       500.0 Lk  600.0            172.9      278.4        229.6
RURAL                                *-      5320.0  k 3628.0           1292.6     1358.4       2947.9
ADMISSIONS PER HiOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..             19.2       19.2         22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..          ..        ..              4.9         ..          5.2
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..              5.0         ..          5.0
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..             4.7         ..          5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          ..         ..              ..         ..          2.0
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..              ..        2.3          1.5
RURAL                               ..           ..         ..              ..         ..          2.7
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..         ..              ..       28.3         64.1
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..              ..          ..        67.8
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..              ..       10.3         34.1



- 36 -                                                      ANNEX I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
MAURITANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
MAURITANIA                                                La
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 lb     1970 lb ESTIMATE Lb        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                   8.0         16.0       17.0             52.1        75.B         99.8
FEMALE                 3.0          9.0        9.0             37.6        67.9         93.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   0.4          2.0        3.0              8.0        17.7         33.8
FEMALE                  ..          1.0        1.0              5.0        12.9         29.8
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 12.0           12.0       15.7              7.2         7.4         12.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             20.0         24.0         ..             43.2        34.3         34.9
SECONDARY                           17.0         23.0         ..             22.8        23.5         22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           5.0        10.0         ..             20.3        63.7         71.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.4          4.0        4.0 Li           3.9         7.2         12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          16.0         47.0       64.0             40.1        71.1        104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..         ..              2.2        14.1         28.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..           ..         ..              3.9        16.3         45.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..         ..               1.2         1.6         4.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        310.0        360.0      400.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     3.9          6.3        4.3             32.6        28.0         25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               91.0         87.5       85.0             73.3        54.1         46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   2.9          3.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 32.1         31.3       30.9             42.0        37.8         33.8
MALE                                  62.1         60.5       59.9             54.8        50.3         48.1
FEMALE                                 2.5           2.6       2.6             27.3        20.9         17.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.4          1.4       1.3               1.2         1.3          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..          ..         ..             25.7        19.5         23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             ..         ..             55.1        48.9         52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..          ..         ..              5.8         5.9          4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..         ..             14.5        15.7         13.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..         ..            108.8       155.9        191.9
RURAL                                  ..          ..       85.0             74.1        97.9        193.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..      125.0            124.4       143.7        319.8
RURAL                                  ..          ..       65.0             59.6        87.3        197.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       50.0             26.8        22.9         19.8
RURAL                                  ..          ..       45.0             47.6        36.7         35.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Lover Middle Income  (S281-550 per capita, 1976);  /e  Intermediate Middle
Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976); /f Difference between IBRD population growth rate and U.N. rate of natural
increase due to use of different census bases;   14  1964-66;   /h  1964-65;   /i  1962;   /I  Government
personnel only;   1k  Government hospital establishments only;  /1  1972.
September 1978



- 37-                                                                           ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                        Page 3
Note: The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform. Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. km)                                                                 Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters.                            urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                     available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                       habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                                at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
cere are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                      cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                  sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                                 provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                        from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                       HOUSING
Average size of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                                A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                       and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                              the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                         hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                      Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average mum-
of data among countries.                                                                   ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                            dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  sq. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                      unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                           Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                      Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                      of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                 EDUCATION
year population.                                                                        Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                      Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                          at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                      populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                          different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                       cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average eding in 1975 for most recent estimate.                        above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousapd) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                       Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                      tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                             vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                       usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                          exocluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                     Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                            clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                           or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                    Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                          primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                            sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                  Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group.                                            a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                        CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970=100) - Index number of per                      Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food commodities.                                        seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                    vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                  Radio receivers (per thousand posulation) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less                  broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,                 receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                     effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
quirements were estimated by FAl based on physiological needs for nor-                   abolished licensing.
mal activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                     TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to general
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                     public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coon-
cent for waste at household level.                                                         tries and ii years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                     Newspaper circulation  (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                       tion  of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                     cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                      be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.                Cimna annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein end                      sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                        units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from  animal and pulse - Protein supply of food                EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                       Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                     forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                                 tions in various countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                     Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (vears) - Average number of years of life                            as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                    Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                  electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                     Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                   lemale labor force an percentages of their respective populations.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                      These are ITLO's udjusted participatios rates reflecting age-sen
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                        structure of the population. nod lono  time trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                     Economic dpepndency ratio  - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to
uncontaminated water such as that from  protected boreholes, springs,                       the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                       INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                     Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                      percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                        of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                           POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to excreta disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                    Estimated absolute poverty income level (18$ per capita) - urban and rural -
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excreta                          Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a minimal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Escreta                           nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is not
di' s-,l may include the collection and disposal, with or without                           affordable.
rf-a.c-nt, of human excreta and waste-water by water-borne systems                      Estimated relative poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
o hr the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                      Relative poverty income level is that income level less than one-third
P,op., inn per physioan - Population divided by number of practicing                          per capota person1 income of the .o..try.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                         Estimated population below poverty income level (percent) - urban and rural -
Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of                               Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                           "relative poor" whichever is greater.
ou-ict-nt nurses.
Eosnomic and Social Data Division
Economic Analysis and Projections Department



- 38 -
ANNEX I
Page 4
ECONOMIO DEVELOPMENT DTA
(Amo      n millions of U.S. do=llas
Actual              Estimated      Projected       '973-   1975  -  1977 -   1985 -
M 1975             1977       197       1985    1990       1975    1977      1985      1990     1973    1977    1990
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                                                  ___
5-erAverage aLt 1977       Prices & Exchange Rates       Aveage AnnualGotRae                 AsPrntfGO
Gross Domestic Product             412.1    447.9    453,0       460.0    596.5   690.0 R4a2           1.1       3.4       3.0     96.5    99. b91.b
Gains from Terms of Trade (+)       14.8     28.4       2.0      - 8.3      37.2    63.3        .       .         .         .       3.5      0.4   8.4
Gross Domestic Income       4       26 79    77 ; 7E075          1415.7 0 33    75.            5.6    -1.7  4,     1       3.5    loo.6  100.0 100.0
Import (incl. NFS)                249.3    351.5    374.6        378.3    321.9   379,8       18.7     3.2      -1.9      3.4      58.4    81.4  50.4
ExPorts   "  (import capacity)   225.2    220.7    182.9         169.7    314.8   351.4       -1.0    -8.9       7.0       2.2     52.8    39.7  46.6
Resource Gap      -      2     h      T   -130.8   -191.7       -208.6     -7.1  ,78W           .                                   5 7   -41.7 , ,  _
Consumption Expenditures           353.7    427.6    420.0       438.2    520.3   640.5        9.9    -0.9       2.7       4.3     82.8    91.3  85.0
Investment   "  (incl. stocks)    97.3    179.5    231.7         222.1    120.5   141.2       36.c    13.6      -7.8      3.2      22.8    50.4  18.7
Domestic Savings                    73.2     48.7      4o.o       13.5    113.4   112.8    -18.0    -9.4        13.9      -0.5     17.1      8.7  15.0
National Savings                    88.1    119.9    113.9        60.1      98.4   100.7      16.0    -2.5      -1.9       0.5     20.6    24.8  13.4
MERCHANDISE TRADE                           Annual Data at Current Prices and Exchange Rates                                       As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital goods and
Intermediate goods (clfuels)   81.3    144.9    170.3          142.8    226.6   382.9       33.5    11.3       3.6     11.0      58.2   58.3  56.8
Fuels and related materials       10.0     26.7      32.1        34.1     65.3    91.6      63.0     9.6       9.3       7.8      7.2   11.0   13.6
Consumption goods                 48,4     70,2      89.5        90.0    141,5   200,0      20.5    17.9       5-9       7.2     34,6   30.7  29.6
Total Merch. Tmports (niT)      139.7    241.8    291.9         266.9    433.4  r7TT2       31.5    12.9       5.0       9.3    100.0  100.0 100.0
Exports
Iron Ore                        102.9    143.4    127.0          99.2    398.6   497.4      18.0    -5.9      15.4      4.5      76.7    76.1 75.3
Copper Concentrate               12.8       4.5      10,7         9.4     -       -        -41.2    53.0             .            9.5      7.2  -
Fish Products                    12.3      16.0      20,5       21.0      71.6   158.2      14,0    13.2      16.9     17.1       9.2    16.1  23.9
O ther Products 16.2                        3,1       1,8         0.7 34     5     5.0 7j2  6   -23,7          8.7      7.4       4.6      0.6  0.8
Total Merch, Expor-ts (fob)     1-34.2    167 .    I 00 1oo     530.4    47 3.7      7      11.6    -2-2       WT-    97   1700.0   100.0 100o.0
Merchandise Trade Indices                     Average 1977    - 100
Export Price Index               75.4    107.0    100.0         99.6    183.6   251.4       19,1    -4.9       7.9      6.4
Import Price Index               70.5      90.3    100.0       107.0    161.6   206.3       13.2     5,2       6.2      5.0
Terms of Trade Index            107.0   1i18.5    100.0         93.1    113.6   121.9        5.2    -8.2       1.6      1,4
Exports Volume Index            111.2      97.5    100.0        86.3    161.2   164.2       -6.4     1.3       6,.1     o.4
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR             Annual Data at 1977    Prices and Exchange Rates              Average Annual Growth Rates        As Percent of Total
Agriculture                      90.2    116.0    103,3        116.3    150.9   182,7       13.4    -5.2       4,9      4.0      25,0    25.9  30.5
Industry and Mining             141.1    111.5    108.9        100.8    181.8   201.3    -11,1    -1.2         6.6      2.1      39.2    27.3  33.5
Service                         129,1    151,6    186.7        171.8    182.6   216.0        8.4    11.0       0.2      2.7      35'8    46.8  36.O
Total                           360,4   379.1    39829 3.5T9 522.3 600O.0                    2.5               T        27      1000.0   100.0 100,0
PUBLIC FINANCE                    Annual Data in Current Prices and Exchange Rates                                                   As Percent of GDP
(Central Government)
Current Receipts                 62.9      90.3    100.7       108.2   291.1   444.4       20.0      6.4      13.9      8.8      23.9    22.7 26.8
Current Expenditures             58.4      99.5    190.4       197.0   300.4   362.4       29.0    39.5        5.1      3.8      22.2    42.9 21.9
aurrent Ralanne                   -9.2    -89.7       -88,_8.. 9-3                                                        17 _ -20
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                           Actual             Prelim.            DETAIL ON 1R 
As   Total Current Expend. )173   1974   1975   1976    1977                              PUBLIC SECTOR
Wages and Salaries                      35;    32.5   347   27.0    35.2                 INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Material and Supplies                    16,5   18.0   20.4   16.6    23.6                 Agriculture                      25,2              5.9
Maintenance                               2.6    1.1    0.9    0.3       o.6               Mining                          110,0            25.6
Subsidies and Transrers                   9.1   11.8   16,6    6.3       7.9              Manufacturing                    114.0             26.5
Public Debt (interest)                    1.3    6.0    3.0    6.8       4.1               Infrastructure                  130,0            30.2
Other                                    13.1   10.2    7.7    4.1       0.9              Public Utilities                  19.0              4.4
Stecial Accounts                         21.8   20.4   16.7   36.9    27.7                 Other                            31.8             7.4
Total Expenditures                     100.0  100.0  00.0 10a0.0   100.0                   Total Expenditures              430.0           100.0
FINANCIING
Public Sector Savings          33.2            7.0
Foreign Capital Grants        45.3            10.5
Foreign Loans                351.5            81.8
Total Financing              430.0           100.0
1/
LABOR FORCE                                    Total Labor Force
In Thousands        % of Total          1970 - 77
1970       1977    1970       1977      Growth Rate
Agriculture (inl. Livestock)  306.0        315.0    85.0        75.0        o.4
Industry  and Service           54.0       105.0    15.0       25.0        12.8
Total                           360.0      420.0   100.0      100.0         2.2
not applicable        - nil or negligible
not available        -- less than half the
smallest unit shown
J Including unemployed.



- 39 -
ANN1EX I
Page
60WANE OF PA1T9WT0S EE?MU4kL ASSI8TANCO IJID DM8T
taesacota in asillitnsa of 0.0. dollars at current prices)
1/                                 Avgg. Acl
Artaci                   __________                 Profl9~~~~~~~~~1.....                          Orseth Rate.
19VJ         1974         1975         1976          197            1978         l                                                               7 398 DPro c7-197 7   1977 -1990
S21883RY RiLANCE OF PAYMTS
Epocrte (incl. NFS)                        144 8        203.6        185.6        201.9       , 178.8           161.4        196.9        238,0        411.Z        51S.6        725.5        5 .4         11.4
0swar4.s(3nc1.7VFSc1.~f)                  154.9        246.6        307.0        401.6         386.5          352.7        494.2        487.0        408.9        504.7        785.0        25.0             6
7i644044 Dalecce (I-Sf)                  r-1                 0     .1u 121.4      TW7           -207.7         -191.3      -cy7r.        oizr         --i-i        -IS-         -c37.7
latorest-t-  Public Debt                    -2.0         -4.4         -5.5         -7.8         -14.6           -13.4        -17.7        -23.4        -44.3        -34.3        -40.3       65.0           8.1
Diract Tnvtactt TIccme                      -3.4         -6.0         -0.2         -0.5          - 0.8           ..           -0.9         -1.0         -6.2         -6.3         -6.5      -30.1          17.5
Wtrkers' Osswttear                         -14.6        -16.2         -24.4       -28.4          -27.6          -30.3        -32.6        -34.9        -42.7        -48.9        -60.4       17.3           6.2
Current Toccefers /et)                      31.4         72.7          76.6       139.7          119.6          149.2         80.0         72.5         66.0         65.3         82.3       40.0          -2.8
RaLance on OVrrert AocovX3ts                1.3          3.1        574.9        -96.7        -131.1           -86.8      -268.5       -233.8         -24.9         18.3        -4.4
Direct I-ve-tceat                           10.3         35.5        -12.8 2/    -49.7 3/          4.4          - 6.8         38.0 41       2.0          3.0          5 0         10.0                      6.5
Official Capitl Grasnt                       8.4          9.1         10.9         12.0           13.6           15.2         15.7         16.8         24.0         31.0         43.0       12.8           9.3
pubLic M6LT I.ans 51
1roburcsoata                              28.3         46.7         11.0        184.6           77.2          109.7        224.1        236.2         53.7         79.8        170.0       29.0           6.8
-R4o8.m-nt.                               --5 .6        -8.4        -23.0        -19.4         -22.6           -17.5         -9.L        -16.4        -39.1        -40.2        -70.9       40.0           9.2
Net Di.sh--t                                22.5         08.3          22.0       165.2           54.6           92.2        215.0        219.8         14.6         31.6         99.1       25.0           4.7
Other M1lT Lnane(lat)                      -15.7         -3.1         -2.2         -3.3          - 1.9            2.2          3.0         -            -
Sboot-Trem Capital                       -20.5        -43.7          0.2          1.8           12.5           ..          -             -            -            -            -
Capital Tcas-ctios n.e.i.                   -7.0          5.2          4.1        -11.4            2.7            3.3
Change ia Det  teserces (-Racce.ase)         0.7        -44.4         52.7        -17.9           45.2          -19.3         -3.2         -2.8        -16.7        -57.3        -67.7
1973      1974      1976      1977
LOAN3 CQWIT11bTS                                                                                                 DE8T AND DPDt SERVICE
Public Debt Out. cad DtOb-rsed  185.8        168.4    392.4    457.0
Tlb   I03.7T Lhean                                                                                               Interest cn Pablio Debt            2.0        4.4      7.6      14.6
TOlD                                      -            -            _            _             _               RPpaysent ca Public Debt 4/    10.9          9.8      29.4     22.7
IDA                                        2.5          7.9          8.0          2.7            3.5           Total Poblic Debt Dercior        12.9       14.2      37.2      37.3
APESD                                     -             4.6         -            45.9           -
Otier Multilateral                         9.1          9.6          -            2.4            1.6       BPursd  cn Rxpcrt E-irntlg  (%)
Govarc- ents                              39.4        104.9          63.9         98.8          36.7
Suppli-r                                  43.2           1.9          0.9          3.2          10.7          PbiI  Debt Srce8.9                           7.0     16.4      20.:9
Finaic.1L Ln-titntin=                      0 5         15 1          13.4         27.9          21.2          PDS+ Direct  lare11 .3                         9.9     18.7      21 3
macdc ~ ~~~~~~~~747                         -'rr         --8-    -7                 -7"          A-gT.f biDt
Total Paili.c YlT Oin m learn               R            44.u TUP.D 1Dfl             U          7517         Average Terms of pnlsloc Lebt
AcltEn  Debt Ot.tecadica -o De.  31. 192       n                Tnt. as 9 Prior YIsr [D             3.5        4.2      4.1       2.3
ZTEEItAL DM8                                     Dieb ...ed  oly  Parctc  Dctcl Debt    Peccant                   Anort. as    Prior Tsa  [D34       19.2        9.3      36.9       6.2
World Beok                                            -             -          --
7DA                                                 24.3           5.3        39.8        5.9
Other Mtilateral                                    36.6            8.0        69.4       10.3
Govarcarento                                       248.9          54.5       402.8       59.5
macthai-rs                                          30.0           15.3        71 4      10.5
Fin3acial 7cstit.ntlona                             47.2           10.3        63.3        9.4                0.4 Debt mat. & Ilisborsed           11.3       15.1      18.6      24.3
8000d                                                -              -          -            -                     c     Public Dlbt O&D            10.7        8.5       4.7      3.3
Public Debts n.e.i                                  30.0            6.6        30.0        4.4                 c   as 9 Pcbli  Debt Serv-I         --          0.4       0.4       0.9
Total Public M6LT D*bt                             457.0          100.0       676.7      100.0
1/    The beleoce of pay-tast  projectiDts  ra-  based o= tie foluoicg a-a-cpticca   (i) reacheduliog or ccaaolidstica of ebcot
o third of existiag eccarnol debt (US5215 clllict-) ss ac-ted by the  cvoec--t; (ii) suopecaioc of guec-ill. activity,
pet-itticg oat only c a.csl r-cupption of i-ca  arc cap-rtc  bat ala- the suppraoioo of ailitt-y  quipteert iapcrte;ocd (iii) cored
orather -ccditicos, pe.nittito a cepid iprov-ect of egricoltu-el productLio. Sboald the Sehar- conflict pa-alat o dr-oght
ottuc in cthrr y-ara, it hea tbn ascoed tcht these aataptioal eapendit-a  scald be ficcaced by -upple-et-ary ecteral a.sict cce.
2/     Intludiag  a pay t of abat $20 04ili- fcc thc acquisitioc of SfMIM06.
3/     Macly payats to MTOUN'. *h -sbhldaes.
4/     Maicly a   sqity paeticipctisas in 51S".
5/    fScledig l-  sIr balance af ppseats auppvst.
6/    ITcladiag r-payceat cc loc-  far balance af pay.e.to support b4t easindiag
the US540 million cash payse-t to IIIFEPRIA chcoeholde..  it 1976, citoe this
was cads aith the proceeds of a I... -occeated by KFTCIC.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MAURITANIA (as of April 30, 1979)
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
Loan or                                                 Amount less Cancellation 1/
Credit                                                         (US$ million)
Number     Year      Borrower            Purpose        Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
One Loan and three Credits fully disbursed              66.0  13.9          -
444-MAU    1973    Mauritania   Drought Relief Fund             2.5       0.0 2/
459-MAU    1974    Mauritania   Education                       3.8        2.9
S16-MAU    1974    Mauritania   Irrigation Engineer-
ing                        1.1        0.0 3/
519-MAU    1975    Mauritania   Third Highway                   3.0        1.5
588-MAU    1975    Mauritania   Nouadhibou Port                 8.0       0.2
665-MAU    1976    Mauritania   Technical Assist-
ance I                     2.7        1.9
694-MAU    1977    Mauritania   SONADER - Technical
Assistance                  3.5       1.6
888-MAU    1979    Mauritania   Urban and Rural
Development                8.0        8.0
TOTAL                                        66.0  46.5       16.1
of which has been repaid                 66.0   0.7
Total now outstanding                         0.0  45.8
Amount sold                          63.4      -
of which has been repaid           63.4     -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/              -   45.8       16.1
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/   Undisbursed US$16,404.95.
3/   Undisbursed US$5,885.90
B. Statement of IFC Investments
Amount (US$ million)
Type of                          Equity
Year     Obligator               Business                  Loan Investment Total
1968     SOMIMA             Copper Mining
One loan and an equity investment fully             18.8    1.2      20.0
repaid when the Government nationalized
SOMIMA in 1974



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
C. Projects in Execution I/
Cr. No. 459-MAU - Education Project: US$3.8 million; Credit Agreement:
February 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
(Original Date: December 31, 1980)
This project provides for (a) the establishment of a vocational
training center in Nouakchott to meet training needs for clerical, mechanical
and construction workers; (b) the establishment of a mining training program
in Nouadhibou; (c) equipment and technical assistance for the National
Pedagogical Center for the upgrading and counseling of teachers through
educational broadcasting and related teaching materials; (d) the establish-
ment of a pilot farmer training center in the irrigated rice perimeter of
M'Pourie; (e) the establishment of a farmer radio programming center at
Kaedi; (f) an experimental study of the feasibility of introducing basic
education (reading, writing, arithmetic) in the Koranic school system; and
(g) technical assistance for the Directorate of Planning to help develop
better indicators of manpower demand.
Project implementation was delayed in 1975/76 due to weak project
management and the need to review the cost and content of the project in the
face of higher-than-anticipated price escalation. Since alternative financing
was not available, the scope of the project has been reduced. Agreement has
been reached with the Government to eliminate two project components: a rural
radio station for the Senegal River Valley and radio facilities for primary
education. The Credit proceeds are being reallocated to the other components:
a vocational training center in Nouakchott, technical assistance for training
in the mining industry, a farmer training center, and an experimental study
of Koranic schools. Following recent improvements in project management,
implementation of these remaining components is progressing satisfactorily.
Farmer training has begun in temporary facilities, contracts have been
awarded for the vocational training center with construction expected to start
in June 1979. The Koranic school experiment is nearly completed but several
key questions remain to be investigated during its final phase. The project
is expected to be completed by June 1983.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Cr. No. 519-MAU -  Third Highway Project:  US$3.0 million; Credit
Agreement: December 11, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
The principal aim of the project is to consolidate and expand
the maintenance and betterment efforts started under the First Road Mainte-
nance Project (Cr. No. 159-MAU). The project consists of: (a) technical
assistance to relieve the shortage of qualified highway personnel and to
allow for the continuation of the training program undertaken under the
previous credit; (b) purchase of highway equipment for maintenance and bet-
terment works; (c) a betterment program of about 365 km including earthworks
in new alignments to avoid sandy or periodically flooded areas, construction
of surface drainage and high river-crossing structures; and (d) a feasibility
study and detailed engineering of the Rosso-Boghe road (200 km). The project,
which costs a total of US$13.7 million, is financed jointly by the KFAED
(US$3.8 million) and in parallel by the Government of Canada (US$4.2 million).
The project became effective on June 8, 1976. The Betterment program to be
executed by force account is the central element of the project, and is now
about three years behind appraisal schedule. Although most of the Canadian
equipment has arrived, the quality of the works is not yet satisfactory. The
project has been included in the list of "problem projects" since July 1977.
Difficulties are due to a lack of managerial and technical competence and not
making use of project consultants to overcome the deficiency; lack of funds
to prefinance force account work; complex project administration; and a cost
overrun resulting from delayed credit effectiveness and project implementation.
We have agreed with the Government and the Kuwait Fund, to modify the Credit
Agreement by essentially reducing the betterment program from 365 to 215 km,
in order to stay within the financial envelope provided. The reduced project
will be financed 100 percent by the Association and the Kuwait Fund. Details
of the changes have been reported to the Executive Directors in the Semi-
Monthly Report dated May 24, 1979. The technical assistance to the Ministry
of Plan, and the feasibility study of the Rosso-Boghe Road have been satis-
factorily completed.
Cr. No. 588-MAU - Nouadhibou Port Project: US$8 million; Credit
Agreement: October 31, 1975; Closing Date:
March 31, 1979
This project supports the development strategy of the fishing sector
in Mauritania. It aims to enlarge the port and improve its administration and
operation. Content: (a) construction of civil works, consisting of fishing
and commercial berths and an approachway, a sewerage scheme, and various
buildings; (b) purchase of a harbor master's launch and navigation aids,
maintenance equipment; (c) technical assistance to PAN for port administra-
tion, operations and reorganization of its accounting and financial systems;
and (d) consulting services for studies on the need for and development of
ship-repair facilities.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Although the IDA Credit was only declared effective in June 1976
(due to delays in the ratification of the Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement), work
on the principal item of the civil works, the marine works, commenced in
February 1976. Work has subsequently commenced for all the civil works com-
ponents and the majority of the work was completed by mid-1978. The extension
to the commercial berths and the new fishing berths went into operation in
November 1977. A considerable increase in the volume of rock to be dredged
resulted in cost overruns for this item but the overall project cost has been
maintained. A new financing plan, including the dredging cost overrun has
been prepared and discussed with the Government and the co-financers, so that
the available funds can now be reallocated.
The civil works should be completed in the course of 1980. The
technical assistance component of the project commenced in October 1977 and is
progressing satisfactorily. The study for facilities to repair small ships
started in June 1978: an interim report is being reviewed.
The declining trend in traffic, particularly at the commercial
berth, is expected to be reversed with an improvement in the political and
economic atmosphere, progress with the Guelbs mining project, and the Govern-
ment's intensified efforts to develop the fishing sector.
Cr. No. 665-MAU - Technical Assistance Project: US$2.7 million;
Credit Agreement: December 9, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The aim of the project is to strengthen the Ministry of Planning
in order that it can exercise its responsibility as a central agency which
will integrate overall plan and policy formulation with the preparation and
financing of sectoral programs and their related projects. The project pro-
vides a four-year program to finance (a) five professionals for the Ministry
of Planning to elaborate long-term general and sectoral strategies, set prior-
ities, identify projects, undertake economic and financial analysis, train
Mauritanian counterparts to take over their tasks; and (b) temporary consul-
tants to deal with special subjects when needed.
All experts have been recruited. The team leader and the industrial
economist took up their assignment in January and the other experts in May/
June 1978. The team is assisting Government in reviewing its investment
program, sector policies and project priorities. A good working dialogue
has been established between the mission and Mauritanian officials. The
Project is progressing satisfactorily.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 694-UAU - SONADER Technical Assistance Project: US$3.5 million;
Credit Agreement: April 8, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The project consists of (i) services of seven expatriate experts to
assist SONADER in identifying, preparing and implementing irrigation projects,
and train Mauritanian professionals; (ii) consultant services to carry out
complementary studies of the Gorgol Irrigation Project and other studies;
(iii) purchases of vehicles and office equipment. The team of expatriates and
Mauritanian professionals continue to perform satisfactorily. Complementary
studies of the Gorgol Irrigation perimeter of the Foum-Gleita Dam have been
completed.
Cr. No. 888-MAU - Urban and Rural Development Project: US$8.0 million;
Credit Agreement: April 11, 1979; (not yet effective);
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project includes three separate components to provide financial
and technical assistance: (i) to the industrial sector for development of
small- and medium-scale enterprises promising substantially lower investment
costs per job than currently; (ii) to the artisan sector for rehabilitating and
expanding the production of knotted carpets by decentralizing production and
improving training of weavers; and (iii) to the agricultural sector for develop-
ment of 30 new irrigated schemes under village cooperatives, including an
adequate credit scheme. The project also provides consulting services to
study the feasibility of establishing a gypsum plaster brick industry to
replace expensive imported cement with locally made bricks, and of creating a
new industrial zone in the capital city of Nouakchott.



- 45 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Date of first presentation to the Bank:
October 1976
(b) First Bank Mission to consider the project:
January 1977
(c) Agencies which prepared the project:
SOCOMINE and SNIM
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal Mission:
October 1977
(e) Dates of co-lenders meetings:
June 1977; December 1977; January 1978; April 1978;
September 1978; and January 1979.
(f) Date of completion of negotiations:
May 8, 1979
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: 60 days after signing
Section II:    Special Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:   Special Conditions
During negotiations, the following principal items have been dis-
cussed and Government and SNIM have provided assurances that:
(i) SNIM will furnish the Bank with annual reports describing the
existing water resources and its prospecting efforts for
developing new ones (para 58);
(ii) SNIM will carry out a long-term study on the effects of dust
inhalation by the workers in order to determine whether
adequate protection exists. The company will report
annually to the Bank on dust levels and, if needed, suit-
able equipment should be installed to protect the workers
(para 60);



- 46 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(iii) effectiveness of foreign loans aggregating US$265 million
and satisfactory assurances that loans representing the
remaining US$73 million will be forthcoming are conditions
of effectiveness of the Bank loan (para 66).
(iv)  As a condition of effectiveness, Government will grant under
the Convention Particuliere a reduction in iron ore export
taxes. The Convention Particuliere will also make provision
for deferral of a certain proportion of SNIM's tax payments
should cost overruns require additional funds (paras 82,
and 68);
(v) SNIM will continue using the services of SOCOMINE and to estab-
lish an expert committee to assist in the supervision of these
steps in the execution of the project which require a high
degree of technical expertise (para 69);
(vi)  SNIM will implement the reorganization and streamlining program
which is expected ultimately to lead to recurrent cost savings
in SNIM's central organization of 30-40 percent over a 4 year
period (para 86);
(vii) Government will assume repayment of SOMIMA debts and to repay
to SNIM US$30.8 million equivalent representing the balance
after liquidation of Governmeni-/SNIM debts (para 88);
(viii) repayment of overdrafts aggregating US$39.5 million equivalent
or conclusion of other satisfactory arrangements with respect
to such overdrafts is a condition of loan effectiveness
(para. 89);
(ix)  Government will free SNIM of any compensation payments pertain-
ing to the nationalization of MIFERMA (para 90);
(x) SNI' will not distribute any dividends, unless all the finan-
cial covenants are met and will place the accumulated cash in
a special account at the Central Bank. Similarly, the Govern-
ment will guarantee that any foreign exchange deposited in
this account will be made available to SNIM, as and when
required for the purpose of Phase 2 financing (paras 92 and
109);
(xi)  SNIM will maintain at all times, unless the Bank should agree
otherwise, a debt/equity ratio not exceeding 60:40, a current
ratio of at least 1.3:1 and a debt service coverage ratio of
at least 1.5:1. Furthermore, SNIM agreed not to undertake --
without prior consent of the Bank -- any new projects, either
on its own behalf, or through subsidiaries, or any capital ex-
penditures outside the project of more than US$5 million per
annum (paras 92 and 113);



- 47 -
ANNEX III
Page 3
(xii) SNIM will have its accounts audited annually and to submit them
to the Bank within four months after the end of the year (para
93);
(xiii) arrangements will be made for calling in the unpaid portion of
SNIM's capital subscription (para. 64);
(xiv) the Set-Aside Agreement, the Trust Deed and the Security
Agreement will be concluded, and assignment with respect
to existing long-term sales contracts representing 50 percent
of SNIM's production will be provided to the lenders (paras.
99 to 106); and
(xv) instructions will be given to purchasers to make all payments
of sales proceeds directly to Societe Generale in Paris (para.
102).






IBR  13583R
- ~~ISlAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANfA
s  TE GUELBS IRON ORE PROJECT                                                                    , 
PA- VAED ROADS UNDER CONS1CS
GRAVEL ROADS                                                                                                       KILOMETERS
TRACKS
F  :;;-  RAILROADS
-      3   tf 5 ANNUAL RAINFALL IN  MILLIMETERS   :
*     AIRFIELDS                                             J 
|      COPPER                                                                     C C
|~   Sj IRON                                                 -    -       --       ------------------j
[ gg ~ACUAIMARINE
TUNGSTEN                                                                                                        A  L G   E  R  IA
Ms g   SULPHUR 
I      GYPSUM                                                                                           !
MP        0 HOSPI4ATES /\
URANWuM
INTERNATIONAL ROUNDARIE                                                       -
-----INDICATES THE TERRITORY OFrMghenN
THE FORMER SPA_SH SAHARA
(WESTERN SAHIARAI
F. 'Drik,    'AREA FPIO,ECT
|   .  j.>                               F DerEh$8 a AflEf ~~~~i's47""16OFPEf 1384                                     M   fA L|
!                                    | - - - - - - - - -.-- -|
NoUdhbbOI                                             OUMTUNNELI
} *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'* 00 OuadQne|
*=20  0f\  Chinguetti
I  st       ,g,              Zg3,f/S          \~~~kcjut                                                                                     2
F *   '>  Rare Earthsk\
I  <   @   5tidikja o *            Tichiff
A"'~~~A 
NOu ;".T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NVMBR11
I il ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MoudJjeria,'  
tIse       St Lou                                     Kod Ros2 20                                                                                      1
|  DAKAR * .  /                          6      P      o- T        \ (                                 \6
f     /                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~Matam> '>300'' 
i                   ~~~S E N E G A L                          ) 8mi 
LP t    NO Y E pW- a



