D CUMET    OAN NUMBER 1825 CO
Loan Agreement
(Fifth Telecommunications Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
EMPRESAS PUBLICAS DE MEDELLIN
Dated   be1                       , 1980


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated           b     19          , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the 4ank) and EMPRESAS PUBLICAS DE MEDELLIN (hereinafter
called the Bo-rower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
Section 11.03 is amended to read as follows:
"Section 11.03. Action on behalf of the Borrower
or Guarantor. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed,
pursuant to the Loan Agreement or the Guarantee Agreement, on
behalf of the Borrower or the Guarantor, may be taken or
executed by the representative of the Borrower, or of the
Guarantor designated in the Guarantee Agreement for the
purposes of this Section, or any person thereunto authorized
in writing by him. Any modification or amplification of
the provisions of the Loan Agreement or the Guarantee Agree-
ment may be agreed to on behalf of the Borrower or the
Guarantor by written instrument executed on behalf of the
Borrower or the Guarantor by such representative or any
person thereunto authorized in writing by him; provided that
such modification or amplification is reasonable in the
circumstances and will not substantially increase the
obligations of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement or
of the Guarantor under the Guarantee Agreement."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "Department" means one of the following Borrower's
departments: energla, telefonos and acueducto and alcanta-
rillado;
(b) "Telephone Department" means the Borrower's telephone
service department;
(c) "Telephone Assets" means all the local automatic
exchanges, cables, subscribers' plants and connections, construc-
tions, vehicles and other related facilities assigned by the
BGrrower to its Telephone Department;
(d) "pesos" and "Col$" means peoos in the currency of the
Guarantor;
(e) "Estatutos" means the estatutos of the Borrower set
forth in Acuerdo No. 58 of 1955 of the Municipalidad de Medell1n
issued in accordance with Decreto No. 1816 of 1955 as such
estatutos may be amended from time to time and such term shall
include all other applicable legislation of the Municipalidad de
Medellin;
(f) "Telephone Investment Program" means the Borrower's
1980-1984 telephone investment program set forth in Acta No. 921
of December 4, 1978 of the Borrower, as such program may be
amended from time to time;
(g) "First Power Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement
for Loan No. 225-CO of May 20, 1959 between the Bank and the
Borrower, and "First Power Guarantee Agreement" means the guaran-
tee agreement for Loan No. 225-CO of even date between the Guaran-
tor and the Bank;
(h) "Second Power Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement
for Loan No. 282-CO of May 12, 1961 between the Bank and the
Borrower, and "Second Power Guarantee Agreement" means the guaran-
tee agreement for Loan No. 282-CO of even date between the Guaran-
tor and the Bank;
(i) "Third Power Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement
for Loan No. 369-CO of February 7, 1964 between the Bank and the
Borrower, and "Third Power Guarantee Agreement" means the guaran-
tee agreement for Loan No. 369-CO of even date between the Guaran-
tor and the Bank;


﻿-3-
(j) "Fourth Power Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement
for Loan No. 874-CO of January 12, 1973 between the Bank and, the
Borrower, and "Fourth Power Guarantee Agreement" means the guaran-
tee agreement for Loan No. 874-CO of even date between the Guaran-
tor and the Bank;
(k) "Power Loan Agreements" means collectively the loan
agreements referred to in paragraphs (g), (h), (i) and (j)-hereof;
and
(1) "Power Guarantee Agreements" means collectively the
guarantee agreements between the Guarantor and the Bank referred
to in paragraphs (g), (h), (i) and (j) hereof.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to forty-four million dollars ($44,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing D"te shall be June 30, 1985
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.


﻿-4-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%) per annum on
the prIncipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial, engineering and telecommunica-
tions practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall use its best efforts to obtain such
loans or other financing on reasonable terms as shall be required
by it, in addition to the proceeds of the Loan and the Borrower's
own resources, for the financing of the Telephone Investment
Program, including the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿-5-
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
(d) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures
to ensure that the Project is carried out with due regard to
ecological and environmental factors.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expan-
sion and carry on its operations in accordance with appropriate
business, financial and public utility practices and under the
supervision of experienced and competent management assisted
by adequate, experienced and competent staff.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take all steps necessary
to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory
to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall operate and maintain its
plants, equipment and property, and from time to time make all
necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance with
appropriate engineering standards; and shall at all times operate
its plants and equipment and maintain its financial position in
accordance with appropriate public utility and business practices.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall: (i) by February 28, 1981,
carry out, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, a
study for reorganizing the Telephone Department in order to
strengthen the management of the Borrower's expanding telephone
operations; (ii) by September 30, 1980, furnish to the Bank
for its approval the terms of reference referred to in (i) hereof;
(iii) promptly thereafter, furnish to the Bank for its review and
comments the results of the study referred to in (i) hereof; (iv)
prepare a program for reorganizing the Telephone Department on the
basis of the conclusions of the study referred to in (i) hereof
and the comments of the Bank thereon; and (v) by September 30,
1981, put into effect the program referred to in (iv) hereof.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall operate each of its Depart-
ments separately and shall for the assets, revenues and expendi-
tures of each of its Departments maintain separate records
adequate to reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices, the operations and financial condition
of such Departments.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to
the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than
three months after the end of each fiscal year, certified copies
of its unaudited financial statements for each such year; (iii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than five months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iv) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time rea-
sonably request.
Section 5.03. Not later than three months after the end of
each calendar year, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
have reasonably requested, showing the Borrower's performance
through the end of such year and projected through the following
twelve months.
Section 5.04. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally and
ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and


﻿-8-
other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such lien
express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satis-
factory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however,
that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply
to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price
of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall not, without the consent
of the Bank, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially,
all of its Telephone Assets or all or substantially all of the
property included in the Project or any installation included
therein, unless the Borrower shall first redeem and pay, or make
adequate provision satisfactory to the Bank for redemption or
payments of, all of the Loan which shall then be outstanding and
unpaid.
Section 5.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt for the benefit of the
operations of any Department, unless the net revenues earned
on the operations of such Department for the fiscal year next
preceding such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended
prior to such incurrence, whichever amount is greater, shall be
not less than 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirement for
any succeeding fiscal year on all debt, including the debt to be
incurred, to be serviced with revenues generated by the operations
of such Department. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) the term "debt" shall mean all debt of the Borrower,
including debt for the service of which the Borrower is respon-
sible, maturing by its terms more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a con-
tract, loan agreement or other instrument providing for such debt
or for the modification of its terms of payment, on the date of
such contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee
has been entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed
debt is outstanding;


﻿(c) the term "net revenues" shall mean gross revenues from
all sources, adjusted to take account of the Borrower's tariffs in
effect at the time of the incurrence of debt even though they were
not in effect during the fircal year or twelve-month period to
which such revenues relate, less all operating and administrative
expenses and provision for taxes, if any, but before provision
covering depreciation, interest and other charges on debt;
(d) (i) the term "debt service requirement" shall mean
the aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking fund
payments, if any), interest and other charges on debt; provided,
however, that in respect of the Borrower's Power Department this
term shall also include all amounts to be payable by the Borrower
to Interconexi6n Elictrica S.A. (hereinafter called ISA) in
exchange for shares and bonds of ISA, as required by the Estatutos
of ISA; (ii) For the    purpose of sub-paragraph (i) hereof, the
term "Estatutos" means the estatutos of ISA dated September 14,
1967, as amended as of the date of this Agreement and as further
amended from time to time, under which ISA was established
and operates, and the term "bonds" means titulos issued by ISA
pursuant to paragraph (b) of Article 12 of the Estatutos; and
(e) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Guarantor,
debt payable in another currency such valuation shall be made on
the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for
the purposes of servicing such debt.
Section 5.07. Except as the,Bank and the Borrower, with the
concurrence of the Guarantor, shall otherwise agree:
(a) the Borrower shall establish and maintain for the
services provided by each Department tariffs which will provide
revenues at least sufficient to cover its administrative and
operating expenses (including taxes, if any, contributions to the
Municipalidad de Medellfn and adequate provision for maintenance
and depreciation), debt service in excess of depreciation, and a
reasonable contribution towards new capital investments of that
Department; provided, however, that the provisions of this para-
graph shall not be construed, under any circumstances, as limiting
the rate of return requirements for the Borrower's power oper-
.ations, as set forth in the Fourth Power Loan Agreement;
(b) without limitation upon the foregoing, the Borrower
in the carrying out of its telephone operations shall take all


﻿- 10 -
such steps as shall be necessary (including adjustment of tariffs)
in order to generate an annual return at a rate of at least nine
per cent (9%) on the average net current value of its fixed
Telephone Assets in operation calculated in accordance with
the method outlined in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(c) the Borrower shall, within the first three months of
each calendar year:
(i) calculate in respect of its Telephone Department:
(1) the actual return earned in the course of the
twelve-month period immediately preceding such
year; and (2) the return which, on the basis
of reasonable estimates, is expected to be earned
in the course of the twelve-month period beginning
with such year, after adding to or subtracting
from the estimated operating income for such
period any overrun or shortfall in the actual
return for the preceding twelve-month period;
and
(ii) furnish to the Bank the assumptions for and the
results of such calculations; and
(d) if any such calculation shall show that the Borrower
cannot be expected to earn in respect of its Telephone Department
the return required under paragraph (b) during the twelve-month
period commencing with the calendar year in which the calcula-
tion is made, the Borrower shall, not later than April 30 of
such year take all action necessary or advisable on its part for
adjusting its tariffs for the services provided by the Telephone
Department accordingly, and the adjusted tariffs shall be brought
into effect by September 1 of such year.
Section 5.08. The Borrower shall obtain the concurrence of
the Bank before committing itself to, or making, any capital
expenditure related to its telephone operations (excluding those
capital expenditures committed or made under the Telephone Invest-
ment Program, including the Project) if the aggregate of such
capital expenditure and all such other capital expenditures made
or to be made in any one fiscal year exceed or will exceed an
amount equivalent to two million dollars ($2,000,000).
Section 5.09. The Borrower shall allocate all funds generated
by the Telephone Department exclusively to such Department and


﻿- 11 -
shall not transfer such funds, or any portion thereof, to any of
its other Departments unless the funds proposed to be transferred
are in excess of those required by the Telephone Department to
cover all: (i) administrative, operating and maintenance expenses,
including the adequate funding of such reserves in respect of the
Borrower's telephone operations as shall be consistent with
appropriate public utility and business practices; (ii) repayment
of loans (including sinking fund payments), interest aid other
charges on debt; and (iii) capital expenditures under the Tele-
phone Investment Program, including the Project; provided,
however, that any such transfer shall be treated as a loan from
the Telephone Department to the other Departments, on commercial
terms and conditions.
Section 5.10. The Borrower shall: (i) by September 1, 1981,
carry out, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, a
study on the structure of the Borrower's telephone tariffs
and rates; (ii) by January 31, 1981, furnish to the Bank for its
approval, the terms of reference refelred to in (i) hereof;
(iii) by October 31, 1981, discuss with the Bank the conclusions
of such study; (iv) by December 15, 1981, prepare and furnish
to the Bank a program, satisfactory to the Bank, based on the
conclusions of such study; and (v) by April 15, 1982, put into
effect such program.
ARTICLE VI
Amendment of the
Power Loan Agreements
Section 6.01. The First Power Loan Agreement, the Second
Power Loan Agreement, the Third Power Loan Agreement and the
Fourth Power Loan Agreement are hereby amended by the deletion of
the text of Section 5.03 of each such agreement, respectively, and
the substitution therefor of the text of Section 5.04 of this
Agreement.
.Section 6.02. The Power Loan Agreements are hereby amended
by the deletion of the texts of Sections 5.09 of the First Power
Loan Agreement, the Second Power Loan Agreement and the Third
Power Loan Agreement, respectively, and the text of Section
5.05 of the Fourth Power Loan Agreement, and the substitution
therefor of the text of Section 5.06 of this Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
Section 6.03. The Power Loan Agreements are hereby amended
by the deletion of the texts of Sections 5.10 of the First Power
Loan Agreement, the Second Power Loan Agreement and the Third
Power Loan Agreement, respectively, and the text of Section
5.06 of the Fourth Power Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Bank
Section 7.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) the Estatutos or any provision thereof shall have been
amended, suspended or abrogated so as to affect adversely the
operations or financial condition of the Borrower or the perform-
ance by the Borrower of its obligations under the Loan Agreement;
and
(b) a default shall have occurred in the performance of
any obligation (other than an obligation to pay monies) on the
part of the Borrower or the Guarantor under the Power Loan Agree-
ments or the Power Guarantee Agreements.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional -!vents are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the events specified
in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 7.01 of this Agreement shall
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VIII
Termination
Section 8.01. The date ktCAfSe   Iqct 14r.1 is hereby speci-
fied for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Addresses
Section 9.01. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 13 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:     -
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Empresas Pfiblicas de Medellfn
Medellfn
Colombia
Cable address:                       Telex:
EMPRESAS                            6582 EPM CO
Medellfn
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By  %UC1          ?    l 0I      A Q+C.
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
EMPRESAS PUBLICAS DE MEDELLIN
By    SA uh oi Qe                  s4 etativ
Authorized Representative


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Local Exchange                18,700,000       100% of foreign
Switching                                     expenditures
Equipment                                     and 94% of
local expendi-
tures
(2) Cables                        13,300,000       100% of foreign
expenditures
and 94% of lo-
cal expendi-
tures
(3) Subscribers'                   3,400,000       100% of foreign
Plant                                         expenditures
and 94% of lo-
cal expendi-
tures
(4) Public Call                    1,900,000       100% of foreign
Office                                        expenditures
Telephones
(5) Unallocated                    6,700,000
TOTAL         44,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for


﻿- 15 -
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuf-
ficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount


﻿- 16 -
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's telephone development
program and consists of the following Parts:
(a) Acquisition of about 108,400 local exchange switching
equipment and the installation of such equipment in areas cur-
rently operated by the Borrower.
(b) Installation of about 90,000 subscribers' connections
and the acquisition of the cables and subscribers' plants required
for such installation.
(c) Acquisition of cables and subscribers' plants to enable
the installation of about 10,000 additional subscribers' connec-
tions, for which local exchange equipment lines have been already
contracted by the Borrower.
(d) Acquisition and installation of about 3,000 Public Call
Office Telephones to serve mainly urban and rural low-income
communities in the areas served by the Borrower.
(e) Construction of building extensions to house Project
equipment.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1984.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning December 1, 1984
through   December 1, 1996                  1,690,000
On June 1, 1997                                  1,750,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿19
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                   1.45%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                                   2.90%
More than six years but
not more than eleven
years before maturity                             5.35%
More than eleven years but
not more than fifteen
years before maturity                             7.30%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                   8.25%


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and.
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than sixty days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender documents relating thereto, a general
procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods in 4uestion. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Colombia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿- 21 -
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Colombia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Colombia equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 22 -
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed re;ort on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed 'copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the delivery to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank


﻿- 23 -
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 5
Method for Calculating Rate of Return
1.   The annual return specified in Section 5.07 (b) of this
Agreement will be calculated, in each calendar year in respect
of the twelve-month period beginning with such year and the
twelve-month period immediately preceding, by using as the
denominator the average between the net current values of the
respective fixed Telephone Assets in operation at the beginning
and at the end of each such period and as numerator the operating
income of the Telephone Department for the same period.
2.    Any shortfall or overrun in the required annual return for
the twelve-month period immediately preceding the year in which
the calculation is to be made will be carried forward and sub-
tracted or added, as the case may be, to the numerator used for
the forthcoming twelve-month period.
3.    "Operating income of the Telephone Department" will be the
difference between (i) all revenues generated by the telephone
operations, and (ii) all administrative and operating costs
relating thereto, including taxes, if any, and maintenance and
adequate provision for straight-line depreciation on the average
gross value of revalued fixed Telephone Assets in operation, but
excluding interest and other charges on debt.
4.   The net current value of fixed assets in operation will be at
any given date their gross value less accumulated depreciation to
such date, as revalued and depreciated in accordance with para-
graphs 5 and 7 below.
5.   Until another method for the maintenance of value of assets
of the Borrower shall have been established, the gross value o*
the fixed Telephone Assets in operation and works in progress will
be revalued annually in accordance with a method satisfactory to
the Bank which shall reflect the corresponding variations in the
Indice nacional de precios al consumidor - Obreros - published
by the Departamento Administrativo Nacional de EstadIstica of
the Guarantor, to the last month preceding the year in which
the calculation is to be made and the combined effect of new
technology improvement and economies of scale which would reduce
the value of the Telephone Assets.


﻿- 25 -
6.   The Borrower will furnish to the Bank by September 30,
1980, a report on the revaluation of assets for fiscal year 1979.
For succeeding years, the Borrower will furnish to the Bank during
the first quarter of each fiscal year a report on the revaluation
of assets through the end of the preceding fiscal year.
7.   Depreciation will be charged on a straight-line basis over
the estimated useful life of the fixed Telephone Assets.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /9      day of      ,198
FOR SECRETARY


