Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P7448-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED FIRST PROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$404.04 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
April 26, 2001
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Real (RsS)
EXCiANGE RATE
199SR$S121 - USSI
l999RsSi.79- USS1
April2001 Rd 2.l7- USSI
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January I -December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAA                                                           Analytic and Advisory Activity
ADR                                                           American Depository Receipt
BB            Banco do Brasil                                 Bank of Brazil
BCB           Banco Central do Brasil                         Central Bank of Bmzil
BM&F                                                          Commodities and Future Exchange
BNDESpar    Banco National de Desenvolvimento Economico e
Social
BOVESPA       Bolsa de Valores de So Paulo                   Stock Exchange of Brazil (Sao Paulo)
CAIXA         Caixa Economica Federal                         National tnfrastrucrtureHousing Bank
CAMELS                                                        Bank Rating System
CAS           Estrategia de Assistencia para o Pais           Country Assistance Strategy
CBLC          Companhia Brasileira de Liquidacao e Custodia   Brazilian Custodian and Settlement
Company
CETIP         Central de Custddia e de Liquidacao Financeira de   Central Custody and Settlement of
Titulos                                        Securities
CMN           ConseBho Monetario Nacional                     National Monetary Council
CPI
CPMF          Contribuicao Provis6ria sobre Movimentacao      Temporary Tax on Financial Transactions
Financeira
CVM           Commisao de Valores Mobiliarios do Brasil       Brazil Securities & Exchange Commission
DVP           Entrega contra pagamnento                       Deiivery versus payment
ESW                                                           Economic and Sector Work
FASB                                                          Financial Accounting Standards Board
FDI                                                           Foreign Direct Investment
FGC           Fondo Garantidor de Creditos                    Credit Insurance Fund
GCI                                                           Global Consolidated Inspection
GDP           Produto Intemo Bruto                            Gross Domestic Product
IAS                                                           International Accounting Standards
IDB           Banco tnteramericano de Desenvolvimento         Inter-American Development Bank
IFC                                                           International Finance Corporation
IMF           Fundo Monetario Intemacional                    International Monetary Fund
IOF           Imposto sobre Operacoes Financeiras             Tax on Financial Operations
IOSCO                                                         International Organization of Securities
Commissions
MOF           Ministerio da Fazenda                           Ministry of Finance
NGO                                                           Non-govemmental Organization
OECD                                                          Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development
ON                                                            Voting Share
PFRSAL        Emprestimo Programatico de Ajuste Estrutural de    Programmatic Fiscal Reform Structural
Reforma Fiscal                                 Adjustment Loan
PFSECAL                                                       Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment
Loan
PN                                                            Preference Share
PPA           Plano Plurianual                                Multi-Annual Plan
PROER         Programa de Estimulao  Reestruturago c ao       Restructuring and Strengthening of the
Fortalecimento do Sistema Financeiro Nacional  National Financial System
PROES         Programa de Incentivo a Reducro do Setor Publico   Reduction of State level participation in
Estadual na Atividade Bancaria                 banking activities
RTGS                                                          Real-time Gross Senlement
SELIC         Servico Especial de Liquidacao e Custodia       Special System of Custody and Settlement
of Federal Securities
SIPS                                                          Systematically Important Payment Systems
SISBACEN       Banco Central Information System                Information System of the Central Bank
SPC           Secretaria de Previdencia Complementar          Secretariat of Complementary Pension
System
sss                                                           Securities Senlement Systems
STR            Sistema de Transferencia de Reserves
SUSEP         Superintendencia de Seguros Privados            Superintendency of Pension Insurance
TA                                                            Technical Assistance
Vice President                        David de Ferranti
Brazil Country Director               Gobind T. Nankani
Brazil Lead Economist                 Joachim von Amsberg
Sector Director                       Danny M. Leipziger
Task Manager                          Stefan Alber



Brazil    FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
First Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Operation
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY ......................................................V
I.  INTRODUCTION ................................................1
I                   I. LINKS TO POVERTY REDUCTION.                                                                             3
III. RECENT MACROECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS.                                                                                        6
IV. FINANCIAL SYSTEM: DEVELOPMENTS, ISSUES, AND REFORMS.                                                                       9
A.    Overall Financial System Features and Cross-Cutting Issues ...........................................                9
B.    The Banking System .......................                                 ....................................      14
C.  Banking Soundness and Safety Net .......................                                                               17
D. Securities Markets ........................                                                                            20
E  Payments System ....................... 21
V. THE PROPOSED LOAN .22
A. Program Objectives of the Proposed Loan.                             ................... .......... 22
B.    Reform Program supported by the Bank .............................                                                  23
C.    Description of Financial Assistance .............................                                                   26
D. Environment ..............................                                                                             28
E. Benefi ts .............................28
F.  Risks and Risk Mitigation .............................                                                                29
VI. RECOMMENDATION .31
Annexes
Annex 1:  Letter of Sector Development Policy ...........................................................................    33
Annex 2:  Matrix of Actions, Indicators and Goals ........................................................................    44
Annex 3:  Matrix of Financial Sector Reform Program ...........................             .......................................  47
Annex 4:  Brazil's Banking Sector: Structure, Performance and Issues ................................................    53
Annex 5:  Deposit Insurance & Bank Failure Resolution ......................               .........................................  63
Annex 6:  Brazil's Capital Markets - Challenges and Reform  Agenda ................................................    75
Annex 7:  Brazil's Payments, Clearance and Settlement Reform  ...............                 .......................................  89
Annex 8:  Status of Bank Group Operations ...............................................................................         99
Annex 9:  Statement of IFC's Held and Disbursed Portfolio ............................................................   100
Annex 10: Brazil at a Glance ..................................................................................                  102
This Report has been prepared under the guidance of Augusto de la Torre (Regional Financial Services
Advisor). Important contributions were made by Anjali Kumar, Thorsten Beck, Roberto Troster (consultant),
Joachim von Amsberg, Mauricio Carrizosa, Walter Zunic, Hoon Sahib Soh and Massimo Cirasino. Peer
reviewers included James Hanson, Thomas Glaessner and Juan Costain. Task Management was provided by
Stefan Alber. Micky Ananth contributed processing logistics.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






BRAZIL
FIRST PROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:         Federative Republic of Brazil
Implementing      Central Bank of Brazil and Brazilian Securities and Exchange
Agencies:         Commission
Poverty Category:  Not Applicable.
Amount:           US$404.04 million.
Terms:            Fixed-spread loan in US dollars, with a repayment period of 12 years
including five years of grace.
Commitment Fee:  0.85% per annum during the first four years and 0.75% per annum
thereafter on undisbursed loan amounts, beginning to accrue sixty days
after the loan agreement is signed.
Front-End Fee     1% of the loan amount, to be financed under the loan.
Objective:        The broad-based and comprehensive financial sector reform program
pursued by the authorities and supported by the Bank would underpin
economic growth, contribute to poverty reduction in the long run, and
avoid their reversal through financial crisis prevention. In addition to
reforms supported by the Bank's programmatic operations, the
Government's overall reform agenda includes politically difficult reforms
such as constitutional amendments needed to permit fundamental financial
sector legislation as well as streamlining/restructuring of the federal
banks. Its effectiveness hinges crucially on the consolidation of price
stability and fiscal discipline, without which the benefits of the program
would not be realized.
Description:      Actions supported by the proposed Loan focus on reforms that already
enjoy broad political support and are within the implementation capacity
of the executive branch. Thus, the progranimatic subset comprises:
a) Actions to raise efficiency in fmancial intermediation and broaden
access to financial services by: improving the infrastructure of credit
contract enforcement, debtor information, and the payments system;
fostering securities market development; removing obstacles that limit
the expansion of financial services to the under-served population; and
reducing government-imposed intermediation costs;
b) Reforms to enhance financial system transparency and the
effectiveness of regulation and supervision for both the banking
v



system  and securities markets.   These include:  strengthening
prudential norms and their enforcement; rationalizing the divi;ion of
responsibilities among supervisory agencies; enhancing instiltitional
capacity of the supervisory agencies; upgrading disclosui e and
accounting standards; and improving corporate governance for
companies;
c) Steps to bolster defenses against financial crisis by: improv:ng the
functionality of key components of the safety net-bank failure
resolution and deposit insurance system-and raising prepar.-dness
through more effective contingency crisis planning.
Benefits           The Reform program will contribute to growth, poverty reduction and
increased crisis preparedness. In terms of the supported subset of reforms,
efficiency of intermediation will contribute to the depth of fit ancial
intermediation provided by the private sector and broaden acczss to
financial services for the underbanked population. Banking system
soundness measures will contribute to sounder operations of both public
and private banks, improve the efficiency of bank exit processe,, and
strengthen the capacity to prevent a crisis and to respond without
improvisation once it effectively occurs. The initiatives under payments
and securities clearance and settlement will reduce systemic risk and
Central Bank exposure to risk of loss in the settlement of payments, and
bring about efficiency gains in the payment system. In securities
markets, it is expected that investors' demand for securities vAill be
increased, that gradually medium term finance will reach medium sized
enterprises and that more effective capital market regulatory struztures
will become a reality. The companion technical assistance loan will be
contributing to the knowledge underpinnings required for these benefits to
be realized.
Risks              a) Macroeconomic Risks: Today, Brazil is better equipped to wit]-stand
external shocks when compared with the pre-1998 period. This new
robustness is owed to several factors, among them the stronl, and
institutionalized fiscal reforms themselves, the increased credibility that
has been built with respect to inflation and macroeconomic management,
and improvements in the composition of Brazil's public debt through an
active debt management effort. Over the last years, the Government has
shown great capacity to manage risks, pursue structural reforms and stay
the course on fiscal adjustment.
b) Risk of Weakening Reform Consensus: The comprehensiveness and
pace of the reform program will be sustained by the continued credibility
of the policy approach of the current economic team, working
collaboratively across the Central Bank, Ministry of Finance and
regulatory agencies, and their support by the President of the Republ: c, all
within a benign political environment.  A key risk is that adverse
vi



economic shocks damage this credibility and that, as a result, the reform
program increasingly face political difficulties. The drive for legislative
reform could become less intense which could cause reforms to be delayed
but not abandoned. These risks are mitigated by the Government's tested
ability to build and sustain consensus, by the underlying merits of the
reforms underway, and by the strong undercurrent of support by the
private financial sector.
c) Risk of Institutional Weakness: Another risk is institutional as
several institutions will be contributing to the pace of reform and not all
are at the same level of development. The Central Bank is the strongest
institution and few set backs are expected. However, the regulatory
institutions in capital markets, pension, and insurance are at far lesser
stage of institutional development and their progress in taking up new
tasks may be punctuated by set-backs. The Bank's new technical
assistance loan will be designed to provide support to mitigate technical
and human resource constraints.
Financing Plan     Not Applicable
Net Present Value   Not Applicable
Project            PE-PO-70640-LEN-BB
Identification
Number
vii






MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED FIRST PROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL
SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
I.  INTRODUCTION
1.   This memorandum proposes a Single-Tranche First Programmatic Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan (First PFSECAL) to the Federative Republic of Brazil in an amount of
US$404.04 million. The Loan would support an ongoing and far-reaching program of financial
sector reforms. It is anticipated that this programmatic lending will include, in addition to the
proposed Loan, up to two further loans depending on the pace and depth of future reform
implementation, for a total amount up to US$1.2 billion. A new US$14.5 million companion
technical assistance loan is also proposed to facilitate the achievement of the reforms targeted for
the next stages of programmatic lending.
Objectives and Basic Coverage of the Program
2.   The broad-based and comprehensive financial sector reform program pursued by the
authorities and supported by the Bank would underpin economic growth, contribute to
poverty reduction in the long run, and avoid their reversal through financial crisis
prevention. The Government's overall and comprehensive reform program is presented in the
matrix of Annex 3. In addition to reforms supported by the Bank's programmatic operations, the
overall reform agenda includes politically difficult reforms such as constitutional amendments
needed to permit fundamental financial sector legislation as well as streamlining/restructuring of
the federal banks. Its effectiveness hinges crucially on the consolidation of price stability and
fiscal discipline, without which the benefits of the program would not be realized. Over the
medium term, the Program's goals and outcomes (see para. 88 and Table 1) include:
operational institutionalization of monetary policy independence;
rationalization of financial sector regulation;
increased efficiency and depth of financial intermediation;
broadened access to financial services, especially for the poor;
banking soundness of both public and private banks; and
* deeper securities' markets.
3.   The subject of reforms supported by the proposed lending focuses on reforms that already
enjoy broad political support and are within the implementation capacity of the executive branch.
Thus, the programmatic subset (see also matrix in Annex 2) comprises:
a) Actions to raise efficiency in financial intermediation and broaden access to financial
services by: improving the infrastructure of credit contract enforcement, debtor information,
and the payments system; fostering securities market development; removing obstacles that
1



limit the expansion of financial services to the under-served population; and reducing
government-imposed intermediation costs.
b) Reforms to enhance financial system transparency and the effectiveness of regulation and
supervision for both the banking system  and securities markets.   These include:
strengthening prudential norms and their enforcement; rationalizing the division of
responsibilities among supervisory agencies; enhancing institutional capacity of the
supervisory agencies; upgrading disclosure and accounting standards; and improv.ng
corporate governance for companies.
c) Steps to bolster defenses against financial crisis by: improving the functionality of key
components of the safety net-bank failure resolution and deposit insurance system-and
raising preparedness through more effective contingency crisis planning.
Strategic Juncture for Financial Sector Reform and Bank Support
4.   Under the Program, World Bank support would become available to Brazil ail: a
strategic juncture that is unusually favorable to meaningful progress in financial sector
reform. This juncture is largely the result of a successful process, initiated with the 1994 Real
Plan, that has restored macroeconomic stability-as evidenced by the impressive defeat of
inflation-and forged ahead with structural reforms, particularly in the fiscal, financial sector,
and privatization fields. Macroeconomic stabilization endured and was consolidated despite :he
severe financial turbulence that led to the exchange rate crisis of early 1999, and this has resul-:ed
in considerable credibility gains for economic policy and policy makers, both at home and
abroad. The associated reduction in the level and volatility of interest rates has created conditions
and favorable expectations for a deepening and broadening of financial intermediation, and for a
gradual move towards the lengthening of maturities.  And the major progress towa;-ds
institutionalizing fiscal discipline-particularly through the recently approved Fis :al
Responsibility Law-has created market optimism that similar institutionalization is forthcoming
with respect to monetary and financial prudence.
5.  In short, a window of opportunity now exists for the acceleration and consolidation of
financial sector reform. Timely and decisive World Bank financial and knowledge support
would help back-stop this process. Fortunately, the Bank is in a privileged position to provide
this support, for it has maintained an active and fruitful dialogue on financial sector matters with
the Brazilian authorities over the past years, including importantly through technical assistar.ce
lending to the Central Bank of Brazil (approved in 1997) and extensive analytical financial sec ;or
work carried out mainly in 2000.
IMF Relations
6.   The IMF has supported Brazil's overall adjustment program  since 1998 under a
stand-by agreement that is due to expire in December 2001. Brazil has been successfully
implementing this program to generate primary surpluses that are consistent with a sustainable
public sector net debt path. For 1999-01, Brazil's fiscal performance exceeded its public sec..or
primary surpluses targets of 3. 1% and 3.25% of GDP respectively for 1999 and 2000. The targets
2



for 2001 and 2002 have been revised to 3.0% and 3.0% respectively, and are expected to be met.
These targets provide the overall fiscal framework for the proposed PFSECAL.
7.   Throughout the period of the IMF stand-by agreement, the Bank and Fund have
been in regular consultations on the adjustment program, and there has been close
collaboration1. It is expected that, after expiration of the stand-by agreement, the IMF will
continue reviewing macroeconomic and fiscal performance through their annual Article IV
consultations. Moreover, the Bank will also continue to monitor macroeconomic policies,
including fiscal policies and management, together with the authorities and in coordination with
the IMF. It is expected that early identification of possible areas of concern will lead to
corrective actions by the Government, as appropriate, thus ensuring a satisfactory
macroeconomic situation for the effective implementation of the program supported by the
PFSECAL.
8.   Within an effective division of labor in the financial sector, the IMF is supporting the
Government on macroeconomic policies. The Bank, building on ongoing support to the
authorities through Technical Assistance lending and non-lending services, is supporting the
Government on structural sector reforms, including those supported by the proposed Loan. In
particular, the Bank has supported the Central Bank over an extended period of time in
improving banking supervision and strengthening the banking safety net. Further deepened
assistance will be provided through the new Technical Assistance lending and selected Bank
AAA work.
II. LINKS TO POVERTY REDUCTION
9.   The Government has committed itself to the objective of reducing Brazil's rate of
extreme poverty by 50% by the year 2015. The strategy to achieve this objective includes
sustained and broad-based economic growth based on economic and financial stability,
investments in the poor through better education, health and other social services as well as
improved access to physical capital through land reform and enhanced access to credit for SMEs
and small farmers, and enhanced social protection including social assistance and transfer
payments linked to school attendance (Bolsa Escola). World Bank financed projects support
several elements of this poverty reduction strategy.
10. World Bank analysis shows that the Government's poverty reduction goal can be achieved
through a combination of 4.5% annual growth, continued increases in educational outcomes, and
further improvements in other social policies. Even though the reforms supported by the
proposed loan are, for the most part, not directly targeted to the poor, they are considered
essential for achieving broad-based and sustainable growth, and thus essential for achieving the
overall poverty reduction goal. Specifically, the proposed reforms would have a bearing on
poverty reduction by: increasing long-term growth; improving the capacity to deal with
volatility and mitigate cycles; enhancing preparedness for, and reducing the probability of,
financial crises; and broadening access to financial services. These are discussed in turn.
1 Over the past two years, there were jointly staffed Bank missions and the 2000 Basle Core Principle Report was jointly
prepared.
3



Increasing Long Term Growth
1 1.  Strong evidence from  empirical studies2 has firmly established a causal link running
from financial system depth and soundness to economic growth. Indeed almost any
reasonable measure of financial development at a point in time can help predict subsequent
economic growth even after account is taken of other determinants of growth.3 The finan ial
sector reforms supported by this loan would help increase long-term growth through their impact
on real interest rates and productivity. Specifically, the measures to enhance efficiency of
intermediation and reduce risk of bank failures should help reduce real lending interest rates
gradually over the medium term and avoid the spikes in these rates that have inhibited growtlh in
the past. The adverse impact of higher interest rates on growth in Brazil has been found tc be
significant and powerful.4  Improvements sought in the program for supervision, credit cont:act
enforcement, debtor information systems, minority shareholder protection, etc. will enhance the
financial sector's capacity to perform its basic functions of mobilizing savings, allocating capital,
monitoring corporate managers, and transforming risk, all with a positive bearing on total factor
productivity. As estimated by the McKinsey Global Institute, the possible effect of increased
productivity on growth in Brazil is very large.5
12. Evidence from Brazil confirms the well-
known causal linkages from  growth to poverty                    Figure 1: Brazil - Poverty and
reduction.        For   example,   while   Brazil                GDP: 1988-99 Selected Years
experienced a major reduction in poverty during                                                      5%
the 1970s when growth was high, poverty during
the stagnant 1 980s increased.   More recently,   m           140             .   ___               30%
poverty increased with negative growth between    a'
1988 and the early 1990s, declined with higher                130                                      
growth from  1993 to 1996, and increased slightly         CO
with no growth in  1998 and  1999 (Figure  1).   . x0%
Similarly, comparisons across states show  lower              1  110       -'
poverty  ratios for the  richer states.   Brazil's
experience   reflects  the   wider  international             100                                   o0%
experience, which  clearly  shows the effect of                   1988 1990 1993 1995 1997 1998 1999
growth on poverty reduction, with a recent study                                                   'rear
(Dollar and Kraay, 2000) suggesting that growth                  Per Capita GDP -     Poverty Ratio
in per capita GDP would raise almost one-for-one
the income of the poor.6
2 For instance, King and Levine, 1993; Levine, Loayza and Beck, 2000
3 See World Bank, Finance for Growth, December 20, 2000, which shows the impact of financial depth (ratio of private credit to
GDP) on growth. Brazil's ratio of private credit to GDP is well below the average for middle income countries, suggesting a
large scope for improvement which would enhance productivity and.
4 See IMF, Brazil - Selected Issues and Statistical Appendix, SM/00/25 1, November 10, 2000, Section VII.
5 See McKinsey Global Institute (McKinsey Brazil Office), "Productivity - The Key to an Accelerated Development Path for
Brazil", Sao Paulo, Washington, March 1998, p.1.
6 See Dollar, David and Kraay, Aart, "Growth is Good for the Poor", The World Bank, 2000. The salutary impact of growth cn
poverty reduction is supported by extensive research, including Gallup, John Luke; Radelet, Steven; and Warner, Andrew,
"Economic Growth and the Income of the Poor", Harvard Institute for International Development, November 1998; Roemer,
4



Cushioning Volatility
13. Availability of financial services would enable the poor better to confront sharp
economic fluctuations. Strong financial systems play a primary role as absorbers of shocks, as
they shelter and diversify savings. In Brazil, Argentina, and Mexico, for example, shallow
domestic financial markets have magnified credit and output slowdowns originated in
international financial market turbulence, impacting adversely on the poor. While incomes of
the rich are subject to greater volatility, small fluctuations in the income and savings of the poor
have a more devastating impact. Having access to safe savings and credit would, for instance,
help poor farmers not only invest in equipment and technology but also protect themselves
against adverse weather conditions and other shocks that would otherwise push them into deeper
poverty, wiping out the fruits of many years of work.
Enhancing Preparedness and Reducing Probability of Crises
14. Financial crises have entailed huge fiscal costs that crowded out social spending. The
fiscal costs of banking crises have been very large in several countries, ranging from about 4
percent of GDP in the year of the crises to as much as 50 percent the 1999 Indonesia crisis.7 In
the case of Brazil, the crisis of 1995 had a fiscal cost of about 13 percent of GDP8. With such a
decline in fiscal resources, the public sector must adjust other expenditures. Since a large
percentage of Brazil's budget is comprised by social expenditures, the adverse fiscal effects of a
financial crisis would have a negative effect on programs that help the poor. Financial crises
would, furthermore, raise the risk of a return to inflationary finance, a form of taxation that is
typically borne disproportionately by those in lower income brackets.
15.  But the adverse effects of financial crisis    Figure 2: East Asia Poverty before
on poverty are much broader and persistent.              and after The Financial Crisis
Badly  managed  financial crises  cause  severe         Poveoy rate (p¢ cent)
disruption  to  economic  flows (production  and        40
commercialization  processes)  but  these  pale
compared  to  the  destruction  caused,  almost         30
instantaneously, of significant parts of a country's
capital  stock   (as  investment  projects  get         20
discontinued, firms go bankrupt and their assets go
into rapid decay, etc.). Importantly, banking crises ,o              i
imply the obliteration of informational stocks banks
build over many years and of that intangible but        O
most crucial asset: confidence.   As a result,            Ne   ,erl`   S    toLeO99 forh
InoisL and: TDIua vluxnd.1,49fr S. kYorm  wc
financial crises not only result in a significant      an "ou"c,,ld   Pavcm i,'s 
prday a      'ep o   ma wbcre
increase in poverty; they also lead to a one-off    iI.e ai6w,al cti&LruurabaW st p~cT diay is tKd
decline in the growth path, which translates into  _      _    __e_ W_dd _      __nk_
Michael and Gugerty, Mary Kay, "Does Economic Growth Reduce Poverty", Harvard Institute for International Development,
March 1997.
7 See The World Bank, Finance for Growth, December 20, 2000, p.77.
8 See Honohan and Klingebiel (2000) and Caprio and Klingebiel (1999)
5



persistent effects on poverty, indeed setting back poverty reduction for years (Figure 2). More
recently, crises in Venezuela (1994), Mexico (1995), and Ecuador (1998) significantly increased
the incidence of poverty.9
Broadening Access to Financial Services
16. The Program will take initial steps towards broadening the availability of basic
financial services to the under-served segments of the population. Key measures to address
this matter in Brazil are improvements in credit contract enforcement (including collateral use
and repossession) and in debtor information systems, which would reduce risk in lending. These
would make the supply of credit larger, cheaper, and more available to lower-income househol is
and to micro, small and medium enterprises that would otherwise be rationed out of the forrral
credit circuit. The potential impact of better access to credit is Brazil is large: about 95 percent
of registered firms in Brazil are enterprises with less than 100 workers and account for about 46
percent of registered workers. Policy studies to determine the incentives for private
intermediaries to enter the small financial services market are under discussion.
III. RECENT MACROECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS
Success in Disinflation
17.  Since the inception of the Real Plan in mid-1994, Brazil has been making notable and
steady progress towards conquering inflation. It was, furthermore, able to steer back towards
this path rapidly after the exchange rate crisis of early-1999, aided by competent macroeconomic
policy management. In effect, 12-month consumer price inflation fell dramatically from ov >r
2477 percent per annum at end-1993 to less than 2 percent at end-1998. It then rose to 9 perce!,it
by end-1999 (the Real depreciated by 50 percent in that year) before falling again, to 6 perce:at
by end-2000. With core inflation low and with the improved fiscal and monetary policy
frameworks and management (see below), the inflation targets of 4.0 and 3.5 percent for 20(1
and 2002, respectively, remain realistic, barring major external shocks.
External, Monetary and Fiscal Underpinnings
18. The disinflation process benefited initially from a favorable external environment.
Brazil registered a major surge in capital inflows between 1992 and mid-1998 (briefly
interrupted by the Tequila effect of 1995), as trade reform and privatization helped it attract a
large share of the boom in capital flows to emerging markets that characterized that pericd
(Figure 3, Chart 1). This favorable external financing environment contributed significantly lO
the success of the exchange-rate-based anti-inflation program in effect through 1998. Portfolio
flows dominated total inflows in the early stages and displayed high volatility, with a massixe
reversal in 1998 causing international reserves to fall by US$24 billion between their peak in end
of 1996 and the end of 1999. By contrast, foreign direct investment (FDI) inflows increased
9 See De Ferranti, David and Perry, Guillermo, Securing our Future in a Global Economy, Chapter 5, p. 78.
6



steadily and steeply since 1994-a trend that was not reversed by the exchange rate crisis of
early-1999 and has continued through 2000.10
19. After the shift in early-1999 to a floating exchange rate regime, price stabilization has
been underpinned by the introduction of an inflation targeting system for monetary policy
and by important steps to address the structural sources of the fiscal deficit. Most notable
in this latter respect was the approval in May 2000 of the Fiscal Responsibility Law, a major
move towards institutionalizing fiscal discipline.11  Additionally, the Bank provided reforn
support with its recently approved Programmatic Fiscal Reform Structural Adjustment Loan for
US$750 million. As a result, the primary position (fiscal balance excluding interest payments) of
the consolidated public sector shifted from an average deficit on about 0.3 percent of GDP in
1996-98 to a surplus of about 3.2 percent of GDP in 1999 (Figure 3, Charts 2 and 3).
Nonetheless, public sector debt rose from 35 percent to GDP in 1997 to 53.4 percent in January
1999, mainly because the real devaluation. Since then, debt to GDP levels have fallen to 49.6%
and are expected to remain stable below 50%.
Interest Rates and Aggregate Credit
20.  Macroeconomic stability has led to a decline in interest rates, albeit not in tandem
with inflation, and to a rekindling of credit growth, particularly since mid-2000. Interest
rates are still high (see Figure 3, Chart 4). Their decline to adequate levels is expected to occur
only gradually over the medium term, particularly as improvements in fiscal performance
decrease the high levels of public sector indebtedness. The fall in nominal interest rates has been
associated with lower interest rate volatility, thus contributing to a reduction in the risk premium
and, through it, to part of the observed narrowing of the (still very high) spreads between deposit
and lending interest rates.12 As indicated before, the impact of interest rates on growth in Brazil
has been statistically significant, as well as the impact of growth on poverty reduction. Lower
interest rates also reduced the risk premium through their salutary effect on the balance sheets of
debtors. '3 Further declines in interest rates will play a fundamental role in raising growth and
increasing the speed of poverty reduction. The other main macroeconomic policy contributor to
the recent reduction in these spreads was the sharp reduction of the reserve requirement on
demand (from 75 to 45 percent) and time deposits (from 30 percent to zero). The stabilization of
the macro economy and the associated reduction in interest rates and their volatility have
stimulated an initial resumption in bank credit. Albeit from a relatively small base, banking
system credit has grown very fast. In the last months of 2000, total bank credit expanded at an
10Includingprivatization-relatedreceipts, FDI inflows went from US$ 1.7 billion in 1994 to US$ 31.4 billion in 1999, before
receding slightly to about US$ 30.6 billion in 2000.
1 l Among other things, this Law permits the creation of a permanent expenditure item only if a new permanent source of revenue
(or a permanent cut in other expenditures) is identified.; sets ceilings on the wage bill and public debt, at the subnational and
national level; and improves transparency and accountability in public finances.
12 An IMF econometric study, "Testing the Effectiveness of the Overnight Interest Rate as Monetary Policy Instrument," in
Brazil: Selected Issues and Statistical Appendix, Country Report No. 01/10, January 2001, concludes that "movements in the
SELIC rate [the overnight interest rate controlled by the Central Bank] have a significant impact [and in the same direction] on
all interest rates, and therefore on lending spreads."
13 Lower inlterest rates improve the net worth of debtors households and enterprises (as their future income is discounted at a
lower discount rate-an effect that is magnified if they are highly leveraged. Hence, lower interest rates reduce credit risk-the
risk that debtor households and firms would default on their loans.
7



annualized rate of about 20 percent while retail credit surged at a rate well over 70 percznt
(Figure 3, Charts 4 and 5). As lending rates are still high, credit growth will have to be closzly
monitored for soundness.
Figure 3 Brazil - Macro Data
Chart 1 External Flows                             Chart 2  Annual Fiscal Position
(US$ billion)                                       (Percent of GDP)
40.0                                                      6.0%
30.0                                                      4.0%
200                                                       2.0%          
100.                                                      0.0% -
00-                                                     -2.0%       *
10 0 - - Current Account         -4.0%
-20 0 - .                       NecCapitalinflow         -6w0%        U
-20.0 -                          DI-6.0
-30.0                                                    -8.0%
-400   -  ________________________________   1  -1~~I0. 0%    P rima ry Ba lanee
-40.0                                              0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N o miria IB a la nce
-12.0%
'9 \9   9    9                                       1997      1998     1999    2000
Chart 3 Public Sector Debt and                          Chart 4  Spread and Interest Rate
International Reserves
(Percent of GDP)                        90.0%                              S
60.0%                                                    80.0%  t-Et 
6 - Public Debt                          70 0%                                 6sp-d
50.0%          E Int Res.                               60.0%
40.0%                                     5~~~~~~~~~0.0%
40.0%                                                    40.0%
40.0%
20.0%                                    2~~~~~~~~~~~30.0%
20.0%                                                   20.0%
10.0%
0.0%     99    9                qE
Chart 5  Year-on-Year Credit Growth                      Chart 6 GDP and Per Capita GDP
Growth Rate
80.0%                                                   7.0% -
70.0%   - ------ Corporate                               6.0%                     MGDPGrowthRate
60.0%             consumer                                                        EPerCapitaGDPGrowthRate
50.0%     -      otai                  -   -            5.0/0
40.0%                                      -            4.0%
30.0%                                                   3.0%
20.0%
10.0%                      ..2.0%
- -- -             ,,.1.0%
-20.0%                                                   0.0%
-30.0%                                                  -1.0%
9oO  99  99   99  99  OO  ,o°  o°  o2 -2.0%
Source: Central Bank of Brazil, IMF
8



Growth and its Short-term Prospects
21. With macroeconomic stability and rising credibility both at home and abroad, Brazil
appears well positioned to prolong the path of higher non-inflationary growth that began in
the latter part of 1999. GDP grew by about 4.5 percent in 2000, following an average of only
0.8 percent per year during 1998-99.  Employment grew by more than 5 percent and
unemployment fell in 2000, even as reentry into the labor force was significant on account of
improved prospects of finding a job. The year 2000 can well mark the beginning of a new phase
of sustainable and robust (poverty reducing) growth, as long as Brazil continues with its
macroeconomic stabilization and structural reform effort and provided that the external
environment remains reasonably benign. Provided, that is, that international market sentiment
does not spread to Brazil on account of problems elsewhere in the developing world and, perhaps
more importantly, that Brazil is not unduly affected by a potential slowdown in the United States
(Figure 3, Chart 6). A strong domestic financial environment is also a necessary condition to
stimulate sustainable growth that leads to increasing employment, thus reducing poverty.
IV. FINANCIAL SYSTEM: DEVELOPMENTS, ISSUES, AND REFORMS
A.  Overall Financial System Features and Cross-Cutting Issues
Financial System Depth and Structure
22. Banks dominate the provision of financial services in Brazil's relatively shallow
financial markets.  Banks are typically at the center of financial conglomerate structures,
normally organized via a holding company. Hence, in value and volume, the vast majority of
financial services-ranging from deposit taking and lending, to leasing and credit cards, to fund
management and insurance, and to securities trading and underwriting-tend to be supplied, if
not by the banks themselves, by their subsidiaries or by sister entities under the same financial
holding. Non-bank financial intermediaries include numerous (about 1200) credit cooperatives,
which operate outside the scope of financial conglomerates, but their assets represent only about
I percent of total assets in the banking system. Nevertheless, it is generally acknowledged that
access is limited, particularly for the poor and small enterprises.
23. Financial assets are held mainly by banks and pension and mutual funds, but capital
markets do not yet constitute a significant alternative to bank finance. Assets of the banking
system amount to about US$ 500 billion (95 percent of GDP). But credit to the private sector
accounts for only 35 percent of GDP (only 33 percent of banking system assets14) which, albeit
similar to the Latin American average, denotes very low credit depth compared to developed
market economies. Furthermore, about one half of bank credit to the private sector is provided
by the state-owned institutions. Domestic market capitalization of equity securities (US$ 230
billion or around 40 percent of GDP) and the stock of debt securities traded in local markets
(US$270 billion or 50 percent of GDP) are high by Latin American standards, but equity markets
are very illiquid and debt securities almost completely dominated by government paper. Capital
markets do not yet represent a significant alternative to banks as a source of finance for private
14 Ratios to GDP use a figure of US$550 billion for 2000.
9



enterprises. Outside the banking system, the largest holders of financial assets in Brazil are
pension funds, either directly or through their mutual funds. Total assets of pension and mutual
funds are estimated at about US$120 billion (22 percent of GDP).
Organization of Supervision and Fundamental Legislation
24.  The organization of regulation and supervision of the financial system features a
large variance in the quality of prudential oversight across supervisory agencies and soime
overlaps in function or gaps in coverage. Regulatory policy for the financial system as a
whole is mainly the responsibility of the Conselho Monetario Nacional (CMN).15 The Cer.tral
Bank of Brazil (BCB)-the strongest and most mature supervisory agency-is in charge of
regulating and supervising the banking system and a multitude of financial institutions (e.g.,
credit cooperatives and buyers clubs). It also has regulatory and oversight powers over d -bt-
oriented mutual funds, the registration of securities' brokers and dealers, monetary and exchange
rate markets, interest and exchange rate derivatives, and the payments system. The Commisdo
de Valores Mobiliarios (CVM), a much less mature regulatory agency, is responsible for the
regulation of equity-oriented mutual funds, securities trading and brokerage activities, and stock-
indexed futures. Due to overlapping functions between BCB and CVM, surveillance of
securities markets can lose effectiveness. Pension fund regulation is under the purview of the
Secretaria de Previdencia Complementar (SPC)16 in the case of closed-end corporate pension
funds, and of the Superintendencia de Seguros Privados (SUSEP) in the case of open-ended
funds. SUSEP is also in charge of regulating and supervising insurance companies.
25. An in-depth rationalization of the organizational arrai;gement for supervision has
been hitherto blocked by the absence of enabling legislation. This, in turn, is related to
constraints imposed by Article 192 of the 1988 Constitution. This article had unrealistically left
a large number of complex but basic financial sector issues (i.e. Central Bank independenice,
foreign bank entry, deposit insurance, interest rate ceilings and the overarching issue of
regulatory and supervisory arrangements) to be regulated by a single enabling law at a later date.
Despite several attempts since 1988 at regulating Article 192, ultimately a lack of legislative
consensus blocked progress.
26. Legislative attitudes appear to be changing, however. A proposal to approv e a
constitutional amendment to permit regulation of Article 192 through a set of enabling laxxs is
under advanced discussion in Congress (it has already been approved by the Senate and is being
discussed at the level of House subcommittees). Such amendment would simplify the contert of
Article 192 considerably and allow the regulation of each financial sector issue by one enabling
law at a time. This would also unblock the development of a Central Bank/Financial System
law, which would propose to reorganize responsibilities for financial sector supervision along
functional lines. That is, allocating systemic oversight to the Central Bank and merging other
oversight functions (investor and consumer protection, accounting and disclosure standards, etc.)
under one umbrella agency, separate from the Central Bank. It would also enhance the Certral
Bank's monetary policy autonomy and accountability-a fundamental institutionalization that
15 The CMN's principal members include Ministry of Finance and Central Bank.
16 SpC is under the Ministry of Social Security and Social Action.
10



would be comparable to that of the recently approved Fiscal Responsibility Law (see footnote 10
above). A draft of the Central Bank/Financial System Law is expected to be ready for public
debate in the near future, but would not be sent to Congress before the mentioned amendment to
Article 192 is approved.
Crowding Out and Short-Termism
27. The Brazilian government-compared to most Latin countries-absorbs an
unusually large share of the domestic stock of financial savings, but fiscal improvements
will gradually allow greater room for the private sector. Domestic financial savings-
defined as the sum of deposits in the banking system and institutional investor funds-are
estimated at around US$245 billion (45 percent of GDP), of which some US$220 billion (40
percent of GDP) are invested in government debt paper. Traditionally high interest rates paid by
the government have provided banks and fund managers little incentive to consider alternative
investments. However, as fiscal discipline becomes more permanent and rates fall further, banks
and fund managers will have to consider private sector risks. To be sure, reductions in the
government's cost of funds would be difficult to achieve for some time because the large stock
of total public debt held by Brazilian residents is of short maturity (it has to be rolled-over
frequently). A lengthening of maturities is taking place due to improved government debt
management.
28. There is no meaningful private market for long-term finance in Brazil. Aside from the
long-term (subsidized) credit granted by the main government's development bank (BNDES),
saving and borrowing contracts are of very short duration. The ratio of long- to short-term debt
for the median Brazilian company is 1.23, compared to an average of 2.20 for OECD countries.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that most small and medium size companies only obtain short-term
bank credit with maturities of at most 90 days. Short-termism in financial contracts are the
inheritance of prior decades of high and highly volatile inflation, exchange, and interest rates.
However, a gradual lengthening of maturities is beginning to take place in response to the record
of macroeconomic stability built over the past 6 years.
Intermediation Spreads
29.  Brazil exhibits one of the highest interest rate spreads in the world; both measured on
the ex-ante as on the ex-post basis. As of December 2000, average spreads (measured ex-ante)
were about 35 percentage points, with spreads for corporate lending at 19 percentage point and
for consumer lending at 51.17 While loan interest rates and spreads have come down recently,
they remain high and well above the Latin American average and continue to pose an important
impediment to the development of the financial sector and thus to economic development.
30.  Intermediation spreads reflect not only intermediation costs and inefficiencies but
also perceptions of risk.  As regards costs and inefficiencies, a recent study by the BCB'8
17 Net interest margins can be measured in different ways, either ex-ante, by considering quoted interest rates for new loans and
deposits, or ex-post, by focusing on the difference between actual interest revenue and interest cost, calculated from banks'
income statements.
18 Central Bank of Brazil, Juros e Spread Bancario no Brasil-Avaliacao do I Ano do Projecto, November 2000.
11



shows that, beyond loan-loss provisions, inefficiency- and cost-based reasons for the hig,h
intermediation margins relate mainly to overhead and to such government-imposed costs is
indirect taxation (principally the tax on financial transactions, CPMF), forced investments (s&e
also para. 12 of Annex 4), and unremunerated reserve requirements (Annex 4). At 7.3 percent )f
assets, overhead costs in Brazilian banks are substantially higher than the Latin American
average and about three times those in OECD banking systems.
31. Explanations for the high overhead costs include limited competitive pressures, not
least because of the underdevelopment of capital markets, and the high costs of contract
enforcement and debtor monitoring. There is evidence (Garcia-Cantera et al. 2001) that
operating costs in the Brazilian banking system may have increased in the past months, despite
the favorable environment of lower interest rates, non-inflationary growth, and lowuer
unremunerated reserve requirements. This suggests that competitive forces, while clearly on the
rise with financial globalization and the entry of foreign banks, are still insufficient to exert
significant pressure on profits and, hence, to force banks to take tough actions to reduce cosTs.
The overwhelming importance of federal banks and their large share in the credit markets is
another important hindrance to creating a more competitive playing field and to rapid progress.
32.  The costs of credit contract enforcement-which raises overhead and perceived
risks-are in part related to inefficient judicial processes for collateral repossession and
corporate reorganization and bankruptcy. Although creditor rights are reasonably specifie d
in the law, Brazil scores low in their enforcement. The inefficiency of the legal system is
evidenced by high congestion rates (ratios of cases pending to cases resolved per judge). In Sao
Paulo the "congestion rate" is 277 percent, as compared to 164 percent in Peru.
33. Debtor screening and monitoring costs also feed into overhead costs and risk
perceptions. More efficient sharing of credit information would help reduce informational rents,
thereby increasing competition between lenders, and disciplining borrowers. Brazil has made
progress towards improving debtor information, through the BCB's Central de Risco (the credit
information system managed by the Central Bank) and private credit bureaus such as SERASA,
but much remains to be done. So far, negative debtor information (e.g., defaults and overdues)
has tended to prevail and positive debtor information (e.g., payment record, collateral) is
generally unavailable.
34.  The Central Bank initiated a broad-based set of actions to foster the gradual
reduction in spreads. These include, first of all, efforts to consolidate macroeconomic
stability-through the reduction in volatility and risk perceptions it is already leading to lower
spreads.19 Beyond this, the Central Bank has directly attacked government-imposed taxes on
intermediation by reducing unremunerated reserve requirements on sight deposits from 75 to 45
percent and on time deposits to zero, and by lowering the IOF tax from 6 to 1.5 percent h:r
individuals (same rate as for corporations). The financial transactions tax (CPMF), which has ;m
important impact on spreads (and adverse disintermediation effects), has not been changed on
account of fiscal objectives, the protection of which is crucial to consolidate macroeconomic
stability. A study to rationalize financial sector taxation while protecting the fiscal position is
19 Garcia-Cantera et al. (2001) attributes much of the recent reductions in the lending spread to the reduction in the level and
volatility of interest rates.
12



under consideration. In addition, the Central Bank has stepped up efforts to foster competition
between banks through enhanced transparency-e.g., by publishing interest rates on the Central
Bank's web site-and actions to develop securities markets (see below). These initiatives are
fundamental to further reduce gradually spreads and interest rates, and thereby encourage further
growth and poverty reduction.
35.  The government has also taken steps to improve the enforcement of credit contracts.
It strengthened an existing contract (Alienacao Fiduciaria) that provides for the automatic
transfer to the creditor of the property title on the collateral, if the debtor defaults. This
facilitates the execution of guarantees and repossession of collateral where warranted. The
government also created a new lending contract (Cedula de Credito Bancario) which enables a
more speedy enforcement of the creditor's rights, if the debtor defaults, because it eliminates any
dispute on the size of the debt. (The size of the overdue interest in particular tends to be a matter
of dispute in the enforcement of other credit contracts.) Although created only via a "provisory
decree," the Cedula is already being used but only to a minor extent in financial markets. The
generalization of its use would have to await the confirmation by law. Finally, creditor rights
would be further clarified and their enforcement further improved if and when the Congress
approves the recently submitted amendments to the Bankruptcy and Reorganization Law (Ley de
Falencias).
36. Finally, reforms are also underway in the area of debtor information. A major
upgrading of the Central de Risco is under implementation. As a result, the Central Bank will
within few months begin disseminating a richer subset of aggregate information on debtors (for a
fee) to the banking system, including positive information that was hitherto lacking. The
intensification of the progress towards greater availability and transparency of informnation on
debtors has been boosted by the recent provisional decree that modified the Secrecy Law (Ley de
Sigilo Bancario). It significantly facilitates the exchange of debtor information between banks
and with the Central Bank and other financial sector regulatory agencies.20 (Prior to this legal
amendment such information could be shared only if debtors provided explicit authorization.)
Furthermore, the amendment clarifies the role of the Central Bank in overseeing and providing
guidelines as to the way in which debtor information would be shared within the financial
system. Improved contract enforcement and debtor information will be key measures to increase
access to credit, including better access by small and medium enterprises that can expand
employment of the poor.
Access tofinancial services
37. Access to financial services is very skewed in Brazil, with large segments of the
population noticeably under-served or completely left out of the formal financial system. It
is estimated that Brazil has about 45 million checking accounts and 44 million saving accounts,
for a population of approximately 170 million people. Probably less than 20 percent of Brazilian
households have access to bank deposit instruments, and even less to bank credit. About 1,680
poorer and arguably less populated municipalities, out of a total of some 5,600 municipalities,
have not a single bank branch. The 1200 or so credit cooperatives offer basic financial services
20 One aspect of the amendment to the Secrecy Law-namely the possibility of sharing information on bank clients with the tax
authorities-is under challenge before the Constitutional Court.
13



only to about 1 million Brazilians. The proportion of the Brazilian households with access to
more sophisticated financial services-such as fund management and insurance products--is
negligible. Micro and small and medium enterprises have limited access to credit, although
several well-run microfinance programs have emerged, including NGO programs and t'ie
CrediAmigo program supported by a Bank loan. (Loan 4554 of May 2000; its main objective is
to support greater access to financial services in the north-east region). Housing finance (other
than for higher-income households) and rural finance are provided almost entirely by the two
large federal banks, Caixa and Banco do Brasil, respectively.
38. The government has begun taking a number of important steps to extend the frontier
of financial services towards the under-served population. The more enforceable credit
contracts and the ongoing program to enhance debtor information, described above, are crucial in
this respect. In particular, improvements in the availability of reliable information on debtcrs
would reduce the costs of debtor screening and monitoring and facilitate the use of credit scoring
models, which could contribute significantly towards making credit available to the under-serv' d
population. Other measures taken by the Central Bank also aim in the same direction. F :r
instance, it has recently authorized banks to use locations other than bank branches-such as
post offices, supermarkets, and lottery points-to make financial services available to population
in remote and poorer areas.  It has also eased restrictions to widen the membership i'Dr
cooperatives while, at the same time, enhancing prudential oversight of cooperatives, x ia
delegated supervision to cooperative associations (which are directly supervised by the Cential
Bank). Better access to financial services will help reduce poverty, in as much as wide access to
financial services helps to protect the poor from adverse economic fluctuations and assist in
employment growth through increased lending to labor intensive small and medium enterprises.
Future actions will include the preparation of a comprehensive strategy, in part with Bank AAA
support. Central Bank will also be monitoring progress in achieving strategic goals.
B.   The Banking System21
Consolidation, Structure, and Performance
39. The Brazilian banking sector has undergone substantial and rapid structural change
and consolidation process since the 1994 Real stabilization plan. A wave of bank failuros,
mergers, and acquisitions was unleashed by a dramatic change in the environment in whi -h
banks operate, with disinflation causing banks to suddenly lose revenues from the so-call .d
"float"22 and the authorities sharply raising the minimum capital and reserve requirements. T le
initial surge in bank consolidation climaxed in 1995-96 with the closure and resolution of 3 of
the then 10 largest banks in Brazil-Economico, Bamerindus, and Nacional. Subsequently, I le
structural change process continued-much less marked by private bank failures but featuring in
almost complete phasing out of state banks (see below) and an increasing presence of foreign-
21 A fuller description and discussion of issues pertaining to the Brazilian banking system is found in Annex 4 of this report.
22 "Float"-related profits were made as banks received the inflation tax that eroded the real value of bank liabilities that bore nw
interest or low interest (e.g., demand deposits, taxes collected and not yet transferred to the government, etc.), while investing
those resources in short-term government securities that paid high interest rates. It is estimated that about 40 percent of bank
revenues in the early 1990s (years of high and volatile inflation) were inflation related.
14



owned banks. In all, more than 40 percent of the operating bank licenses that existed in Brazil at
end- 1993 have since then either changed owners or exited the system via mergers or closure.
40. The banking system (total assets of US$500 billion or 95 percent of GDP) is highly
concentrated and still dominated by public (mainly federal) banks, but foreign bank
presence has risen significantly in recent years. Two first-tier federal banks (Banco do Brasil
and Caixa) are the largest in the country, jointly accounting for 30 percent of the system's assets.
Following in size are three very large private banks, (Itau, Bradesco and Unibanco), jointly
representing 18 percent of assets. Foreign-owned banks have increased their share from 7
percent of the system's assets in 1993 to about 26 percent today (including the recent purchase of
a former state-owned bank, Banespa, by Banco Santander of Spain (Annex 4, Table 3 and 4).
41. On average, Brazilian private banks appear profitable, liquid, and well provisioned
and capitalized. To be sure, under the current flexible exchange rate system, banks can no
longer count on profit windfalls from anticipated exchange rate movements, as happened with
the January 1999 devaluation.23 Hence, to sustain healthy profits under increasing competitive
pressures in the future, banks will have to focus on cost reductions and efficiency gains, a task in
which not all will succeed. Liquid assets represent about 30 percent of total assets, thus
providing a strong cushion against systemic shocks. The other side of the coin of this high
liquidity is, of course, the low share of loans to the private sector in total assets. Loan-loss
provisions are very strong-they represent almost 200 percent of non-performing loans. And
with capital well in excess of what is required to meet the mandatory minimum ratio (11 percent)
of capital to risk-weighted assets, banks have considerable room to increase credit to the private
sector. Macroeconomic stabilization appears to be reducing the uncertainty-driven premium on
the holdings of liquid assets, and this may help explain the recent surge in bank credit growth
(see above).
42. At the current time, risks to systemic stability in the Brazilian banking sector are
considered low.  This is because of the dominant presence of federal banks (whose
creditworthiness is ultimately that of the government), the financial strength of the largest
Brazilian-owned private banks, and the growing presence of highly-rated international banks. In
addition, the unsound major private banks were already removed in the context of the 1995-96
wave of bank failures. Furthermore, the new floating exchange rate system has dimmed the
incentives for Brazilian banks and corporations to take on (unhedged) dollar liabilities and other
one-sided debts-a typical source of instability under fixed but adjustable exchange rate systems.
State and Federal Banks
43. A thorough restructuring of the state-owned bank sector has taken place over the last
5 years in Brazil. As price stability exposed the weaknesses-poor asset quality, high operating
costs, few and low quality financial services-and grim outlook of these banks, the federal
government took decisive action. It established the PROES program in 1996, which provided
federal funds (in the formn of low-cost 30 year loans) to states whose banks were either
restructured, privatized, converted into a development agency, or liquidated. The program has
23 Prior to the January 1999 devaluation, banks were able not only to hedge but also to take long dollar positions, made possible
by the Central Bank's loss of international reserves and massive issuance of dollar-linked securities.
15



been applied to 44 out of the 47 state-owned banks that existed at the inception of PROES. Of
these 44, 10 have been liquidated, 7 (including Banespa) privatized, 5 restructured, and 16
converted into development agencies, and the remaining 6 are being prepared for privatization
44.  By contrast, the much more gargantuan task of restructuring the federal banks is
only at an early stage. This group includes Banco do Brasil (BB), Caixa Economica Federal
(Caixa) , BNDES, Banco do Nordeste and Banco da Amazonia. BB and Caixa are the largest
two financial institutions in Brazil, and in Latin America, with combined assets of about US$150
billion and mandates for first-tier financing of agriculture and housing, respectively. BNDE'S is
the country's (second-tier) development bank charged with providing long term funds (at
somewhat subsidized rates) for productive purposes and with assisting the privatization of public
enterprises. Banco do Nordeste and Banco da Amazonia are regional development banks.
45.  Problems of the large federal banks are deep seated and stem from the roles accorded
to them in the planned development era of the sixties. Given the expectation, at the time, that
the public sector would be the engine of growth, public banks held the promise of attract ng
substantial funds and providing long term loans, while private banks were poorly capitalizzd,
attracted limited funds, and only loaned short term. Over time the financial performance of
federal banks became considerably poorer than that of private sector peers-in terms of risk
management, asset quality, and efficiency. Cumulative recapitalizations with taxpayers moniey
during the last five years for the two giant federal banks are estimated at US$5 billion.
46.  Despite the highly sensitive nature of the issues, the government has been takilng
significant and unprecedented steps regarding federal banks, particularly in terms of
diagnosis, public disclosure, and supervision. The Central Bank extended the Global
Consolidated Inspection prograrn to BB and Caixa and completed a full-fledged cycle of
rigorous on-site examinations. Results indicate better-than-expected operating performnance and
outlook for Banco do Brasil. Restructuring, and possibly recapitalization, appears to be requi red
for Caixa, but the orders of magnitude of the expected recapitalizations are estimated to lie vTell
within the bounds of the fiscal adjustment program, past and future. Corrective measures are
now under discussion, to be followed by Central Bank oversight-in the same manner as is the
practice with private banks. In addition, in 1999 the Central Bank commissioned an international
consulting firm to produce a major study on the financial situation of the entire federal banking
group. The results of the study-which offers a view of a re-dimensioned federal banking
sector-have been broadly disseminated to the public through the Central Bank's web page, and
public commentary is being evaluated. Authorities intend to redraw the strategic model for
federal banks and achieve three objectives: (1) increase the efficiency and efficacy of the public
policies being implemented through these banks; (ii) increase transparency about their fi. cal
costs; and (iii) maintain the fiscal impact within the bounds of overall fiscal targets. The
Government remains convinced of the need to make further progress in defining a clear medium
and long-term strategy for each of the federal banks.
16



C.   Banking Soundness and Safety Net
Bank Supervision and Regulation
47. The Central Bank has made significant strides towards strengthening bank
supervision. Progress was relatively slow through 1997 but accelerated significantly thereafter,
such that Brazil is now considered to be near full compliance with the Basle Core Principles for
Effective Banking Supervision.24  Perhaps most visible in this reform  process has been the
qualitative jump in the on-site supervision function, associated with the introduction of the
Global Consolidated Inspection (GCI) program. It consists of an integrated, on-site supervision
process for financial conglomerates, carried out on a consolidated basis. On-site visits also apply
to foreign branches or subsidiaries of Brazilian banks abroad.25 About a year ago the GCI was
extended to cover also the federal banks-an unprecedented step forward.
48.  There has been a substantial upgrading of prudential regulations. Capital has to be at
least equal to 11 percent of risk weighted assets, and additional capital is required for credit risk
in swap operations and to cushion banks against unhedged foreign exchange and interest rate
risks.2 Capital rules were also modified to set limits on deferred tax assets that can count as
capital as well as to require essentially one-for-one capital for bank equity investments in the
non-financial sector. Loan classification and provisioning rules were set on a sound footing in
1999, among other things, to emphasize ability to pay in classifying a loan in one of 9 categories,
and to tighten provisioning requirements. The 1997 World Bank technical assistance loan to the
Central Bank has been helpful in boosting the sense of reform urgency and its implementation.
49. Reform momentum in this area continues. The authorities are currently engaged in
various stages of implementation of a number of important reforms. A comprehensive process
of institutional strengthening is underway which aims at streamlining processes, enhancing
effectiveness, and upgrading skills. Particular emphasis is being given to remedying important
shortcomings in off-site analysis, with a view to strengthen capacity to detect weaknesses at an
early stage, make projections of banks' financial positions and conduct stress tests and scenario
analyses. As regards on-site supervision, key projects include the mainstreaming, in the near
future, of new examination manuals (they will be disseminated via the Central Bank web site, to
enhance transparency and accountability) and the introduction, in the more distant future, of a
CAMELS-type rating system to be integrated into the on-site and off-site supervisory processes.
Furthermore, the reform program for the Central de Risco (see above) contemplates that, once
the enhanced information is up and running late this year, the Central Bank would develop and
then manage a model to assess systemic credit risk, which would significantly enrich the
supervisory process. Clearly, the initiatives described above as well as those discussed in the
following paragraphs are reducing the probability of financial crises, which have had an adverse
24 A joint IMF-World Bank team of bank supervision experts completed the assessment of the Basle Core Principles in early
2000.
25 As of June 2000, 27 Brazilian banks had operations abroad, the assets of which amounted to US$39 billion (about 8 percent of
the banking system's total assets).
26 The capital regulation for interest rate risk will enter into effect in June 2001.
17



impact on the poor not only through reduced incomes but also by crowding out soc,ial
expenditures due to the fiscal costs of financial crises.
Bank Failure Resolution, Deposit Insurance, and Contingency Planning27
50. The current bank failure resolution and deposit insurance framework-established in
the mid-1990s-has so far served Brazil adequately well. Key components of this frameAork
are Law 9447 and the Fundo Garantidor de Creditos (FGC). These two initiatives, combi ied
transitorily with PROER,28 enabled the authorities to manage skillfully the wave of bank failures
that unfolded in 1995-96, including the orderly resolution of 3 of the 10 largest banks in Braz 1-
Econ6mico, Bamerindus, and Nacional-and subsequent idiosyncratic bank closures.
51.  Law 9447 gives the Central Bank strong powers and significant flexibility to deal with
undercapitalized and insolvent banks. That is, powers to require prompt capital injections by
shareholders or a solution via the merger with, or acquisition by, other banks in the system; and
if that fails, powers to close the troubled bank and inimediately resolve it by splitting it in .o a
"good" bank (containing good assets and the liabilities with the public) to be sold/transferred to
other banks, and a residual "bad" bank to move onto extra-judicial liquidation. The authorities
have taken advantage of these powers in promoting market-based acquisitions to deal with a
number of medium-sized cases of undercapitalized banks.
52. The FGC exhibits many features which could be considered "better international
practices," but it needs to expand its access to a higher level of liquid resources. It prov des
limited deposit insurance (R$20,000 per depositor per bank) in the event of a bank closure. [t is
funded from premiums assessed on its members. Membership is compulsory for all banks. [t is
directed by a Board composed of representatives elected by its members-although in practice
there is a shadow on public sector presence: public policy guidance is provided by the National
Monetary Council29 and FGC received indirectly a loan from the Central Bank for the
Bamerindus failure which is being repaid from its premium-based resources. Per Article 19, (vi)
of the Constitution, no federal budgetary resources can be used to pay off depositors. Moreover,
FGC has successfully generated confidence in its capacity quickly to reimburse insured
depositors of failed banks, thereby enhancing the authorities' willingness not to delay the clo ,ure
of nonviable banks.30  However, additional policy reviews are required. A central issue is that
FGC needs to increase contingent access to liquid private sector resources to confront failure s in
the segment of larger banks (see Annex 5).
27 For a broader discussion of the features and technical and policy issues related to the Brazilian deposit insurance, and its
connection to bank failure resolution, see Annex 5 to this report.
28 PROER was a program that provided public funds to help in the restructuring or resolution of public banks, particularly in the
context of the application of Law 9447.
29 Monetary Council approval is required for any amendment of FGC statutes.
30 Since its creation, FGC has had to reimburse insured deposits of 20 failed banks for a total of R$3.6 billion, including R$" .1
billion for the Bamerindus failure. Of the current R$900 million of annual FGC premium-based income, about 60 percent is
devoted to service the FGC debt originated in connection to the Bamerindus resolution, whose maturity extend through end-2004.
Liquid resources of the FGC at end-2000 amounted to R$1.3 billion (0.5 percent of total deposits in the system).
18



53. An important drawback of the Brazilian bank failure resolution framework relates to
the process of extra-judicial liquidation, which is governed by Law 6024 of 1974. The initial
objective of this law-to increase the efficiency of liquidation by taking it out of the judicial
system and entrusting it to the Central Bank-has not been met.  Experience has been
disappointing. Extra-judicial liquidations of failed banks have proven to be cumbersome,
saddled with heavy bureaucratic procedures and, thus, excruciatingly protracted. As a result,
unnecessary and significant asset value destruction has become the norm, with the Central Bank
burdened by a process that is incompatible with its primary function, and tainting its prestige.
54. Strongly motivated by the disappointing experience with extra-judicial liquidation,
the Central Bank has initiated an intensive work program to amend the relevant legislation
for bank failure resolution, as well as to enhance the role of the FGC. The program has
already been approved by the Central Bank Board. It is directed by member of the Board and
managed by a specially-appointed senior Central Bank executive. The program requires not only
the careful analysis of complex legislation but also intense inter-institutional consultations. It
involves several technical and policy studies. The process of internal debate will be followed by
public commentary of initial proposals, and would end with the submission to Congress of draft
legal amendments and suitable reforms to FGC statutes towards the end of 2001.
55. This review process would assess central issues. These include: (i) the reduction of the
Central Bank role in the extra-judicial liquidation process and the increase of the role of the
private sector; (ii) the balance of rules and discretion in the corrective phases of dealing with
troubled banks; (iii) the introduction of more efficient resolution techniques for closed banks-
such as "purchase and assumption" operations; (iv) an enhanced role of FGC in a reformed
liquidation process; (v) the strengthening of FGC financial position, particularly via access to
contingent lines; and (vi) possible changes to the design of the deposit insurance (e.g., the
introduction of risk-based premiums and other complementary monitoring powers).3'
56. The Central Bank has initiated work to develop a blue print contingency plan-to
ensure adequate preparedness to deal with early stages of a financial crisis, should one
unexpectedly arise. In developing a contingency blueprint, the work program would find
solutions to ensure: (i) minimization and adequate management of risks of contagion and
systemic illiquidity; (ii) inter-institutional coordination and effective decision making processes;
(iii) adequacy of existing legal powers and protection for supervisory actions; and (iv) suitable
ex-ante special legal powers. Once a blue print is in place, dry runs would be practiced from
time to time to test the system and correct any shortfalls.
31 Annex 5 to this report contains a more detailed discussion of these and other issues.
19



D.   Securities Markets32
Salient Features
57.  The role of securities markets in mobilizing non-bank finance for private businesses
is very limited. This is due to at least three reasons. First, the public sector is the rmain
borrower--more than nearly 80 percent of domestic debt securities is accounted fol by
government bonds. Second, a significant part of these securities (particularly debt securitie ,) in
fact mobilizes bank finance (they are held by banks, that is, funded by bank deposits and nct by
capital markets investors). And third, liquidity in equity markets-although higher than in niany
Latin countries-is inadequate in general and notoriously low for voting shares,33 discouraging
investors and equity issuers on account of price volatility. Brazilian enterprises, to the extent
that they use outside finance, resort to bank loans and supplier credits.34 Moreover, an increasing
number of shares of the larger and more prestigious companies are moving to international
capital markets-a globalization trend not unique to Brazil.35
58.  However, the potential for the development of securities markets in Brazil appears
substantial, particularly considering the huge size and rapid pace of growth of institutional
investor funds. At present, the lion share of these institutional investor resources are held by
pension and mutual funds. Total assets of institutional investors are estimated at about USC 120
billion or 22 percent of GDP-the highest among Latin countries excepting Chile. Fast gr Dwth
can be expected and would be accelerated with further pension reforms. However, well ovei half
of these funds are invested in public sector debt paper. Pension funds allocate a larger share-
about 30 percent-of their portfolios to equities compared to mutual funds. (Current invest.nent
guidelines set a ceiling of 50 percent of pension funds portfolio for equity investments.) With
durable fiscal discipline, these funds would be forced to seek yields in alternate securities is sued
by the private sector.
Key Obstacles to Capital Market Development and Reform Agenda
59.  A number of obstacles hinder the development of securities markets. The overarn hing
constraint-the  sizeable  government refinancing  needs-has  already  been  discussed.   In
addition, there are major deficiencies in corporate governance, with minority sharehcIders
unduly exposed to risks of expropriation by controlling shareholders, not least because of poor
proportional representation on boards, the non-adherence to the one-share-one-vote prin.,iple,
32 For a broader description of the features and discussion of the policy issues and reforms related to the Brazilian capital
markets, see Annex 6 to this report.
3 3The supply of voting shares is extremely low as and most voting shares are not traded. Practically the entire "public fob -t (the
set of shares traded) consists of non-voting shares.
3 The typical composition of financing of a Brazilian listed company is as follows: 72 percent internal financing; 14 perc. nt
bank finance; 1I  percent trade finance and supplier credits; and only 3-4 percent capital markets finance (Table 3, Annex t).
3 So far, only a half dozen Brazilian firms have used ADRs to raisefresh capital overseas. However, the out migration of the
trading of existing shares is on a more visible trend. This takes the form of either complete de-listing from BOVESPA or ihe
shifting of existing shares abroad via an ADR program. One of every eight Brazilian companies listed in BOVESPA has r ow an
ADR program in the New York stock exchange (Annex 6).
20



and the lack of "tag along" rights.36 Governance is also weakened because there are few voting
shares and even fewer are traded. Practically the entire "public float" (the set of shares traded)
consists of non-voting shares. Transactions costs in securities trading are high relative to
developed markets (Table 9 of Annex 6). Regulatory responsibilities are scattered across a
number of agencies, creating some overlaps in function and differences in the quality of
supervision. Human resources of CVM are stretched and its enforcement powers weak,
seriously undermining its capacity to investigate and punish violations.
60. The authorities are pursuing reforms to introduce best international practices in the
legal and regulatory framework for, and operation of, securities markets. The agenda
includes amendments to the Corporate Law and the Securities Markets Regulation Law which
has received partial approval in Congress (Draft Law 3115). Changes already accepted by the
House aim mainly at strengthening minority shareholder rights; fostering the issuance of voting
shares; enhancing CVM enforcement capacity; and raising accounting standards (by creating an
independent professional body to set accounting standards). Corporate governance objectives
are also being pursued through recently issued CVM regulations to protect the financial interests
of minority shareholders when listed companies withdraw from the stock market and go private,
and when large acquisitions by controlling shareholders take place.  In addition, good
governailce criteria were issued by the stock exchange (BOVESPA) and new pension fund
investment guidelines have been approved by the CMN, to encourage investment in shares of
companies with good governance. A host of other, recently passed CVM regulations focus on
enhancing investor protection-mainly through improved transparency and disclosure
requirements-and easing foreign investor access to Brazilian securities markets.
E.  Payments System
61. To eliminate the Central Bank exposure to losses, the Central Bank has devoted
considerable resources to redesign the country's payment infrastructure.  Partly to cope
with past high inflation, Brazil's payment system achieved a high level of technological
sophistication and efficiency. However, the Central Bank shouldered virtually all the risks of
payment failure by providing overdrafts to ensure finality in settlement. These risks became
actual losses when failing banks abused these facilities. As the economy has stabilized, the
attention has shifted from speed of payments to problems of risk management. A further
weakness has been the lack of a sound and reliable legal framework for payments. Finally, the
current system has also suffered from risks due to limited integration between payments and
securities settlement procedures.
62. Backed by a new law, a major overhaul is underway. A series of actions aim at
eliminating the risks incurred by the Central Bank, and at transferring residual risks to relevant
private participants in the payments system under new rules and oversight. In line with this
structural shift, the role of the Central Bank is being altered, to strengthen and provide a legal
underpinning to its oversight of the payments system, and risk management principles for private
participants are being clearly enunciated in regulations comprising a part of the new legal
framework. In parallel, risk reduction and efficiency increase will be achieved in government
36 That is, the right of minority shareholders to "tag along" and obtain the same price as the controller shareholder in the event of
a change in corporate control.
21



and private securities clearance and settlement. The Central Bank has consistently involvec key
stakeholders in the reform process, which has enabled widespread understanding and suppoil for
the new systems. When the reform is completed, Brazil will have a safer and sounder payments
system allowing international financial integration as well as protecting the Central Bank from
risk of loss while drastically reducing moral hazard. For a more detailed explanation of pay nent
system reforms, please refer to Annex 7.
V. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A.  Program Objectives of the Proposed Loan
63.  Programmatic adjustment lending for the financial sector is included in the CAS, appioved
in March 2000, and its poverty reduction objective is an essential part of Bank assistance for
renewed broad-based economic growth and thus poverty reduction. The proposed Siagle-
Tranche US$404.04 million Loan follows the recently approved Programmatic f iscal
Reform Loan. Specifically, the CAS had also highlighted the low level and high cost of
financial intermediation in Brazil as a key obstacle to higher growth and thus faster poverty
reduction. A quality dialogue is continuing and the reform-will remains strong. In summary,
authorities have progressed in further advancing the modernization of fundamental legislation, in
increasing the efficiency of financial intermediation and broadening access to financial serZices,
in strengthening banking soundness and the safety net, in reforming public banks (especially and
primarily those banks belonging to individual states), in progressing with payments and
clearance systems reforms, and in reducing barriers to improved securities' markets. }'or a
comprehensive view of the Government's overall reform program, please refer to Anr ex 3.
The government's reform program is further elaborated in its own Letter of Development I olicy
(Annex 1). By Latin American standards, the Brazilian financial sector reforms are consi lered
comprehensive and ambitious. Boldness has been demonstrated by the authorities in their bank
failure resolution, specifically by resolving major private bank failures, and without touchirig off
a banking crisis, and by restructuring/privatizing some forty public banks previously own -d by
Brazil's individual states. Foreign banks' presence has been encouraged and has tripled in the
last few years. The current economic team, particularly in the Central Bank, is competert and
fully committed to a continued reform process.
64.  On the basis of its importance for growth and poverty reduction, and given the evidenlce of
reform progress, the Government and the Bank have confirmed the financial sector as a
priority area for assistance through programmatic adjustment lending. Programmatic
lending is proposed for a total amount of up to US$1.2 billion. Programmatic lending is
expected to include up to two additional phases.  Addressed and supported would be a
substantive set of coherent policy areas which already enjoy broad political support and which
are considered within the implementation capability of the executive branch.
65.  Therefore, programmatic lending would initially support a set of policy areas of
intermediation efficiency and access to financial services, banking system soundness and ,afety
net, payments and securities clearance and settlement systems, and securities markets. The
programmatic approach is particularly suitable, as core actions are subject to politically difficult
legislative changes, which are difficult to predict. For further details on all actions, monitoring
22



indicators, and program goals, please refer to Annex 2. This First programmatic loan is in
direct support of actions already completed, many of which have been undertaken with
Bank support. The Government's overall reform program (see Annex 3) includes areas that are
not directly supported by the Loan, such as constitutional amendments to regulate the financial
sector, and fundamental reform of the federal banks. The Bank will broadly monitor the
progress in the implementation of the Government's overall financial sector reform program that
is set out in Annex 3 and the Letter of Development Policy, including progress in defining a
strategy for the federally-owned Banks with the objective to increase efficiency and efficacy of
public policies, increase transparency and safeguard fiscal goals. Continuing progress in the
implementation of the Government's overall reform program, including federal bank reform,
would be an important consideration in moving to the next PSECAL in the series.
66. The proposed operation has its underpinnings in detailed analytical work, technical
assistance lending and dialogue. While the Bank eventually decided not to proceed with a
1998 Special Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, the Loan's central thematic core, the Banking
Safety Net, has remained a subject of continued interchange of views and has become part of this
Loan. Dialogue in the past year has expanded and deepened to encompass a number of jointly
selected new areas, through a series of FY00 targeted policy notes, on the overall efficiency of
financial intermediation ("Impediments to the Development and Efficiency of Financial
Intermediation in Brazil"), regulatory issues ("Optimal Regulatory and Supervisory Structures:
Economic Issues"), bank safety net issues ("Brazil - Safety Net"), rural and housing finance, debt
management and debt markets, as well as more comprehensive ESW on capital markets
("Corporate Governance Reform Issues in the Brazilian Equities Markets37"). Additionally, as
part of a multi-country Western Hemisphere project, a detailed study has been completed on
payments systems and securities clearance and settlement. The nexus of issues concerning
poverty and the financial sector are also being explicitly targeted through work focused on small
and medium enterprises and rural and micro finance, which are being explicitly addressed
through ESW and a micro-finance Bank loan. The dialogue also includes municipal finance, as
well as pension reform, also supported by both lending and ESW. Government support is strong
and coordination with the IMF and IFC has been long-standing. Bank discussions with the
government are at the senior most level and the quality of dialogue is unusually high. Finally, a
back-bone in the long-standing dialogue has been the Bank's technical assistance lending to the
Central Bank, which had a major emphasis on banking regulation and supervision (Loan BR
4245 of 1997).
B.  Reform Program supported by the Bank
67. The Programmatic Reform Program, and covering both completed actions and
expected future actions for the subsequent Second and Third programmatic phases is
shown in Annex 2. What follows is a fuller discussion of each major policy area.
37 The major papers were recently reviewed and favorably commented on by the Quality Assurance Group.
23



Intermediation Efficiency and Access to Financial Services
68. With respect to the very high financial intermediation spreads, the First programn-atic
loan would be supporting actions already taken, which include increased disclosure of debtor
information by the Central Bank Risk Center, and improved credit enforcement through creation
of a new lending contract (Cedula de Credito Bancario). Also new legislation has been subm tted
to Congress to overhaul bankruptcy laws. The core indicative action for a Second phase would
include wide availability of enhanced debtor information and confirmation by law of the new
"Cedula" instrument. The core indicative action for a Third phase would be publication Df a
new bankruptcy law.
69.  With respect to broadening access to financial services, the First programmatic oan
would be supporting innovative steps taken such as authorizing banks to use locations other :han
branches to reach under-served populations and reduce restrictive membership rules for
cooperatives to widen inclusion and thus financial services. The Second and Third phases of
programmatic lending would include the formulation of a strategy (e.g. via greater particip,:tion
of private bank and non-bank financial institutions) and action plans to further expand financial
services, including the use of movable collateral to mobilize credit.
70.  In order to monitor broader poverty impact, progress in extending financial services wi 1 be
reviewed by the Central Bank through the following indicators (see also para. 84 and Table 1:
- population served by region and by type of service (banking; non-banking);
- number of service points (full branches, other non-branch service points) by region;
- number of municipalities without financial services;
- credit extended to small enterprises by volume and as percentage of GDP; and
- trends in lending interest rates and spreads.
71.  The outcome of the measures would be an increase in efficiency and depth of financial
intermediation and poverty reduction through broad-based growth and increased access (]:hr a
more complete set of indicators also para. 88 and Table 1).
Bank System Soundness and Safety Net
72. This policy area is defined in terms of banking regulation and supervision, bank failure
resolution and deposit insurance, and banking crisis contingency planning.
73. The First programmatic loan would be supporting bank regulation/supervision refo:rms
including the introduction of consolidated supervision of financial conglomerates, strengthe ling
of capital adequacy standards, creation of a sound system of asset classification that supports
more rigorous provisioning rules, major organizational streamlining within the supervision
department of the Central Bank, progress in completing new examination manuals and disclosure
via the internet and initiation of contracting a new bank rating system. A complex rev4ew
program of the bank exit framework and the role of the deposit insurance would also be
supported. On bank crisis contingency planning, a work program would be initiated to dev--lop
an appropriate blue print with the support of suitable international experts. Core actions ior a
Second phase would include introduction of examination manual and bank rating system,
24



presentation to Congress of legal instruments to better protect bank supervisors and to revise the
bank exit framework. Additionally, a contingency plan would be approved. Core actions for a
Third phase would include publication of new laws for the bank exit framework and new
deposit insurance statutes, and for protection of bank supervisors.
74.  The outcome of the measures would be soundness in the operation of both private and
public banks and improved bank exit processes. Poverty impact would be through crisis
prevention.
Payments and Securities Clearance and Settlement Systems
75. In the area of payments systems, Brazil has launched a landmark reform program, which
aims at first, reducing systemic risk and Central Bank exposure to loss in the settlement of
payments, and second, ensuring the prudent management of residual risks by private participants
in the clearing process, including securities clearance and settlement. The reforms will also
increase overall efficiency in the clearing and settlement process.
76. The First programmatic loan supports the landmark reform launched, the passage of the
enabling legislation and the authorities' execution skills in maintaining a demanding timetable.
The core actions for the Second phase will target the frll implementation and functioning of the
new payment system and the issue of the guidelines for the private clearing houses.
77. The outcome of these measures would be reduced systemic risk and Central Bank exposure
to losses.
Securities Markets
78.  In the area of securities markets, there are a series of major ongoing initiatives to
strengthen the framework for corporate governance, improve transparency and disclosure
rationalize the regulatory structure, enhance the executive capacity of regulators, strengthen
surveillance and improve current practices in auditing and accounting. Details are described in
Annex 6. A number of these measures are currently jointly presented in a single draft bill
already submitted to Congress, which proposes revisions in the present Corporate Law, and in
the law that governs the Securities Commission; the CVM law.
79. The First loan would be in support of the progress in corporate governance and in the
regulatory framework and enforcement. At the center of corporate governance, is the submission
to Congress of the Corporate Law, and the issuance of good governance guidelines by the stock
exchange, BNDESpar and pension fund regulator. The progress in the regulatory framework is
recognized by submission to Congress of legal amendments to strengthen CVM's enforcement
powers, and the independent setting of accounting standards. Also, there is agreement on the
principles of the Central Bank/Financial System law i.e. operational monetary policy
independence for the Central Bank and streamlining of institutions and accountability of all
capital market regulatory agencies. Finally, there has been much progress in issuing new CVM
regulations to enhance disclosure and investor protection. The Second programmatic phase
would support core actions such as the approval of the revised Corporate and CVM laws and the
issue of additional regulations to perfect and consolidate minority shareholder protection.
25



Finally, major progress would be achieved by submission to Congress of the new CGntral
Bank/Financial Systems law to develop an effective securities' market regulatory structure. Core
actions for a Third phase would include publication of the Central Bank/Financial Systenm law
and agreement on guiding principles for the establishment of a new professional body fc r the
setting of accounting standards, a basic blue print for the consolidation of mutual func and
pension regulation.
80.  The outcome of these measures would be higher investor demand for Brazilian securities
and a more effective regulatory structure. Poverty impact would be through broad-based gr wth.
C.  Description of Financial Assistance
81. The Bank's financial assistance under this programmatic lending woulcil be
comprised of this First Single-Tranche Loan, and two additional programmatic loans
subject to satisfactory progress in reform implementation. The First Loan, in a prof-osed
amount of US$404.04 million would disburse soon after effectiveness, as supported p3licy
actions are expected to be met prior to Board presentation. The next programmatic loan l.,ould
disburse towards the first half of 2002. If there is a third loan, it could disburse in the second
half of 2002, or beyond.
82.  The Bank's financial assistance will help finance Brazil's external finan cing
requirements and its public sector borrowing requirements. External financing requirements
in 2001 include a current account deficit projected at $27 billion and medium- and long-term
debt amortizations of $29 billion. Foreign direct investment, while difficult to predict with
precision, is expected in the order of $23 billion. About $5 billion are expected from multilEteral
institutions. In addition to financing part of the external financing requirements, the loan will
help meet the federal government's financing requirements of about $15 billion in 2001 and will
help lengthen the term structure of public sector debt and thus reduce vulnerability. Ir. the
context of current international economic uncertainties and the perception of emerging ma rket
country risk, it is relevant to note that access the alternative external debt financing for Brazil
remains unreliable and unstable. Also, the cost of alternative internal and external debt finar cing
has increased with recent market vulnerability. As a result of market uncertainties relate d to
market developments, including emerging markets, sovereign bond spreads have increased
almost 300 basis points as compared to lows in early 2001.
83. This First programmatic loan is proposed to be complemented by a new companion
technical assistance loan, in the amount of US$14.5 million with components to address
reform needs of both the Central Bank and the Securities Commission (CVM). Techlilcal
assistance expenditures of both the existing Central Bank TA loan and the new companior' TA
loan have also been designed to pave the way for policy reforms targeted for subsecuent
programmatic loans. Technical assistance will be provided to further training, to upgrade
information technology, to allow for specialized consulting advice, and to allow for diagnostic
studies and legal drafting. At the Central Bank, in addition to information technology, spe,ific
assistance will be given to areas such as the successful functioning of the new payments system,
through diagnostic work on risk management, and to the deepening of Brazil's debt markets,
through an evaluation of technological options for government securities markets. Within the
CVM, technical assistance would be focused on enabling the staff to update their skills to meet
26



market requirements, for example in areas such as corporate valuation and accounting,-
strengthening investor protection, increasing disclosure and transparency.  In addition,
information technology needs for databases, and for market surveillance would also be
addressed. Certain areas of specialized consulting advice, focussed on regulatory issues jointly
shared by the Central Bank and the CVM, could be shared by both institutions.
Program Implementation and Supervision
84. Regular Bank missions will review progress of the implementation of the proposed
reforms and their outcomes. The review will largely be based on the progress in implementing
TA loan components in support of reform actions , monitoring indicators and the goals of the
reforms outlined in Annex 2, and on the reform direction and benchmarks contained in the
Letter of Development Policy.
Disbursement, Auditing and Fiduciary Environment
85. The Loan would disburse under the Bank's provisions for fast disbursing operations, which
require no procurement of goods and services. The flow of proceeds would follow procedures
established under the prior programmatic Fiscal Reform structural adjustment loan. The Bank
may require audits of the account into which the proceeds of the loan will be disbursed.
86. As discussed in more detail in the 2001 CAS Progress Report, Brazil has a supportive
fiduciary environment for the proposed operation. Furthermore, the Government is engaged
in a process of strengthening its expenditure review, financial management, and auditing
functions. The Bank has been supporting several related initiatives.
* The Federal Government has over the last years consolidated effective and transparent
expenditure planning, budgeting, and financial management systems. These systems
include multi annual planning (Plano Plurianual - PPA), strategic budget planning, the
annual law of budget guidelines, and the budget law itself. The monitoring and evaluation
system of the PPA constitutes a framework for gradually institutionalizing public
expenditure reviews that are built into the regular planning and budgeting cycle.
 The Brazilian Government and the Bank are concluding a review of the systems and
procedures used by the Government of Brazil at the national level to budget, expend,
account for, report on, and audit the use of funds approved in their annual budget. This
review concludes that, overall, at the national level, Brazil has in place appropriate
financial management systems.
. In specific areas, the Bank also supports borrowers in their procurement systems.
Regarding Bank-financed projects in general, the Brasilia-based implementation team
continues to support and underpin high standards with respect to financial management,
procurement, and accountability.
27



D.   Environment
87.    There is no environmental impact. A "C" rating has been issued.
E.   Benefits
88.  In broad terms, the Reform program will contribute to growth, poverty reduction and
increased crisis preparedness. In terms of the supported subset of reforms, efficiency of
intermediation will contribute to the depth of financial intermediation provided by the pr vate
sector and broaden access to financial services for the underbanked population. Banking sy item
soundness measures will contribute to sounder operations of both public and private banks,
improve the efficiency of bank exit processes, and strengthen the capacity to prevent a crisis and
to respond without improvisation once it effectively occurs. The initiatives under paymentE and
securities clearance and settlement will reduce systemic risk and Central Bank exposure to risk
of loss in the settlement of payments and bring about efficiency gains in the payment systern. In
securities markets, it is expected that investors' demand for securities will be increased, that
gradually medium  tern  finance will reach medium  sized enterprises and that more effe.tive
capital market regulatory structures will become a reality. The companion technical assistance
loan will be contributing to the knowledge underpinnings required for these benefits to be
realized. Objectives, outcome indicators and poverty impact are summarized in the Table below:
Table 1: Outcome Indicators and Poverty Impact
Objectives                   Outcome Indicators              Poverty Impact and Indicators
Efficiency in          .  Significant interest rate and spread reduction   .  Broad-based growth (incor ie
intermediation and     .  Significant increase in Credit as % of GDP  growth of total population,
broadening of access   a Population served by region and by type of  bottom 20%, and bottom 41%)
service (banking; non-banking);         . Access to SMEs and poor to
a Number of service points (full branches,    financial services (Share ar.d
other non-branch service points) by region;  total volume of credit to
. Number of municipalities without financial  SMEs, share of SMEs with
services; and                              access to credit, share of total
. Credit extended to small enterprises by     population, bottom 40% with
volume and as percentage of GDP            access to basic financial
services)
Banking system         . Absence of banking crises                 Financial crisis prevention
soundness and safety net  a Effective bank failure resolutions
.  Effective Bank      . Deposit insurance meeting financial
regulation and         obligations promptly
supervision         . Effective response to emerging crisis
. Bank resolution and
deposit insurance
. Contingency planning
Payments system        Central Bank losses stopped
Securities market                                                 Broad-based growth (indicato-s
.  Corporate governance  .  Increased portfolio investments in Brazilian   see above)
. Regulatory              securities
framework and       a Regulation/supervision effective
enforcement
28



F.  Risks and Risk Mitigation
89.  The risks that the benefits of the program supported by the proposed operation might not
materialize can be discussed in terms of its different components. Risks could include: (i)
macroeconomic shocks with an adverse bearing on domestic interest rates, growth, and fiscal
performance (these risks are discussed in more detail in the 2001 CAS Progress Report); (ii)
weakening consensus underlying financial sector reforms; and (iii) institutional weaknesses.
Macroeconomic Risks
90. Today, Brazil is better equipped to withstand external shocks when compared with
the pre-1998 period. This new robustness is owed to several factors, among them the strong
and institutionalized fiscal reforms themselves, the increased credibility that has been built with
respect to inflation and macroeconomic management, and improvements in the composition of
Brazil's public debt through an active debt management effort. Over the last years, the
Government has shown great capacity to manage risks, pursue structural reforms and stay the
course oIn fiscal adjustment.
91. Certain imbalances resolve only gradually over time, however, and thus constitute
ongoing risks. Large external financing requirements suggest continued careful monitoring of
external vulnerabilities. Brazil remains very vulnerable to interest-rate and capital-flow shocks.
Since debt stocks evolve only slowly, these vulnerabilities will decline only gradually despite
successful fiscal adjustment in recent years. The current account deficit per-se is of less concern
in the new floating exchange rate regime, in particular as growing FDI has in recent years
covered Brazil's current account deficit. Market expectation is now of modestly declining FDI
that would continue to cover the bulk of the current account deficit. A concern in the context of
Brazil's floating exchange rate regime is that significant depreciation feeds through into inflation
(albeit with a low elasticity, estimated as 15 percent), and thus requires monetary and/or fiscal
tightening to adhere to the inflation targets.
92.  Even though the Government has achieved major progress by stabilizing the level of
Brazil's public sector debt, the composition and size of Brazil's public debt implies a high
fiscal sensitivity to the interest rate at which it refinances. The Bank estimates that an
exogenous one-percent increase in the interest rate at which Brazil refinances debt throughout
the year directly adds 0.3 percent to the debt/GDP ratio. To offset this, the Government would
have to increase the primary surplus by a similar magnitude. Based on recent experience, such
shocks, while disruptive, would be likely to trigger the necessary offsetting fiscal measures from
the Brazilian authorities. Fiscal adjustment would reduce growth temporarily, as the response
worked its way through to avoid an increase in debt, but would subsequently re-establish
confidence and the basis for renewed growth.
93. In the short-term, the slowdown in the US economy and economic uncertainties in
emerging markets have important repercussions for Brazil. On the trade side, demand for
Brazilian exports is expected to decline, and this lowers the growth rate that Brazil can sustain
externally. On the financing side, even though lower US interest rates may help in the short-
term, both a severe downturn in the US and continuing market uncertainty could lead to
increasing emerging market spreads, further raising Brazil's debt refinancing costs in
29



international markets. Based on the recent experience in Brazil, such a shock, while disruptive,
would also be likely to cause Brazilian authorities to undertake fiscal adjustments to off'let or
reduce the fiscal impact of increased interest rates, if these were to materialize. This policy
response would work its way to reduce debt, help enhance confidence and subsequently ower
interest rates again.
94.  Based on the foregoing discussion of economic risks, two scenarios can be distingusished.
In the first, more likely, "soft landing" scenario, international conditions would require a I olicy
response that would include a manageable and temporary increase in domestic Brazilian in .erest
rates. In the second, less likely "hard landing" scenario, a severe recession led by falling asset
prices in the US, and/or emerging market uncertainties, deteriorating conditions fo'. the
refinancing of Brazil's external debt would require a further bout of fiscal adjustment, tight,ning
of monetary policies, and supplementary reforms, leading subsequently to restored confidence
and renewed stable growth. Given the appropriate policy response, even the "hard landing"
scenario would likely resolve itself in a healthy set of policies and strong long-term prospects,
but with significant short-run costs. The most likely economic path over the near future would
fall within the spectrum from the "soft landing" to the "hard landing" scenarios with a strong
bias towards the "soft landing" scenario because of the improved macroeconomic fundamtntals
and the demonstrated credibility of the Government to manage external shocks skillfully.
95.  In the case of a hard-landing, a period of higher domestic interest rates would likely
delay the deepening of financial intermediation as a desired key outcome of the proposed
reform. Regardless of the level of interest rates though, the reforms are expected to at least keep
intermediation spreads from rising again and would thus have a beneficial effect comparec. to a
no-reform scenario even in case of a hard landing.
Risk of Weakening Reform Consensus
96.  The comprehensiveness and pace of the reform  program  will be sustained bx the
continued credibility of the policy approach of the current economic team, wot-king
collaboratively across the Central Bank, Ministry of Finance and regulatory agencies, and their
support by the President of the Republic, all within a benign political environment. Credi)ility
and presidential support strengthen the prospects that the reform program can be significantly
advanced before the next election cycle begins in earnest in mid 2002. A key risk is that adverse
economic shocks damage this credibility and that, as a result, the reform program increasi:ngly
face political difficulties. The drive for legislative reform could become less intense which could
cause reforms to be delayed but not abandoned. Federal bank restructuring could be set on a
more tentative course, and a comprehensive restructuring of the regulatory/supervisory
framework could become more uncertain. These risks are mitigated by the Government's I tsted
ability to build and sustain consensus, by the underlying merits of the reforms underway, ar.d by
the strong undercurrent of support by the private financial sector. On the other hand, crisis
conditions have sometimes tended to accelerate the sense of urgency, thus opening po] itical
windows allowing reforms to proceed.
30



Risk of Institutional Weakness
97. Another risk is institutional as several institutions will be contributing to the pace of
reform and not all are at the same level of development. The Central Bank is the strongest
institution and few set backs are expected. However, the regulatory institutions in capital
markets, pension, and insurance are at far lesser stage of institutional development and their
progress in taking up new tasks may be punctuated by set-backs. The Bank's new technical
assistance loan will be designed to provide support to mitigate technical and human resource
constraints.
VI. RECOMMENDATION
98. 1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank, and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By: Sven Sandstrom
Washington, D.C
April 26, 2001
31



32



ANNEX 1:   LETTER OF SECTORAL DEVELOPMENT POLICY
MINISTERIO DA FAZENDA
Brasilia, DF, April 23, 2001
To
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
Washington, DC - USA
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
This letter on sector policy addresses Brazil's progress in consolidating the safety
and efficiency of the Brazilian financial system, including key developments designed to
enhance bank soundness and the safety net, improve the efficiency of financial
intermediation and strengthen capital markets. We request financial assistance from the
IBRD in the form of a programmatic financial sector adjustment loan, in support of the
implementation of the policies above. A strong and well-capitalized financial system is a
basic requirement for monetary stability and for the resilience of Brazil's economy to
external shocks, while improved efficiency and competition on financial markets have
proved important to Brazil's recent economic recovery. We believe the policies outlined
herein constitute key Brazilian government initiatives to be supported by the Bank under a
programmatic adjustment loan.
Macroeconomic Outlook
2.    Brazil has produced excellent economic results in recent years, particularly
considering the lack of optimism in early 1999 because of the newly-floating and recently-
devalued Brazilian currency. Inflation (measured by the Consumer Price Index Extended-
IPCA) was kept under control at levels of 8.94% in 1999 and 5.97% in 2000, well within
government targets. Inflation is expected to follow its path in 2001 to the targeted level of
4% with a two percentage points margin upwards and downwards. Deficits in the current
account balance of payments continue to run at high but decreasing levels. Totals were $ 25
billion in 1999 and $ 24.6 billion in 2000, which represent 4.73% and 4.2% of Brazil's
GDP, respectively. These deficits have been completely covered by direct investments ($
30 billion in 1999 and $ 30.6 billion in 2000). After two years of stunted economic growth
- the GDP grew 0.2% in 1998 and 0,8% in 1999 - Brazil's economy began to grow again.
Data indicate that last year the GDP grew by 4.4%.
3.    An important factor in obtaining such results was the adoption of formal inflation
targets on which the expectations of all players in the economy could focus and converge,
thus increasing confidence in Brazil's economy. Nonetheless, such results were only
possible thanks to vigorous adjustments in the fiscal scenarios (as detailed in my December
33



20, 2000 letter to you ) and major efforts to reorganize and restructure Brazil's financial
system. Since the introduction of the Economic Stabilization Plan (also called the Real
Plan), on July 1, 1994, the national financial system has been subjected to deep-rooted
changes. The process of high and unstable inflation that had dominated the economic
scenario for more than 15 years resulted in a noticeable deterioration in the efficiency of
many sectors of the economy, since much greater gains were readily available to agen s
through the purchase of public sector debt securities.
The Financial Sector Restructuring
4.    It is important to underscore the fact that Brazil's strategy in solving the bank
problems that have occurred as the result of the substantial changes in the macroeconomic
scene since the second half of 1994 is considered, both in Brazil and abroad, as a successfil
story. In recent years, since the full stabilization of the Brazilian banking and financial
systems, the Government has attempted to push forward with reforms, under the
understanding that a stable system is fundamental. Such a system must also be efficient
and functional and serve Brazilian society. Listed below are some of the key efforts made
in the last few years to maintain the stability and increase the efficiency of the financial
system and capital markets in Brazil.
5.    Financial institutions earned part of the seigniorage revenue by funding their
purchase of securities with demand deposits. Their gain (float) was sufficient not only tD
maintain the institution but even to foster further expansion of already highly inefficient
structures. The fragility of the system was perceived only after the economy stabilized and
inflation collapsed. Shortly after the implementation of the Real Plan, several financial
institutions were subjected to special administrative regimes or reorganization prograirs
that involved mergers or shareholder-control transfers.
6.    Between 1995 and 1997, an "emergency safety net" (ESN) was put into place in
order to prevent a banking crisis and to avert the dissemination of systemic risk in Brazi l.
This ESN was created by: (i) introducing special credit lines to foster bank restructuring
(PROER); and (ii) improving bank resolution policies. The overall strategy included: ( )
strengthening prudential regulation and changing the approach of banking supervision; (i )
creating a program to foster the reduction of the States' presence in banking activitices
(PROES); (iii) designing an approach to permit foreign capital to gain access to the
financial system; and, (iv) creating a new privately-managed deposit insurance scheme.
named the "Credit Guarantee Fund" (FGC).
7.    The National Financial System Restructuring and Strengthening Incentive Prograrm
(PROER), implemented in 1995, facilitated the absorption of inefficient institutions by
more efficient and capitalized ones. Under PROER, interveners and liquidators are legally
able to negotiate the transfer or sale of assets of a failed bank to a sound institution, in order
to avoid losses to depositors, preserve jobs and avoid systemic risk. To implement this
"prompt resolution" policy, the Central Bank used two sets of legislation: the first, PROEiR
itself, comprising Medida Provis6ria 1179/95 and Resolution 2208/95; and, the second,
Medida Provis6ria 1182/95 converted into Law 9447/97. The first set of legislation
instituted special lines of credit to finance the buy-outs and also introduced fiscal incentives
34



for the acquiring institutions. The second set extended the powers of the Central Bank and,
inter alia, allowed institutions under extra-judicial liquidation to be split, taking into
account the quality of assets. Law 9447/97 also granted greater discretion to the Central
Bank in taking preventive measures involving capitalization requirements; transfers of
shareholder control; reorganization through splitting, incorporation or mergers;
expropriation of shares, etc. Moreover, this law extended responsibilities to encompass the
primary shareholders and external auditors. Before its enactment only managers could be
held accountable for wrongdoing.
8.   In 1995, the possibility of increasing foreign investment in the Brazilian Financial
System was approved following a case-by-case approach (Exposicao de Motivos 311/95, of
the Ministry of Finance). Initially, this was restricted to foreign participation in the
privatization of state banks. When it became clear that the country would draw significant
benefits from foreign participation in efforts to restructure foundering banks, investment
possibilities were broadened. Aside from these advantages, the presence of foreign
institutions has enhanced competition, while resulting in the inflow of capital and advanced
technologies, particularly in the area of credit operations and portfolio management.
9.    Just as in the case of private banks, State-owned banks were also forced to adjust to
the new reality of a stabilized economy. The problems affecting these institutions were
addressed in 1996 when the Program of Incentives for the Restructuring of the State Public
Financial System (PROES) was created. The purpose of the PROES Program is to reduce
the presence of non-performing public sector banking institutions within the context of
fiscal adjustment at State level. Aside from financing programs involving the privatization,
extinction or transformation of State-government banks into non-deposit taking institutions
(development agencies), PROES authorized the federal government to acquire the credits of
State governments and State companies held by their state banks, thus solving two
problems at once: that of the banks and that of public finance. Federal government
purchases and refinancing of State government debts held by State banks was the
prerequisite to the privatization or liquidation of these institutions or of transformation into
development agencies. Under PROES, the federal government has already reduced the
number of State-government banks from 36, that existed in 1994, to 14, culminating with
the privatization of the three largest regional banks - BANERJ, in 1997, and
BANESTADO and BANESPA, at the end of last year.
10.  In addition to preventing banking crisis and avoiding dissemination of systemic risk,
the Central Bank has continuously improved the policies that form Brazil's "safety net" by
implementing the best current international practices in banking regulation and supervision.
The basic underpinnings of this modernization program were actually put in place in
August 1994, with the adoption of the international recommendations under the Basel
Accord regarding increased capitalization requirements to be imposed on financial
institutions. Efforts to modernize banking supervision were accelerated after the period of
bank stress, by changing the approach taken by bank supervisors from compliance with
existing norms and regulations to an approach based on risk assessments of financial
institutions.
35



11.   Also important are the Central Bank efforts to ensure the adoption of all 25 Basel
Core Principles for Banking Supervision. The adoption of international best practices has
led to the following major achievements: improvements in standards for licensing
requirements;   higher improvements in capital requirements (11%) than those
recommended by the Basel Capital Accord; strict standards of accountability fo
shareholders, managers and auditors; adoption of Basel internal control guidelines;
complete revision of regulations providing for adequate loan classification and provisioning
requirements; the establishment of credit-quality databases; improved professionalism o;^
on-site and off-site examiners, and actual application of comprehensive enforcement tool,
and preventive actions. All these improvements and the continuing modernization process
are the objective of the World Bank loan for the Central Bank Modernization Technica.
Assistance Project (PROAT).
12.   Throughout the last decades, federally owned banks have performed an importan:
public function. They have played a unique role in fulfilling market failures in the areas o:
rural credit, credit to small and micro enterprises, financing water and sewerage sector
investments, providing long term financing for the production of goods with a long
production cycle, as well as financing housing and urban infrastructure more generally
More importantly, they have been a central piece in guaranteeing access to financia.
services for a number of Brazilians, particularly those who live far from the economic
centers, in areas where private banks are not present. The federally-owned banks wen:
through financial and administrative restructuring (Provisional Measure 1.510/96).
including recapitalization in the case of Banco do Brasil. In December 1997 Bancc
Meridional, a private bank in southern Brazil that had been salvaged and then nationalized.
was privatized.
13.   The consolidation of stabilization in Brazil has had a direct impact on the regulatior
and operation of the financial system and this has included the public banks and public
policies regarding their mandates. In this regard, the Government decided to undertake a
comprehensive diagnosis of the public banks to serve as a basis for debate and strategic
long term choices and decisions. The diagnosis prepared by a consortium integrated by a
private consultant firm and the Fundacao Instituto de Pesquisas EconBmicas of the
University of Sao Paulo is now under public hearing. The federal government believes thal
the strategic model to be eventually chosen has to meet three main objectives: increase the
efficiency and efficacy of the public policies implemented through the federally-owned
banks, increase transparency about the public cost of these policies and safeguard the
National Treasury against risks that may not be compatible with the consolidation of a solid
fiscal regime in Brazil. In addition to the diagnosis, the Committee for the Managerial
Coordination of Federally Owned Financial Institutions (COMIF, established in 1994)
requested all federally-owned banks to be submitted to audits and evaluations, which
should include alternatives for restructuring. Finally, the Central Bank has been engaged in
supervising the federally-owned banks following the supervision practices and rules applied
to all other financial institutions. The government remains convinced of the need to make
further progress in defining a clear medium and long term strategy for each of the Banks.
36



Financial Sector Recent Improvements
14.  In recent years, since the stabilization of the Brazilian banking and financial
systems, the Government has attempted to push forward with additional changes, under the
understanding that a stable system is not enough. Such a system must also be efficient and
functional and serve the Brazilian community. Listed below are some of the key efforts
made in recent times to strengthen the banking sector safety net and increase the efficiency
of the monetary and financial system.
15.   Financial liquidity assistance from the Central Bank was replaced in January 2000
by a rediscount mechanism with the actual transfer of securities to the Central Bank, in
order to avoid problems involving collection of assets by the Central Bank in cases of bank
liquidation. The lender-of-last-resort function is currently operating according to the best
international standards. The remaining concerns in this sphere have to do with overdrafts in
bank reserves and the execution of guarantees for outstanding loans in cases of bank
liquidation. These problems should be solved once the new Brazilian Payment System is in
place, next October.
16.   Bank supervision has experienced extraordinary progress in recent years, with a
more intense use of preventive and mandatory measures. Nevertheless, additional steps are
needed before international standards can be reached. In this regard, the Central Bank
efforts to adopt all 25 Core Principles for Effective Bank Supervision as issued by the Basel
Committee are worth mentioning. A recent evaluation regarding the success in adopting
these principles was made in January 2000 by a joint World Bank and IMF mission. This
group confirmed the progress achieved by the supervision authorities. The least efficient
part of the program according to this evaluation was the off-site monitoring. The Central
Bank has taken specific steps to correct this situation, for example, by splitting the former
Supervision Department into the Off-site Supervision Department (DESIN) and the On-site
Supervision Department (DESUP), located at Sao Paulo, where most of the Brazilian banks
are headquartered. Also noteworthy was the creation of a specific department to combat
illegal financial activities (Department of Surveillance of Illegal Activities - DECIF) in late
1999. The objective is to be more efficient when investigating financial crimes, particularly
money laundering.
17.  Intense work has been carried out in the field of standards, thus bringing Brazil's
banking regulation closer in line with the best international standards. Progress has also
been made with regard to accounting standards and auditing rules established by the
Central Bank, as well as all regulations designed to control risks within financial
institutions. With regard to market risk, interest rates risk and foreign exchange risk,
alterations were made in Resolution 2099/94 to establish limits for operational leverage in
accordance with the risk involved, thus bringing Brazilian requirements closer to the
standards recommended by the Basel Committee. With regard to credit risk, new criteria
have been established, in respect to the classification of credit operations as well as
adequate provisioning. Such steps are important not only because of the standards involved,
but also because they will foster a better culture of credit management in Brazil.
37



18.   During the financial system restructuring process, there was a substantial reductioa
in the number of bank branches, specially in remote and unassisted locations. In July 2001,
89,7% of the population had access to banking services in their own municipalities. This
data varied across states, ranging from 100% to 54,5%. The postal service estimates thzt
approximately 40 million individuals do not have access to financial services in Brazi.
Resolution 2.707/2000 and Circular 2.978/2000 aim to reach these individuals by allowing
financial services to be provided by non-financial companies, such as post offices and
lottery houses, whereby the contracting financial institution is fully responsible for
transactions carried out by their correspondents. The Central Bank will study ways of
monitoring the progress in access to financial services by appropriate indicators.
19.   Despite the sounder  financial system  and  macroeconomic stability, Braziliaii
banking and financial intermediation in general remain underdeveloped (loans/GDP at
28.8%) and inefficient (wide bank spreads). Efforts to address this situation began when .i
report called "Interest Rates and Bank Spreads" was released in October 1999 by the
Central Bank. The report includes suggestions on steps to be taken (understanding highi
borrower interest rates, including the identification of spread components, such a;
administrative costs, tax burdens, default risks and bank margins). Bank spreads reached
levels exceeding 68% per annum in early 1999. Since then, and thanks to the new step,
taken, they have slashed this rate in half (34% per annum in January 2001).
20.   Initiatives already undertaken include reducing reserve requirements for time
deposits from 30% in April 1999 to zero, while monetary reserves for demand deposits fell
from 75% in April 1999 to 45% in June 2000. Tax policies have also had a significant
impact on the reduction of bank spreads; one example is the reduction of the tax OII
financial operations by individuals, which fell from 6% to 1.5%. The Central Bank has also
injected additional dynamism into efforts to regulate and control risks within financial
institutions. It has done so by creating stricter classifications and provisioning rules fo:-
credit operations (Resolution 2682, December 21, 1999).
21.   In order to encourage competition among financial institutions and to foster greate-
transparency in bank operations, the Central Bank has been promoting better and broader
dissemination of basic information on the rates charged by financial institutions. Since
October last year, the Central Bank has used its home-page on the Internet to disseminate
information on interest rates charged by financial institutions during their primary credi
operations. This increased focus on transparency has also led the Central Bank to improve
its data collection systems on credit operations handled by financial institutions. Beginning
May 31, 2000 financial institutions began providing the Central Bank with better qualit-
and more detailed information on their credit operations, including minimum and maximurn.
rates, fees charged to cover taxes and operational costs, delays, and average time frarnes foi
the free credit segment's principal operations.
22.   One of the key aspects that have been targeted by the Central Bank in its efforts tc
reduce interest rates is the problem of credit risk. The Central Bank has been intensifying
its efforts to broaden and improve information systems of credit risk bureaus, as well as the
efforts to create more suitable credit instruments and mechanisms to streamline lawsuits
meant to collect outstanding loans. Steps taken include the creation of the Bank Credit Note
38



(CCB). This is a credit instrument involving simpler and speedier court proceedings during
loan collection execution (Provisional Measure 1925/99, current 2.065-19/2001).
23.   The Credit Risk Center was created by the Central Bank in 1997 as an important
tool to be used in supervising the credit portfolios of financial institutions, and as a credit
risk bureau for the system. Initially, the Center began collecting data on indebtedness
exceeding R$ 50 thousand per client. However the scope of the work was extended in 1999
and then in 2001. Since then it has collected data on indebtedness exceeding R$ 20
thousand and R$ 5 thousand respectively. The Central Bank has done more than expand the
scope of the Credit Risk Center's activities; it has also updated and modernized its
activities, including user access, thus enhancing the use of the Center's data in ways more
fully in line with the objectives of supervision and providing information on credit
operations.
Banking Reform and Financial Sector Future Changes
24.   All efforts to modernize and restructure the Brazilian banking system since 1994
have been implemented without altering Law 4595 (dated December 31, 1964), which
provides the basic operational guidelines for the Central Bank and the National Financial
System. Currently, a draft Constitutional Amendment to modify the article on the financial
system, in order to allow the proposition of changes to the 1964 Banking Law, is under
discussion within Congress. The Government's goal is to include in a Complementary Law,
also submitted to Congress, the regulatory practices and principles that have already been
adopted. With regard to the Central Bank, it has been working with a high degree of
operational autonomy, in charge of monetary policy, while the Finance Ministry sets the
inflation targets. On the banks supervision role of the Central Bank, the proposal currently
under consideration by the Government pays special attention to systemic financial system
concerns. In its program for 2001-2002, the Government aims at preserving the advances
already made through new legislation, to be submitted to Congress, establishing that the
priority objective of the Central Bank is to guarantee the stability of the currency and
giving fixed mandates to its President and Directors, increasing their accountability to the
public and Congress and requiring them to operate in a increased transparent way.
25.   The Brazilian government and Central Bank officers remain committed in
establishing a safer and more efficient banking and financial system. The next major step
will be implementing a new payment system, to be in place next January. Further studies
are already in progress with regard to banking failure resolution, including a contingency
plan to deal with the circumstance of a banking crisis, and institutional changes to reduce
bank spreads.
26.  In order to increase the financial system's stability and efficiency the Board of
Directors of the Central Bank has approved (June 30, 1999) the blueprint reform for the
Brazilian Payment System. Under the new system, systemic risk will be managed in a
better fashion. Clearinghouses and participants themselves will take on the responsibility
for the possible default of their members. There will also be an increase in the overall
efficiency of the system after a large-sum transfer system that handles one operation at a
time, on a real-time basis, has been set up.
39



27.   The Central Bank has already defined the basic operational guidelines that it plar .s
to adopt in handling its bank reserves, rediscounts, reserve requirements on demand
deposits, the Special System for Liquidation and Custody (SELIC) and the Special
Reserves Transfer System (STR) that the Bank will be providing. Provisional Measuie
2008, dated December 15, 1999, transforrned into Law 10.214, dated March 27, 20G1
regulates the activities of clearing and settlement agencies pursuant to the new Brazilian
Payment System. Closed hearings are currently being held to examine the draft versions (c f
the Resolution and Circular Letter on the new standards governing the payment system.
These documents include the regulations that will govern the activities of organizations that
make up the system.
28.   The timetable for the creation of the new Brazilian Payment System was madz
official through the publication of Circular 3018, dated December 20, 2000. Beginning O 1
October 1, 2001 -- the expected implementation date for the new system -- financihi
institutions will no longer be allowed to have a negative balance at any moment of the da X
in their required reserves held by the Central Bank. Beginning June 1, 2001, the Reserves
Transfer System (STR) will be submitted to comprehensive tests involving the Centrel
Bank, participating banks and clearing and settlement agencies. Beginning August 1, 2001,
the Central Bank will begin real-time execution of instruments to monitor balances ani
settlements in Bank Reserve accounts. It will also offer a mechanism to provide real-timn;
fund transfers, operation by operation, directly among Bank Reserve accounts. Settlements
directly involving bank reserve accounts will only be permitted on the basis of financial
results from the clearing and settlement agencies. These agencies will become operational
after evaluation and approval by the Central Bank of Brazil.
29.  Interventions and liquidations of financial institutions ("bank failure resolution")
have improved thanks to the new tools introduced by Law 9447/97. However, thes,~
procedures still need to be further improved, especially with regard to new restructurinig
solutions based on market practices, able to foster asset recovery rates and reduce the
payback periods. Another matter of concern is the need to provide legal protection to
interveners and liquidators; a great deal of pressure is brought to bear upon them by forme-
controllers and depositors whose lawsuits have inhibited progress in this area. The Central
Bank has been studying these issues with a view to perfecting current legislation on
insolvency procedures involving financial institutions.
30.   The FGC - Credit Guarantee Fund - is a private funded institution that performs the
role of a deposit insurance agency in Brazil. The idea is to restructure the FGC following
international examples and to have it participating more actively in finding solutions for
problem banks by using its resources to come up with alternatives to deal with insolven.
institutions. Eventually, FGC could also take on responsibilities of a liquidator in a new
legal framework regulating bank failures.
31.  In addition to the legal modifications mentioned above, the Central Bank has also
been studying the preparation of a contingency plan to be used in dealing with possible
bank crises in order to avoid the propagation of systemic risks. This would encompass the
40



rules, procedures and limits to be utilized and the identification of the resources, including
personnel and management, to be deployed when addressing such situations.
32.   The Central Bank intends to continue its efforts to increase the efficiency of
financial system and reduce bank spreads. The board has already approved the investment
program to improve the quality of the Credit Risk Center over the next two years, including
new detailed positive information and a more user-friendly system of access. For that
purpose the Central Bank will continue to tackle friction points which overburden financial
intermediation (taxes, reserve requirements on demand deposits, compulsory credit lines for
agriculture and housing), improve creditor rights (better contract enforceability,
repossession of collateral), more efficient judicial procedures, and bankruptcy reform
(strengthening the position of secured creditors). The Central Bank also intends to promote
more detailed discussions with a view to developing bad debt indicators by using
information from the Central Bank's Credit Risk Center; by modeling bank spreads through
the use of macroeconomic and financial variable and by producing analyses on the
competitiveness and productivity of the financial sector.
Strengthening Capital Markets
33.   The Brazilian Securities and Exchange Commission - CVM (Comissao de Valores
Mobiliarios) - is a federal agency linked to the Ministry of Finance, created by Law 6385 of
December 7", 1976. The CVM has the power to discipline, rule on and supervise the
activities of all capital market participants. Its regulatory activities encompass all matters
relating to the Brazilian Securities Market, such as registration for publicly held companies,
registration of public offerings, accreditation of independent auditors and portfolio
managers, and the establishment of rules concerning the creation, functioning and
operational procedures of stock exchanges in Brazil. It is under consideration by the
Government the establishment of a single strong capital market agency, which would
supervise the capital market, the insurance sector, mutual funds and private pension funds.
34.   The principal laws governing the securities market are Law 6385/76  -- the
"Securities Act"-- which regulates the securities market and created the CVM - and Law
6404/76 (amended by Law 9457/97), the "Corporate Law ".
35.   A bill to amend both laws is under discussion in Congress. Among other key
provisions the proposal: (1) turns CVM into an independent regulatory body to supervise
activities in the Brazilian securities market; (2) modernizes the Corporate Law by
expanding minority shareholder rights and introducing corporate governance principles; (3)
expands the definition of crimes against capital markets and sets stiff penalties for such
crimes; (4) standardizes accounting and transparency based on accounting principles
following the best international standards; (5) introduces Internet disclosure requirements.
36.   CVM's agenda for reform focuses primarily on improving minority shareholders
protection, developing a corporate governance culture in Brazil, and increasing
transparency while strengthening enforcement of current laws. Priority areas include
increased   transparency in public offerings, strengthening underwriting practices,
reinforcing minority protection during tender offers for corporate delisting or buybacks,
41



strengthening accounting practices based on international acceptable standards and
preparing a manual on good corporate governance practices.
37.   The degree of investor protection is a key factor for the development of capital
markets. In countries with effective investor protection mechanisms, investors are mo- e
inclined to finance companies and therefore the cost of capital is reduced. The bill lo
reform the Corporate Law sent to Congress includes some key points designed to improve
minority shareholders protection that deserve to be highlighted:
-  Whenever a change of control occurs minority shareholders holding common shartes
will be able to sell their shares at 80% of the price paid to the controller;
- The Fiscal Board (Supervisory Board) of the company will be composed of orne
member elected by minority shareholders, one member elected by controllers ard
the third member will be elected by all shareholders; and
- election of one member of the Board (Conselho Administrativo) by those preferred
shareholders representing at least IO% of total capital (the controlling shareholder
cannot vote in this election). Election of one member of the Board of Directors ty
those minority shareholders representing 155% of voting shares.
38.   Strengthening market surveillance is one of the main objectives of the new bill,
which sets stiff penalties and determines that market manipulation through the use of
insider information is a crime subject to penal sanctions. With the objective of reducing
money laundering, CVM has issued instructions requiring that large-value transactions fe
reported.
39.   The draft Corporate Law  establishes a new  professional organization, tlie
Accounting Standards Committee (CPC),. a non-profit organization designed to implement
and disclose sound accounting principles and practices. The Committee's decisions will te
approved by up to nine individual members selected for their unblemished reputation and
accredited technical expertise. Committee members will be chosen from the ranks of capital
market regulatory bodies, professional associations, or other organizations listed in the dra-ft
law. CVM instructions have also enhanced the independence of auditors by restricting the r
services to companies under the control of a single group to either auditing or consulting.
40.   The Sao Paulo Stock Exchange (BOVESPA) has taken the commendable initiatihe
of creating NOVO MERCADO (NEW MARKET), a section with listing requirements that
incorporate the best corporate governance principles and full disclosure rules. Companics
wishing to be listed in this section should voluntarily undertake to abide by stricter
requirements than those currently in force under Brazilian legislation. This section has been
modeled on the concept that the valuation and liquidity of shares are positively related to
shareholders' rights, to efficiency in guaranteeing investors' rights and to the quality of the
information provided. The main listing requirements at NOVO MERCADO are: (1) one
share/one vote; (2) full tag-along rights; (3) delisting offer to be made only at economic
value; (4) an arbitration chamber to settle disputes between minority and controlling
shareholders; (5) minimum free floats of 25% of capital; and (6) an audit committee witih
a majority of outsiders (minority shareholders).
42



41.   The Brazilian government has recently issued new guidelines with important
changes, such as the revision of pension fund investment guidelines. This revision included
more generous limits in cases of investments in companies with good corporate govemance
practices.
42.  In line with its agenda for reforms aimed at fostering more efficient enforcement
and increasing shareholder protection, CVM has issued instructions and deliberations
covering the following points:
- disclosure of information related to acquisition of control and additional stock
purchases by the controlling party (Instruction 299/99);
-  auditors: conflict of interests (Instruction 308/99);
-  definition of abuse of power by the controlling slhareholder (Instruction 323/00);
- reduction of the minimum quorum required to set up the Audit Committee
(Instruction 324/00);
- items to be decided by a general assembly vote may not be placed on a meeting's
agenda under the heading of "other business" (Instruction 34 1/00);
- companies with DRs shall give 15 days' notice before a shareholders meeting -
increased from the normal requirement of 8 days (Instruction 342/00);
- introduction of the option to eliminate the steps which complicate the power-of-
attorney process (consularization), as long as such elimination is provided in the
company's bylaws (Instruction 342/00);
-  Instruction 345/00 reduces the "liquidity dilemma" on public offerings;
- Resolution CMNN 2785/00 - simplifies administrative procedures, reducing time
between inquiry and ruling, and increases penalties on "fast track" procedures.
Request for Financial Assistance
The Government remains firmly committed to its program of reforms as outlined
above, and would welcome World Bank financial assistance. We appreciate your prompt
consideration of a Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, in support of the
measures that have been enacted and that are under implementation. We look forward to
continue working together with the Bank on future progranmatic structural adjustment
loans regarding financial sector and capital markets development.
Yours sincerely,
Pedro Sampaio Malan
Minister of Finance
43



ANNEX 2: BRAZIL: PROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION - ACTIONS, INDICATORS AND GOALS
Intermediation    Efficiency in intermediation      Efficiency in intermediation      Efficiency in intermediation      Efficiency in       Efficiency in       Efficiency in
Efficiency and    *   Major progress achieved in                                                                       intermediation      intermediation       intermediation
Access to         Central Bank actions to resolve                                                                                                               *   Increase efficiency
Financial         structural causes of Brazil's record                                                                                                          and depth of financial
Services          high intermediation spreads.                                                                                                                  intermediation provided
Principal actions are:                                                                                                                       by the private sector
> Risk Center strengthened and   *   Risk Center system readiness    *   Audit of Risk Center     *   Use of Risk      *   Approval of    *   Poverty reduction
Debtor information            to provide enhanced set of    functioning and action plan to    Center information    finetuning action  through growth
improved                      debtor information            remedy any shortcomings                               plan
*   Publication of law for the                                     *   Cedula
Cedula de Credito Bancario                                     Legislation
> Contract enforcement                                           *   Publication of amendments to  effective           *   New
strengthened                                                Bankruptcy Law                                        bankruptcy law
> Bankruptcy reform being                                                                                              effective
considered by Congress    *   Completion of study of        *   Policy recommendations        *   Issue of Study   *   Policy debate
financial sector taxation       issued on new financial sector                     completed
taxation framework
Broadenine of access             Broadenine of access              Broadening of access              Broadenine of       Broadenine of       Broadenine of access
*   Innovative steps taken to                                                                        access              access              *   Broaden access to
reach under-served population.                                                                                                               financial services for
Principal actions are:                                                                                                                       under-served population
> Accessibility of financial   *   Completion of strategy to     *   Agreed action plan to further   *   Strategy      *   Approval of    *   Monitoring system
services widened          further develop availability of   develop availability of financial  completed          action plans        maintained to measure
> Cooperative services        financial services to under-served  services to under-served sectors                                         progress beyond
deepened                  sectors                                                                                                     programmatic period
*   Completion of strategy to     *   Agreed action plan to widen    *   Strategy       *   Approval of    *   Poverty reduction
widen the use of movable collateral   the use of movable collateral to  completed       action plans        through increased access
to mobilize credit                mobilize credit
44



ANNEX 2: BRAZIL: PROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION - ACTIONS, INDICATORS AND GOALS
Monitoring lhdators of Program
PoLecy Aree,s          ActIonS    ~                Inditivt Actions Expected by     Indicatrve Actions Expected by                                              ProgrivaGoolsoand
Policy Arm  Acions Compimd2*d toan                                             3rd Lima                   2' Leon              3r Load                 utoe
Banking System     Bank regulation and supervision    Bank reaulation and supervision  Bank regulation and supervision    Bank reaulation   Bank regulation     Bank regulation and
Soundness and                                                                                                          and supervision      and supervision     supervision
Safety Net         *   Quantum reforms achieved in                                                                                                              *   Ensure soundness in
modernizing and strengthening                                                                                                                the operation of both
supervisory methods, capital                                                                                                                 public and private banks
adequacy standards, asset
classification, examination
manuals, bank rating, Credit Risk
Center and streamlining of on- and   *   New off-site surveillance  *   Effectiveness of new off-site    *   Central Bank    *   Central Bank    *   Poverty impact
off-site supervision,. Principal  system operational               surveillance system                 Reports              Reports         through crisis prevention
actions are:                    *   Enhanced Risk Center           *   Effectiveness of the enhanced
> Consolidated supervision       operational                        Risk Center
introduced
> Capital adequacy standards
strengthened
> Sound asset classification
introduced
> Major supervisory
reorganization completed
> Advanced contract            *   Introduction of Examination   *   Universal application of     *   Central Bank    *   Central Bank
implementation to develop    Manuals                           Examination Manuals           Reports              Reports
examination manuals
> Advanced contracting to     *   Introduction of bank rating    *   Universal application of bank
develop bank rating system   system                         rating system
*    Law submitted to Congress to    *   Law effective             *   Record of        *   Record of
better protect supervisors                                         submission           Law effectiveness
Bank resolution and deposit      Bank resolution and deposit       Bank resolution and deposit      Bank resolution      Bank resolution     Bank resolution and
insurance                       insurance                          insurance                        and deposit          and deposit         deposit insurance
insurance           insurance
*     Complex and far reaching    *   Preparation of draft legislation    *   New Law and new deposit  *   Record of     *   Record of       *   Improve efficiency
review program of bank exit      and new draft statutes for the deposit  insurance statutes effective  submission of Law    effectiveness of  of bank exit process
framework and role of deposit   insurer, and their submission for                                    and new draft       Law and new         *   Improve asset
insurance agreed and initiated  approval                                                            statutes             statutes            recovery
Contingencv olannine             Contingenev plannine              Contingencv Planning              Contineencv         Contineencv         Contineencv Diannini
plannine            planning
*     Central Bank decision      *   Completion of blueprint and   *   Blueprint updated and tested    *   Approval of    *   Blueprint      *   Strengthen capacity
adopted to develop contingency  approval by the authorities                                         blueprint            updated             to prevent a crisis and to
planning and intensive work                                                                                                                  respond promptly and
program agreed and initiated                                                                                                                 effectively if it occurs
45



ANNEX 2: BRAZIL: PROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION - ACTIONS, INDICATORS AND GOALS
_Monitoring Inidicators of Program
P'oliey Areas           Actions Completed      ;         Indicative Actions Expected by  Indicative Actions Expeekd by                   Out outs                     Prog            and
Policy Ares  ActionsCompleted2nd Loan                                             3rd Lon2" Loan                                    3" LoanOtens
Payments and       *    Landmark reform launched      *   New Payments System,           *   Satisfactory functioning of    *   Central Bank    *    Central Bank    *   Reduce systemic
Securities         and demanding implementation       particularly RTGS, fuilly operational   new Payments System           reports             reports               risk and Central Bank
Clearance and      timetable maintained. Enabling                                                                                                                     exposure, increase overall
Settlement         legislation passed                 *   Guidelines for private payment   *   Review of guidelines and any   *   Guidelines     *    Guidelines      efficiency in clearing and
Systems                                               and securities clearance finalized and  shortcomings corrected       issued                updated              settlement, and ensure
issued                                                                                                          prudent management of
remaining risks
Securities         Corporate zovernance               Corporate governance               Corporate eovernance               Cornorate            Corporate            Corporate eovernance
Markets                                                                                                                     governance           governance
*      Submission to Congress     *   Publication of revised          *   Review of effectiveness of    *   Record of        *    Review          *   Stimulate the
and partial sanction of revised  Corporate Law                     new govemance framework           Corporate Law        completed            demand by local and
Corporate Law                                                                                        effectiveness                             foreign investors for
securities issued by
Brazilian firms
*    Good govemance guidelines                                       *   Additional regulations to      *   Regulations      *   Regulations      *   Broaden the access
issued by stock exchange and      *   Additional regulations to         strengthen disclosure and       issued                  issued            to long term finance,
BNDESpar and principles           perfect and consolidate minority      transparency                                                              especially for medium-
incorporated in pension fund      shareholder protection                                                                                          size enterprises
investment regulations                                                                                                                            *   Poverty reduction
through growth
Reeulatory framework and          Regulatory framework and           Reeaulatory framework and          Reisulatory          Reisulatory          Reaulatory framework
enforcement                       enforcement                        enforcement                        framework and        framework and        and enforcement
enforcement          enforcement
*    Submission to Congress and    *   Publication of revised CVM    *   Review/recommendations on    *   Record of          *    Review          *   Develop an
partial sanction of legal         Law                                effectiveness of new CVM Law       CVM Law              completed            effective regulatory
amendments to enhance CVM's                                          and appropriate amendments         effectiveness                             structure, with
enforcement capacity and establish                                    proposed                                                                    appropriate disclosure
independence of accounting                                           *   Guiding principles agreed for                       *    Acceptance of   and transparency, for
standards setting                                                    establishment of new professional                       guiding principles    securities markets
body for the setting of accounting                     and blueprint
standards
*   CVM regulations issued to     *   Blueprint for consolidation of    *   Mutual fund and pension fund   *    Blue print   *    Regulation
enhance information disclosure and   mutual fund regulation and pension    regulation consolidated      completed            issued
investor protection              fund regulation
*    Agreement on principles of   *   Submission to Congress of      *   Publication of Central         *   Record of        *    Record of
draft Central Bank/financial system    Central Bank/financial system law  Bank/financial system law     Law submission       Law effectiveness
law
46



ANNEX 3: BRAZIL: COMPREHENSIVE VIEW OF FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
Poliey Areas  JComplete  Re(orms                                                                Expected IReforms          JGoals
Fundamental      *   Significant progress in Congressional discussion of amendment to    *   Approval of amendment to          *   Enable adaptation of
Financial        Constitution Article 192 to unblock development of fundamental financial  Constitution Article 192            financial sector
System           sector legislation                                                      *   Submission to Congress of Central  legislation/regulation to
Legislation      *   Agreement on overall principles of draft law ready for submission to  Bank/financial system law           changing market conditions
Congress to:                                                                                                 *   Institutionalize monetary
-- strengthen Central Bank independence and accountability                                                  policy independence
-- reorganize and rationalize responsibilities for financial sector regulation,                            *   Rationalize institutional
allocating systemic issues to the Central Bank and merging other regulatory                                responsibilities for financial
functions under one umbrella.                                                                              sector regulation
Intermediation    1. Efficiency in intermediation                                        *   Remuneration of a meaningful      *   Increase efficiency and
Efficiency and    Launching of Central Bank program focused on durable increases in efficiency   fraction of reserve requirements based    depth of financial intermediation
Access to        in intermediation, including:                                           on an appropriate standard            provided by the private sector
Financial        *   Significant reduction achieved in unremunerated reserve requirements  *   Completion of study to recommend   *   Broaden access to financial
Services         *   Improvement in quality and quantity of information on debtors available to  revenue-neutral reforms to of financial   services for under-served
the market through:                                                    sector taxation, including forced     population
-- Passage of law on bank secrecy that reduces barriers to the exchange of  investments                     *   Effective monitoring in
debtor information within the financial system                       *   Risk center system readiness to    place to measure progress in
-- Increased disclosure of debtor information by the Central Bank risk center   provide enhanced set of information on   access to financial services
Improved credit contract enforcement through:                      debtors to creditors
-- Draft law submitted to Congress to overhaul the Bankruptcy Law     *   Approval of amendments to
-- Introduction of new lending contract (Cedula de Credito Bancario) that  Bankruptcy Law and confirmation by
eliminates any disputes on the size of the debt, speeding enforcement  law of the Cedula de Credito Bancario
-- Expanding coverage of a contract that allows the automatic transfer of
property title to the creditor, in the event of default (Alienacao Fiduciaria)
2. Broadening of access
Innovative steps taken to broaden the access to financial services for the under-
served population, including:                                      .   *   Action plan to further develop
*   Authorization for banks to enhance accessibility to financial services by  availability of financial services to
using locations other than branches (post offices, supermarkets, and lottery  under-served sectors (e.g., micro-
points)                                                                enterprises and low-income
*   Easing of restrictions to widen membership for cooperatives, compensated   households), following
by stronger prudential oversight through cooperative associations      recommendations of study
*   Completion of study and
recommendations to widen the use of
movable collateral to mobilize credit
47



ANNEX 3: BRAZIL: COMPREHENSIVE VIEW OF FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
Policy Ar'eas                           C           R                                          Expt        o                           Goals
Banking         2.  Bank regulation and supervision                                    a   Incorporation into the supervisory    *   Ensure soundness in the
System          Major surge in actions taken to strengthen bank supervision and regulation,  process of Examination Manuals     operation of both public and
Soundness and   including:                                                             *   Introduction a supervisory          private banks
Safety Net       *   Introduction of consolidated supervision of financial conglomerates,  methodology based on a CAMELS-type
including on-site examinations of Brazilian bank branches abroad      bank rating system
a   Strengthening of capital adequacy standards (e.g., increase from 8 to 11  *   New off-site surveillance system
percent capital requirement for credit risk; introduction of capital requirements   operational and integrated with the on-
for market risk; limits on deferred tax assets that can count as capital; increased   site function
capital requirements to encourage divestiture of shares in nonfinancial  *   Enhanced Risk Center fully
enterprises)                                                          operational and use of its data for credit
*   Creation of a sound system of asset classification that supports more  risk modeling by regulators
rigorous provisioning rules                                           *   Establishment by law of adequate
*   Major organizational streamlining and capacity building for on- and off-    legal protection for supervisory acts
site supervisory functions                                            carried out in good faith
*   Examination manuals in advanced stage of preparation
* Contracting of consultants underway to develop CAMELS-type rating
system
*   Major enhancement of Credit Risk Center underway to sharpen supervisory
assessment of credit risk
2. Lender of last resort
*   Best practices (short term liquidity advances at penalty interest rates and  *   Completion of payment system
with adequate collateral) adopted. Remaining weakness of Central Bank  reform
overdrafts related to payment settlement, exposing it to losses when Banks fail,                            *   Stop Central Bank losses
is being addressed by the payment system reforms.
48



ANNEX 3: BRAZIL: COMPREHENSIVE VIEW OF FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
Poiicy Are"                             Completed Reforms                                      Expeeted Reforms                        Goals
3. Bank resolution                                                     *   Submission to Congress of draft  *   Re-establish banking
*   Program initiated for a comprehensive review of the bank exit framework,   legislation to improve bank exit  soundness efficiently and
including prompt correction, bank closure and liquidation, and the role of the  framework                   enhance asset recovery
deposit insurer (FGC). Key guiding principles include:                 *   Completion of study and
-- decrease Central Bank role as extra-judicial liquidator           amendment of Statutes of deposit
-- increase private sector participation in asset recovery          insurer (FGC)
-- develop more effective, swifter modalities for failed bank resolution
-- explore access to contingent financing for the deposit insurer
4. Contingency planning
*   Work program underway to ensure preparedness (legal, institutional, etc.)    *   Blue print of contingency plan  *   Strengthen capacity to
in case of an unforeseen financial crisis. Key areas to be addressed are:  approved by the Central Bank board  prevent crises and improve crisis
-- contagion and systemic illiquidity risks                                                               management
-- inter-institutional coordination and decision making processes
-- consistency with planned reforms to the bank exit framework
-- strength of legal authority (including, question of ex-ante special powers in
law versus emergency legislation if needed)
Public Bank      1. State Banks                                                         *   Completion of pending            *   Phase out of deposit-taking
Reform           Multidimensional restructuring program already applied to 44 state banks (out    privatization of state banks  state banks
of a total of 47) in the last four years, including:
*   Liquidation of 10 banks
*   Privatization of 7 banks (including of Banespa)
*   Restructuring of 5 banks
*   Conversion into development agencies of 16 banks
*   Remaining 6 banks being prepared for privatization
2. Federal Banks
*   Major diagnosis performed by reputable international firm and results  *   Clear definition of medium and  *   Increase gradually but
disseminated to the public                                             long term strategies to reassess     steadily the role of the private
mandates, develop plans to improve   sector in financial markets where
efficiency and efficacy of the public  federal banks operate (e.g. rural
policies implemented by them, increase   and housing finance)
transparency on their fiscal costs, and
reduce their fiscal burden
*   Completion of rigorous inspections by Central Bank, degree of     *   Progress in the federal banks in
noncompliance with regulatory standards ascertained, and enforcement actions    compliance with Central Bank
underway                                                               enforcement actions.
49



ANNEX 3: BRAZIL: COMPREHENSIVE VIEW OF FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
Policy Aras                              Co:mpleted Reforms                                       Expeeted Reforms                         coals
Payments and    *   Landmark reform of the payments system launched. Implementation       *   Live operation of the new Real    *   Reduce systemic risk and
Securities       progress in line with demanding timetable                                Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) inter-   Central Bank exposure to risk of
Clearance and    *   Passage of enabling legislation that provides foundations for the new  bank payments system and its        loss in the settlement of
Settlement       payments system and clarifies Central Bank regulatory role therein       integration with an upgraded          payments
Systems          *   Issuance of provisional guidelines that set minimum standards for private    government securities book entry  *   Ensure prudent
payment and securities clearing arrangements                                                                   management of remaining risks
*   Intra-day delivery versus payment   by participants in the clearing
*   Consolidation of equities clearing facilities in Sao Paulo and exchange  (DVP) system for government securities  processes, including for
based trading of government securities at Rio de Janeiro, reducing liquidity  operational                      securities transactions
fragmentation                                                           *   Issuance of final guidelines for   *   Increasing overall
private clearing arrangements for     efficiency in the clearing and
payments and securities transactions  settlement process
*   Reduction in the time taken to
settle securities transactions
50



ANNEX 3: BRAZIL: COMPREHENSIVE VIEW OF FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
Policy Areas                            Completi&-Reforns                                      Expected Refor,ms                      Goals
Securities       1. Corporate governance                                               *   Revised Corporate Law and CVM    *   Stimulate the demand by
Markets          *   Partial sanction by Congress of amendments to Corporate Law which:  Laws effective                      local and foreign investors for
-- foster issuance of voting shares                                  *   Issuance by CVM of Manual of     securities issued by Brazilian
-- clarify minimum features of preferred shares                      Best Practices on Governance         firms
-- significantly restore "tag along rights" (right of minority shareholder to  *   BNDESpar's good corporate  *   Broaden the access to long
obtain same share price as controlling shareholder in case of change in  governance guidelines applied to its  term finance, especially for
corporate control)                                                  new equity investments                medium-size enterprises
-- improve minority shareholder representation in board and audit committee                               *   Develop an effective
*   CVM regulations issued to:                                        *   Issuance of additional regulations   regulatory structure, with
-- protect financial interests of minority shareholders when companies go  to perfect and consolidate minority  appropriate disclosure and
private                                                             shareholder protection, particularly in    transparency, for securities
-- require disclosure of large acquisitions by controlling shareholders  instances of corporate closure or share    markets
impose obligatory tender offer to remaining shareholders by controlling  reucases
shareholders after a threshold of acquisition                       repurchases
* Pilot program in place to incorporate good corporate govemance guidelines
into BNDESpar equity investments
* Issuance of good governance criteria by the stock exchange (BOVESPA)
to be used for disclosure of governance quality of listed companies. Good  *   Consolidation of mutual fund (debt
governance companies can apply to be traded in a newly established platform  and equity) regulation under a single
within BOVESPA, to attract minority investors                         agency
*   New guidelines issued for pension funds that encourage investment in  *   Consolidation of pension fund
companies with good governance                                        (open and closed) regulation under a
single agency
2. Regulatory framework and enforcement
*   Partial sanction by Congress of amendments to CVM law enhancing its  *   Action plan to enhance regulatory
enforcement capacity (e.g., streamlining of appeals system, criminalization of    enforcement, following
insider trading and "front running")                                  recommendations of study
*   Agreement on overall principles of draft Central Bank/Financial Markets    *   Completion of study on CVM
law to reorganize and rationalize responsibilities for financial sector regulation,   resource needs, given its mandates
allocating systemic issues to the Central Bank and merging other regulatory  *   Central Bank/Financial Markets
functions under one umbrella.                                         Law approved
3. Accounting and auditing
*   Partial sanction by Congress of legal reforms to establish independent
professional body for the setting of accounting standards and facilitate  *   Establishment of new professional
convergence with intemational standards                               body for the setting of accounting
*   CVM regulations issued to reduce conflicts of interest between auditing  standards
and consultancy services
51



ANNEX 3: BRAZIL: COMPREHENSIVE VIEW OF FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
Policy Areas                             Completed Reforms                                        Expected Reforms                         Goals
4. Disclosure and investor protection
*   CVM regulations issued that establish sound disclosure requirements for  *   Issuance of CVM regulations
equity mutual funds                                                      strengthening disclosure requirements
*   CVM regulations on fund managers issued to reduce conflicts of interest    for public offerings and increasing
and enhance their fiduciary responsibilities                            transparency of underwriting practices
*   CVM regulation issued on disclosure of large transactions to prevent  .   Issuance of CVM regulation to
money laundering                                                        strengthen disclosure of material events
by listed companies
5. Foreign investors
*   Issuance of CMN resolution and accompanying CVM regulation
significantly easing access of foreign investors to Brazilian securities markets
52



Annex 4: Brazil's Banking Sector: Structure, Performance and Issues
I.   Structure of the banking sector
1.    Brazil exhibits both a low level and low efficiency of financial intermediation.
Liquid Liabilities to GDP are lower than the Latin American and the upper middle-
income group average. Private credit as share of GDP is at the average Latin American
level, but lower than the average for upper idle income countries. The ex-post net
interest margin and the overhead costs of banks are significantly higher than the averages
for Latin American and upper middle-income group countries. Furthermore, Brazil's
banking sector is still dominated by govermnent-owned banks. Banks are typically at the
center of financial conglomerates that include insurance and leasing companies and
securities firms.
Table 1:  Brazil's financial sector relative to other countries
Liquid    Private Credit    Net Interest    Overhead Costs
Liabilities                           Margin
Brazil                    28.0          29.7               7.8               7.3
Latin America             34.9          29.5               5.5               5.8
Of which: Argentina       21.7           18.3              4.2              6.7
Chile           42.0          68.2               3.9              3.0
Mexico         26.6           15.8              3.6               6.6
Upper middle              57.6          49.7               4.1               3.9
income countries
OECD Countries            76.3          88.5               2.7               2.7
Liquid Liabilities = currency plus demand and interest bearing liabilities of financial intermediaries as
share of GDP; Private Credit = total claims on private nonfinancial sector by financial institutions as share
of GDP; Net Interest Margin = accounting value of banks' net interest revenue as share of total assets;
Overhead Cost = accounting value of a bank's overhead costs share of total assets. All numbers are for
1997. Source: Beck, Demirguc-Kunt and Levine (2000).
2.     The Brazilian banking sector has undergone substantial and rapid structural
transformation over the last 7 years. After the 1988 constitution liberalized entry into
the banking sector, the number of banks doubled within two years. Years of high
inflation created incentives for an overbranched banking system in order to capture the
float income, the inflationary revenue stemming from the collection of low-cost liabilities
that were invested at high rates in short-term securities. According to estimates, this
inflationary revenue accounted for almost 40%  of total revenue.  The monetary
stabilization brought about by the Real Plan eliminated this source of revenue, but also
resulted in rapid deposit growth and subsequent credit growth. While the Central Bank
tried to dampen the expansion through increased reserve requirements, credit still grew
by almost 60% during the first year of the Real Plan. While this rapid credit growth
compensated initially for the loss of the float income, the downturn in the second quarter
of 1995 in the aftermath of the Mexico crisis led to a significant increase in non-
performing loans. The Central Bank reacted to this crisis by creating an industry-based
non-governmental deposit insurance to increase confidence in the financial system, while
53



at the same time decreasing moral hazard by moving from an implicit unlimited coverage
to an explicit limited coverage, and by aggressively intervening in private and state-
owned banks. Three large private banks - Econ6mico, Bamerindus and Nacional - were
intervened in 1995/96. To facilitate the restructuring of failing private and state banks.
two special programs were established - PROER and PROES, respectively. PROER
offered tax incentives and credit facilities to the acquirer of a failing private bank.
PROES was used to reduce the state government's role in the financial sector b3
privatizing, restructuring, liquidating or transforming state-owned banks into second-tier
development agencies.I The restructuring process led to a decrease in both the number ot
banks and branches in the financial system, and is responsible for the decrease in state
banks' market share and the increase in the foreign bank market share.
3.     The restructuring process has led to significant changes in the ownershij
structure of the Brazilian banking sector. While the market share of both public and
private domestic banks have continuously fallen over the last 7 years (Table 3), the
market share of foreign banks has increased significantly. This increase is to a large
extent due to the entry of new banks through acquisition of existing banks. The
decreasing share of public banks is exclusively explained by the privatization oi
liquidation of state-owned banks; the federal banks maintained their market share.
4.     While there are a large number of financial institutions, the Brazilian
banking market is relatively concentrated. While the share of the largest five deposit-
taking institutions has decreased over the last 7 years, they still dominate the market, witl
a market share of over 50%. The largest two banks are federal banks, while number 3, 4
and 5 are privately owned domestic banks (Table 4).2 The largest 20 institutions holc
over 80% of total banking assets (Table 4), while the smallest 100 institutions hold less
than 5% (Table 8). The number of banks has decreased over the last seven years, resul
of (i) the restructuring process, and (ii) increased regulatory required minimum capita
that forced small banks to increase capital, merge or liquidate.
Table 2: Size and structure of Brazil's banking system
December 1994         December 1996   September 2000
Number of licensed banks  246                     217                191
Number of branches         17,400                 16,255             16,259
Number of employees        532,689                534,162           515,635
Assets (million US$)       354,007 (September)  617,744             441,932
Share of assets held by    60.7%                  53.0%             53.5%
largest 5 banks
All numbers refer to multiple banks, commercial and savings banks and exclude BNDES. Source: Banco
Central do Brasil.
i The recent sale of BANESPA underlines the importance of this process. Of 44 state banks, 10 have been
liquidated, 7 privatized, 5 restructured, 16 converted into development agencies, while 6 still await
privatization. Three state banks did not participate this program.
This does not include the federally owned BNDES, which is a development bank and does not take
deposits from the general public.
54



Table 3: Share of private, foreign and public banks in total banking assets
1994       1995       1996       1997        1998       1999
Private       41.2       39.2       39.2       36.8        35.3       33.1
Banks
Foreign       7.2         8.4        9.8        12.8       18.4       23.2
banks                           I
Public        51.4       52.2       50.9        50.1       45.8       43.0
Banks    I                                  I          I
Source: Banco Central do Brasil
Table 4: Concentration in the Brazilian banking sector
Assets in US$ billion     Market share
Banco do Brasil           77.2                       17.5%
Caixa Economica Federal   68                         15.4%
Bradesco                  42.9                      9.7%
Itau                      28.9                      6.5%
Unibanco                  19.3                     4_4_ _       _ _       _
Top Five                  236.4                     53.5%
Top 20                    370.9                     83.9%
Souirce: Banco Central do Brasil. All numbers are for September 2000 and exclude BNDES.
II. Current situation of the banking sector
5.   The asset structure of private Brazilian banks is characterized by a low share
of loans, a high share of securities, high liquidity and a low share of non-performing
loans. Loans constitute only 40% of total assets, compared to 50% in Argentina and
68% in Mexico. Investments in securities, on the other hand, constitute nearly 30% of
total assets. This still reflects the high dependence of the federal and state governments
on debt financing and the crowding out effect of high interest yields on public bonds.
Liquid assets are relatively high, constituting over 30% of total assets. Brazil's private
banks face a relatively low ratio of non-performing loans (4.3%) and are well provisioned
(8.4% of total loans and 195% of NPL).  The NPL are highest in loans to state and
mu-nicipal governments, mortgage and rural loans. Given that both loans and securities
are mostly short-term, Brazilian banks do not face significant problems of maturity
mismatch.
Table 5: Non-performing loans 1994-99
_I                                1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999
Credit in arrears and liquidation   2.7%    14.4%   5.0%   5.5%    5.4%   4.3%
_as share of total credits
Source: IMF (2001)
6.    Brazil's private banks depend to a low extent on deposits for financing. Total
deposits constitute only 34% of total assets and 39% of total liabilities. Open market
funding (13% of total assets) and borrowings (16% of total assets) are the other major
55



funding sources. Within deposits, demand and time deposits have a surprisingly low
share.
7.    Brazil's private banks are well capitalized. With a ratio of net worth to assets
of 11.4%, the Brazilian private banks seem well capitalized. While their leverage is at
about the same level as Argentinean private banks, it is significantly lower than in
Mexico. Furthermore, the Central Bank demands a risk-weighted minimum capital
adequacy ratio of I l%, well above the 8% recommended by the BIS. The high
capitalization and thus low leverage gives Brazil's private banks room for growth, by
either increasing their assets and thus their leverage or by restructuring their assets from
government paper (that have a zero-weight for the calculation of the risk-weighted
capital-adequacy ratio) to loans. The smaller banks have a higher capital base than the
largest private banks, while there is no significant difference between domestic and
foreign private banks.
Table 6: Brazilian private banks: Balance sheet
Variable                    December 1999, US$    Percentage of
million              assets
1. Current assets                           224,304                 87.9
l.a. Cash                                  6,895                   2.7
l.b. Investments, incl. repos              105,249                 41.2
l.c. Net loans and other credits           100,097                 39.2
1.d. Interbank claims and other current assets  12,062             4.7
2. Other assets                             30,923                  12.1
3. Total assets                             255,227                 100
4. Current liabilities                      177,684                 69.6
4.a. Deposits                              87,390                  34.2
Demand deposits                        12,766                 5.0
Savings deposits                       29,039                  11.4
Time deposits                          4,548                   1.8
4.b. Bond issues and repos                 45,740                  17.9
4.c. Borrowings                            41,231                  16.2
4.d. Other current liabilities             3,323                   1.3
5. Other liabilities                        48,450                  19.0
6. Total liabilities                        226,134                 88.6
7. Net worth                                29,093                  11.4
Memo: Provisions as share of total loans                            8.4%
Source: Banco Central do Brasil
8.    Brazilian private banks rely nearly as much on securities investment as oin
loans for interest rate revenue. On the interest cost side, the high costs due tc
repurchase agreements is surprising. While loan loss provisioning seems relatively low.
Brazilian banks are already well provisioned (see above).
56



9.   Brazil's private banks have high profit levels. The return to equity was over
20% in 1999. While this was an extraordinarily profitable year for Brazilian banks,
among other things, due to windfall gains from the devaluation of the Real, profit levels
have been high for several years. The average return on equity over the last three years
was nearly 15%, compared to 5% in Mexico and Argentina. This is even more
remarkable given the low leverage of Brazilian banks.
10.   Brazilian banks are still inefficient in international and Latin American
comparison. Overhead costs constitute nearly 9% of assets, well above other Latin
American countries. Surprisingly, large banks and foreign banks present higher overhead
costs than average. While Brazil is under-banked, deposits per branch are lower than in
Mexico and Argentina. There is evidence (Garcia-Cantera et al. 2001) that operating
costs in the Brazilian banking system may even have increased in the past months,
despite the very favorable environment of lower interest rates, non-inflationary growth,
and lower unremunerated reserve requirements. This suggests that competitive forces,
while clearly on the rise with financial globalization and the entry of foreign banks, are
still insufficient to exert significant pressure on banks to take tough actions to reduce
costs. The presence of very large public sector banks in Brazil is an important hindrance
to creating a more level competitive playing field.
Table 7: Brazilian private banks: Income statement
Variable                     1999, US$       Percentage of
million           assets
1. Interest income                       70,405           27.6
Loans and Leases                      36,276            14.2
Investmnents                          25,991            10.2
2. Interest expense                      49,440            19.4
Deposits                               22,870            9.0
Repurchase agreements                  20,471            8.0
3. Interest margin before provisions     20,965            8.2
4. Loan-loss provisions                  3,958             1.6
5. Interest Margin after Provisions       17,008           6.7
6. Other Net Operating Income            14,111            5.5
7. Tax expenses                          1,628             0.6
8. Operating costs                       22,080            8.7
9. Net Operating Income                  7,410             2.9
10. Net Non-Operating Income             26                0.01
11. Net income before taxes              7,436             2.9
12. Income taxes                         941               0.4
57



13. Profit sharing                            444                0.2
14. Net income after taxes                    6,051              2.4
Memo: Return on equity                                           20.8
Source: Banco Central do Brasil
Table 8: Structure and performance indicators for different groups of private banks
12 largest private bank     100 smallest private
banks
Market share in banking sector  41.2                       4.6
Net worth-asset ratio          11.0                        17.8
Return on equity               16.8                        26.1
Return on assets               1.8                         4.6
Net interest margin/assets     6.5                         9.3
Overhead costs/assets          9.9                         6.6
Loans/assets                   40.9                        35.9
Source: calculations based on data from Banco Central do Brasil
Table 9: Private banks in Brazil, Mexico and Argentina
Brazil             Argentina              Mexico
Loans/Total assets   39.22                50.1                 67.7
Return on assets    1.5                   0.6                  0.27
Return on equity    14.7                  5.3                  5.21
Deposits/branches   9.7                   18.2                 14.6
(million US$)
Non-performing      4.3                   7.5                  8.9
loans
Net worth/assets    11.4                  11.5                 7.96
Source: Banco Central do Brasil and World Bank staff estimates
11.   The federal and state banks are less capitalized and less profitable than
private banks. Federal banks are significantly less capitalized than private banks. In
spite of high leverage and due to a low return on assets, they present a lower return on
equity. Their net interest margin is significantly lower than for private banks, mainly due
to subsidized credit. Compared to private banks, the federal banks have a higher loan
share in total assets. The state banks as group made a loss in 1999 and are highly
inefficient, compared to both federal and private banks.
58



Table 10: Structure and performance indicators for different groups of
deposit taking banks
Private       Foreign banks   Federal banks        State banks
domestic banks
Market share in      32.2              28.5              35.0              4.3
banking sector
Net worth-asset      11.9              10.9              4.9               7.7
ratio
Return on equity    21.8               19.5              11.0             -12.4
Return on assets    2.6               2.1               0.5               -1.0
Net interest         4.9               8.6               2.6               7.4
margin/assets
Overhead            7.9                9.5              8.1                12.3
costs/assets
Loans/assets        41.0               37.2              53.6              25.7
Source: calculations based on data from Banco Central do Brasil
12.   Lending to the private sector has gained in importance over the last 6 years
(Table 11). Most notably, consumer loans have increased significantly; while in 1994
they constituted 8% of total lending, they constituted 15% in 1999. Brazil has still a
system of directed credit - 65% of the average balance of saving deposits has to be
allocated to housing finance and 25% of demand deposits to rural credit. This decreases
the efficiency of credit allocation significantly and adds to the cost of non-directed credit.
Table 11: Private Credit to GDP
1994      1995      1996      1997      1998    1999
PrivateCredittoGDP   31.5         32.5      30.5      29.7      33.1      35.4
Source: Beck, Demirguc-Kunt and Levine (2000)
13.   Brazil exhibits one of the highest interest rate spreads in the world; both
measured on the ex-ante as on the ex-post basis. As of August 2000, average spreads
(measured ex-ante) were about 33 percentage points, with spreads for corporate lending
at 18 percentage point and for consumer lending at 55.3 While loan interest rates and
thus spreads have come down recently, they remain high and well above the Latin
American average and continue to pose an important impediment to the development of
the financial sector and thus to economic development.
3 Net interest margins can be measured in different ways, either ex-ante, by considering quoted interest
rates for new loans and deposits, or ex-post, by focusing on the difference between actual interest revenue
and interest cost, calculated from banks' income statements.
59



Table 12: The interest rate spread in Brazil and its components
April 99    October 99    April 00   August 00
Total annual spread    54.83%      45.26%      34.33%       32.77%
Bank margin           18.47%       17.76%       13.93%      11.93%
Direct taxes          9.16%        10.46%       8.13%       6.99%
Indirect taxes        8.13%        3.29%7      2.90%        2.88%
Operating costs       6.95%        7.73%       6.34%        6.31%
Charge-offs           12.12%       6.02%       3.03%        4.66%
Source: Salomon Smith Baney.
14.  Cross-country comparisons of net interest margins have identified banks'
overhead costs, inflation and high real interest rates, reserve requirements, taxation
and a poor legal and institutional environment as main determinants of high
interest spreads. Overhead costs at Brazil banks are significantly higher than in other
comparable upper-middle income countries. While inflation has come down over the last
six years, interest rates have not decreased yet, reflecting the perception of high risk that
still remains and an inertia effect. As confidence in the newly acquired monetary stability
gets rooted, interest rate and thus margins will start coming down further. While reserv -
requirements have come down recently, directed credit at below-market rates adds to thc
interest costs on non-directed credit. Finally, high taxation (both direct and indirect
taxes) and a weak and inefficient judicial system add to interest rate spreads.
15. Since 1999, the Central Bank has introduced certain measures that have had a
negative impact on spreads. (1) A decrease in reserve requirements on sight deposits to)
45% and on time deposits to 0%; (2) stricter classification and provisioning requirement<,
(3) reduction in the IOF tax from 6% to 1.5% for individuals (same rate as for
corporations); (4) efforts to increase competitiveness between banks by publishing
interest rates on the Central Bank's web site; (5) a new regulation that facilitates th;,
development of securitized debt markets; (6) an extension of the coverage of the Central
de Risco; and (7) improvements in the legal system to allow easier collateral repossessio:n
(cedula de credito bancario).
16.   While these measures have had a certain effect, a long way remains to
acceptable spreads. Especially the part of the interest spreads that is due to ban:
margins, indirect taxes and charge-offs has decreased significantly over the last two
years. Direct taxes and especially operating costs resulting from low efficiency and low
competitive pressure, however, are still at very high levels. Finally, the high level cf
interest rates might explain the continuously high spreads. A long-term experience with
monetary stability and efficiency gains through more competition can thus help bring
down interest rates and spreads. Further improvements in the credit reporting system, ta(
reforms, legal reforms in the areas of creditor rights and bankruptcy procedures can also
contribute to a sustainable decrease in interest rate spreads.
III. Future challenges and vulnerabilities
17.   Brazil is under-banked. An estimated 30 million Brazilians have bank accounts,
thus less than 20% of the total population. According to the Central Bank, nearly 30% of
60



all rnunicipalities have no bank branch. There are seven states (out of 27), mostly in the
North, where the share of municipalities with no bank branch is even over 70%. While
there are around 1,200 credit cooperatives with around 1 million members, they reach
only a small part of the population with no access to formal banking. However, given the
extreme income inequality in Brazil, large parts of the population might not be bankable
from the viewpoint of traditional banking. The limited access to formal banking
constitutes a future challenge for the system.
18. Brazilian banks still lend mostly short-term. There is no meaningful private
market for long-term debt in Brazil. Aside from the long-term (subsidized) credit granted
by the government's main development bank (BNDES), saving and borrowing contracts
are of very short duration. This is the inheritance of prior decades of high and highly
volatile inflation, exchange, and interest rates. Anecdotal evidence suggests that most
small and medium size companies only obtain short-term bank credit with maturities of at
most 90 days. However, a gradual lengthening of maturities is beginning to take place in
response to the record of macroeconomic stability built over the past 6 years. While the
short maturity of credit decreases the direct liquidity risk for the banking sector, it
increases the risk of a liquidity squeeze in the corporate sector in the case of an external
shock. The experience of medium-sized enterprises in the aftermath of the international
crises of 1997 and 1998 underlines the importance of this vulnerability.
19.   Federal banks remain an issue to be addressed. While the Central Bank used
the PROES successfully to address the problem of the state banks, the future of the five
federal banks remains a politically sensitive issue. Banco do Brasil and Caixa are the
largest two financial institutions in Brazil, and in Latin America, with combined assets of
about US$145 billion and mandates for first-tier financing of agriculture and housing,
respectively. BNDES is the country's (second-tier) development bank charged with
providing long-term funds (at somewhat subsidized rates) for productive purposes and
with assisting the privatization of public enterprises.  Banco do Nordeste and da
Amazonia are regional development banks. Caixa Economica Federal is suffering from a
large portfolio of non-performing mortgage loans, while Banco do Brasil is suffering
from a non-performing portfolio in rural credits. Cumulative recapitalizations with
taxpayer's money during the last five years for the two giant federal banks are estimated
at US$5 billion. Recently, the Central Bank extended the Global Consolidated Inspection
program to Banco do Brasil and Caixa, completed a full-fledged cycle of rigorous on-site
examinations, and will be discussing recapitalization needs and other corrective
measures-in the same manner it does in the case of private banks-with these banks'
shareholder-the federal government.
20.   While Brazilian bank had very high profits 1999 and 2000, profits will likely
decrease. First, with the abandoning of the fixed exchange rate, banks can no longer
count on windfall gains from exchange rate movements, as it happened with the January
1999 devaluation. Second, decreasing interest rates and the entrance of foreign banks put
pressure on private banks to become more efficient. While the new regulations might
lead to a decrease in the number of small banks, the consolidation in the medium and
large bank sector is also expected to continue as these banks search to exploit scale
economies. Third, if the governnent succeeds in decreasing their financing needs and the
yield on government papers falls, banks have to search for alternative revenue sources.
61



21. Recently the Central Bank has toughened prudential regulations, which could
lead to further consolidation, since small banks are disproportionally affected by
them. The recent increase in minimum required capital will force several small banks lo
either merge or liquidate. While they are very well capitalized, they face problems of
scale. The new loan classification rules with stricter provisioning requirements affect
large banks less, since they have already followed stricter norms than the Central Bank
required. The decreasing reserve requirements on demand deposits also favor larger
banks since a larger share of their liabilities are in the form of demand deposits, due -,o
extensive branching network. Other regulatory changes, such as a lower ratio of nor.-
banking investments to equity and a higher risk weight for tax credits do not favor a
specific size class of banks. In general, the new regulation will lead to more transparency
in the banking sector, especially on the asset quality and therefore allow a more caref.l
distinction between banks in different risk classes.
22. The recent rapid credit growth constitutes a potential source of vulnerability
for the financial system. Credit growth rates have been very volatile over the last 6
years, contributing to both economic and financial volatility. Credit growth has been
excessive since January 2000, although from a very low base. While corporate credit hE.s
been growing at an annualized rate of 35%, consumer credit growth has reached 130°,,.
The relatively stronger growth in consumer credit also increases credit risk for banks,
given the more risky nature of this component of the loan portfolio.
23. The risk of systemic instability seems to be relatively low for the Braziliain
banking sector. First, after the restructuring of the mid 1990s, the private and foreign
banks are today well capitalized and highly liquid. Second, the dominant position of the
federal banks and the implicit federal government's guarantee for their deposits, reduce
significantly the risk of bank runs and thus of banking instability. Third, the current
flexible exchange rate system reduces the risk of exchange rate misalignment and thLs
the risk of large losses (and profits) of both financial and corporate sectors related tO
exchange rate movements. For these reasons the banking sector seems in a relatively
good position to absorb a certain degree of external volatility. However, there are limii s
to this resiliency; large shocks might still have a large negative impact on financial
system stability. The recent credit surge and the resulting higher leverage exposes the
non-financial private sector to a larger degree of interest rate risk, which in turn implies a
larger credit risk for the banking sector.
62



Annex 5: Deposit Insurance and Bank Failure Resolution
Recent Developments and Issues
A.   D)escription
I.   The Brazilian deposit insurance scheme - Fundo Garantidor de Creditos (FGC) - reflects,
in many respects, what may be considered "better" international practices and has contributed
significantly to banking sector stability in Brazil over the last couple of years. However, its
current structure leaves room for improvements, especially in its disciplinary role vis-a-vis
banks, its financing and its role in bank failure resolution. This notes discusses the current
structure of FGC and makes recommendations for possible reforms.
2.   1History: In the five years of its existence, FGC had to reimburse insured deposits of 20
failed banks, including one large bank (Bamerindus) and one public bank (Banco Estado
Amapa). Except for Bamerindus, all the failures were well within FGC's financial resources.
Total losses of R$ 3.6 billion were incurred, including R$ 3.1 billion for the Bamerindus failure.2
Only R$ 8.3 million or 0.2 percent of these payments has been recovered through the liquidation
process so far. This is equivalent to a yearly loss rate of R$ 718 million (R$103 million not
taking into account Bamerindus).
3.    Current financial situation: According to the latest audited financial statements (June
2000), FGC has a negative net worth of R$ 1.2 billion.3 As total liquid assets amount to R$ 1.1
billion, the negative net worth is mainly due to a large debt incurred in connection with the
Bamerindus failure in 1996.4 FGC's gross income is, at present, around R$ 900 million per year
(0.7 percent of GDP), about 60 percent of which is used to service the mentioned Bamerindus
debt.
B.   'rechnical Issues
4.    Coverage limit: The deposit insurance coverage limit of R$ 20,000 is around three times
per capita GDP-about average in international comparison. Compared to other upper-middle
' This note was prepared by Thorsten Beck (Development Research Group). Useful comments were received from
Stefan Alber, Augusto de la Torre, Asli Demirguc-Kunt, Patrick Honohan, Anjali Kumar and others at the World
Bank.
2 The liabilities from the failure of Barmerindus stem from a loan from the Central Bank to the "bad" bank, created in
the resolution of Bamerindus, that was later restructured into an FGC liability to the bad bank. In October 1998, the
FGC and Central Bank finalized agreement on the service of FGC's debt, which by then had risen to R$ 3.65 billion
due to capitalized interest. Under this agreement, FGC paid off R$ 1.75 billion immediately, reducing the debt
outstanding to R$ 1.9 billion, the monthly servicing of which began in December 2000 (with interest having been
capitalized until then) and is scheduled to finish in November 2004. The interest rate applied is around 2 percent,
well below market rates. To help finance the down payment in 1998, the FGC requested its member banks to
voluntarily advance 24 months of premiums. 19 banks responded favorably for a total advance of R$ I billion.
3 The present value of the FGC's uncertain future stream of premium-based income and of even more uncertain
stream of insurance losses is, of course, not included in audited financial statements.
4 When FGC was established in 1995, the Central Bank also decided to transfer to it the funds of the then existing
Deposit and Mortgage Bond Guarantee Fund (FGDLI), which would imply additional resources of roughly R$ I
billion for FGC. This transfer, however, has been suspended due to allegations of inconstitutionality brought about
by an opposition party in a lawsuit that is currently pending at the Brazilian Supreme Court.
63



income countries in Latin America, however, it is rather on the lower end (Table 1). Avail ible
data indicate that the limit of R$ 20,000 would completely cover some 98 percent of all accoints
and about 43 percent of total deposits.5 Table 2 displays the effects of a change in the coverage
limit, given the current distribution of deposits. It shows that a change in the coverage I mit
would lead to relatively large changes in the proportion of deposits covered but only to relativiely
small changes in the number of depositors completely covered.
The Current Structure of FGC
The Brazilian deposit insurance scheme-Fundo Garantidor de Creditos-was established in August 194)5
by Resolution 2197 of the National Monetary Council, as response to the banking crisis in the mid-1990s. After
approval of its statutes by the National Monetary Council (Resolution 2211), it started operations in November
1995. Its purpose is to promote public confidence in the banking system and protect the savings of small deposi ors.
FGC is a non-governmental, non-profit, tax-exempt, industry-based organization. However, because of its relation
with the National Monetary Council, it is subject to public policy guidance.
Membership is compulsory and includes all financial institutions, both private and public, that collect
deposits except the credit cooperatives that have their own solidarity-based guarantee scheme. The deposit insurance
covers all deposits (sight, term, and passbook savings), bills of exchange, real estate financing notes, and mortgage
notes. Not covered are inter-bank, non-resident and insider deposits. The coverage limit is R$ 20,000 per depositor
and bank and there is no co-insurance. This coverage has been constant in nominal terms since 1995. In terms c f
dollars, however, it has fallen due to devaluation from about USD 20,000 to about 10,000 over the last six years
Article 192 of the Constitution explicitly prohibits the use of public funds to protect depositors. FGC's
funding comes mainly from premium payments by members. All member banks pay a flat monthly premium of
0.025 percent of total deposits covered-i.e., an annual premium of 0.3 percent. If the liquid assets of the Fund are
not sufficient to cover insurance obligations in the case of a bank failure, the FGC Board can approve a surcharg;. of
up to 50 percent of the regular premium and/or the advance payment of 12 months' worth of premiums. Accord ng
to its statutes, once liquid assets of the Fund reach 5 percent of all covered deposits, the National Monetary Cour cil
can decide to suspend or reduce temporarily the premiums.6 The investment of FGC's resources is relatively
unrestricted, with the statutes only prohibiting investments in equity and real estate. Currently, arrangements have
been made for Banco do Brasil to invest FGC liquid assets in government bonds. As a result, the FGC holds a
Certificate of Deposit (CD) of Banco do Brasil for the amount of its liquid, investible resources. The CD, which is
backed by government bonds, pays the interbank interest rate (CDI), adjustable monthly, with Banco do Brasil
retaining the spread between CDI and the government bond yield.7
The organizational structure of FGC consists mainly of management, a general assembly that meets once per
year, and a Board of Directors. In the general assembly each bank has one vote; and decisions are taken with a two
third majority of all present banks, or at least 50 percent of all member banks. However, all changes in the statutes
have to be approved by the National Monetary Council. The Board of Directors has five members that are elected
by the general assembly of the National Confederation of Financial Institutions, which consists of all financial
institutions of Brazil. The Board of Directors decides, inter alia, over any surcharges (see above), the investment
strategy of the Fund, and the appointment of FGC management. FGC staff currently consists of less than five ful.-
time professional employees.
5The term total deposits refers to total cover deposits, i.e. excluding inter-bank, non resident and insider deposit<.
6 FGC's Statutes make reference to the net worth of the Fund. It would be technically more adequate to refer to
liquid assets.
' This arrangement would likely be renegotiated if the interest rate paid by government bonds were to fall below the
interbank interest rate.
64



Table 1: Deposit Insurance Coverage Limit in
Selected Latin American Countries
Coverage lim it per depositor
In USD*       As multiple of 1999
per capita GDP
Argentina                    30,000                  3.9
Brazil                       10,000                  3.3
El Salvador                   6,300                  3.3
Mexico**                    100,000                 22.7
Peru                         19,000                  8.1
* At January 2001 exchange rates.
**To enter into effect as from January 1, 2005.
Source: Demirguc-Kunt, A. and T. Sobaci, 2000: Deposit Insurance Around the World. A Database,
World Bank mimeo.
Table 2: Sensitivity to Changes in Deposit Insurance Coverage Limit
Coverage limit       Share of deposits     Share of deposit accounts
(R$)                covered                    covered
5,000                  24.70%                      92.50%
10,000                  33.41%                      95.82%
20,000                 42.64%                       97.89%
40,000                  51.47%                       99.04%
Source: own calculations based on data provided by FGC.
5.   Premium base and "effective premium": The coverage limit of R$ 20,000 results in R$
104 billion of deposits insured, as of June 2000, or 43 percent of total deposits. The median
bank in the system has insured deposits of R$ 2.2 million. There is a significant variation in the
ratio of insured to total coverage across banks, ranging from close to zero to 100 percent. A
statistically significant (albeit not very high) positive correlation exists between total deposits
and the share of insured in total deposits-on average, per each additional R$ 1 billion of insured
deposits the ratio of insured to total deposits increases by one percentage point (Graph 1). Since
total deposits are the base for premium calculation, and assuming that the risks of failure are
independent of the size of the bank - an admittedly unrealistic assumption -, this positive
correlation makes premiums regressive. That is, the "effective premium" (premium paid as
percentage of insured deposits) is significantly greater for smaller banks than for larger banks.
While the effective premium is 0.7 percent for the whole banking system, it varies across banks
from 0.3% to 15 times insured deposits.
65



Graph I Total deposits vs. share of insured in total deposits
100,000,000  _-7=            -      .77
10,000,000
1,000,000 l
10                  4     * 00
100,000
,1   10000
1
0.00%    20.00%    4000%      6000%     8000%     10000%    120.00%
Share of insured in total deposits
6.   Financial capacity: At end-2000, FGC had R$ 1.3 billion in liquid assets, or 0.5% per-,ent
of total deposits in the system. With these liquid resources, the FGC could pay out the insured
deposits of the 130 smallest banks (out of a total of 157 banks with insured deposits) or of the
124 smallest private banks. However, it would be unable to cover the failure of one "large" bank
or the simultaneous failure of 4 "medium-large" banks. FGC statutes suggest a "tar3et"
insurance fund equivalent to 5 percent of total deposits (see above), which at present would yield
R$ 12.2 billion. Graph 2 and Table 3 help assess the suitability of the current level of resources
and of the statutory target, for different scenarios of bank failures.
Table 3: Insured deposits for different groups of banks (R$ million)
Number    Range of         Total       Average      Median
of        insured     insured       insured      insured
banks       deposit      deposits    deposits      deposits
Small banks              99          < 4             110            1.1          0.7
Medium banks             27        4 -100            525             19            8
Medium-large banks       15       100 - 600         4,699           313         354
Large banks              12      600 - 11,000     26,200          2,183        1,954
Too-big-to-close         4         > 11,000       72,817         18,204       18,846
Source: own calculations based on data provided by FGC.
66



Table 4: Insured deposits of 4 largest banks ("Too-big-too-close")
Total insured deposits (R$ billion)
Banco do Brasil                                              23.5
Caixa Economica Federal                                      21.4
Bradesco                                                      16.3
Itau                                                          11.6
Source: FGC
Graph 2: Cumulative insured deposits
100,COO,000
10,000,000
-1,00,C00 0
S   100,000 _-
-3, 1,000
100
10
. ;7 - ! * 4, ' - S ' *t ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ *.  ;2
0         20        40         60        80        100       120        140
Private banks sorted by size
7.   The current level of funds (R$ 1.3 billion) appears suitable to deal with the simultaneous
failure of small and medium banks but would not suffice to deal with failures among the larger
banks. To assess the desirable target level of access to liquid resources for the FGC it would
seem appropriate to exclude the 4 largest banks (with median insured deposits of R$ 19 billion,
as they likely fall in the too-big-to-close category (Table 4). Scenarios involving the failure of
banks with sizes below the too-big-to-close category point towards a target level much higher
than the current level of liquid resources. But they also suggest that a target of 5 percent of total
deposits would be excessively high. The last column in Table 3 allows to consider different
scenarios to assess the level of financial resources FGC needs. For instance, the FGC would at
present need to raise its access to liquid resources by R$2.9 billion to around R$ 4.2 billion, or
less than 2 percent of total covered deposits, in order to deal adequately with the simultaneous
closure of 12 "medium-large" banks or of 2 "large" banks. Such a scenario would come close to
a systemic crisis. This level of access to liquid resources seems more adequate than the current
target of 5%.
8.   Financial projections: It is difficult to project the future liabilities of FGC with actuarial
methods, since bank failures, especially medium- and large-size bank failures are not normally
distributed and constitute low-probability, large-loss events.  Such projections are further
complicated considering that bank failures tend to happen simultaneously due to contagion
67



effects and the positive correlation between banking system fragility and individual bank failure.
Financial projections based on historical experience offer therefore limited guidance. The
projections in Graph 3 are based on historical experience and plot alternative paths of FGC liq aid
resources (as a ratio to total deposits in the system) under different but constant loss rates per
year.8 They should therefore be taken with care. However, they do illustrate well the fact that
the rate of accumulation of FGC resources would significantly increase after end-2004, once the
FGC debt to the Central Bank is fully paid. They also illustrate the difficulties that would arise
should the annual loss rate increase to 0.25 percent, a level consistent with historical experience
(including the failure of Bamerindus).
Graph 3: Financial projections for FGC under different loss rate scenarlos
003
|0.025
0.02
C.   Policy Issues~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--1s-rt=005
9.  Ti  eto   eiestekyplcyise  htte uhrte   ol haveos rtoade=0.                          unde
41*            ~~~~~~~~loss-rate=0.025
l oss-rate=0.25%
0.01                                                             A 
I~~~~M                                                       M
C.   Policy Issues
9.   This section reviews the key policy issues that the authorities would have to address undler
their recently initiated work program to revisit the legislation governing bank resolution and the
statutes of the deposit insurance. The discussion below is preliminary and clearly suggests the
need for focused studies to inform the ongoing debate and to underpin the policy changes and
legal reforms that would be proposed at the end of the work program. It would be a productive
and collaborative study agenda for the Central Bank and FGC.
10. The Brazilian deposit insurance scheme reflects, in many respects, what may be considered
"better" international practices. It has limited coverage in amount and scope. It is a non-public
agency, funded by premiums assessed on the banking industry and managed and directed 6y
s An annual loss rate of 0.025 percent is close to that used by the FGC in its own financial projections; a loss rate of
0.05 percent is close to the historical average without Bamerindus; and a loss rate of 0.25 percent is close to the
historical average with Bamerindus. The projections in Graph 3 assume a deposit growth rate of 12 percent per year,
a return on FGC's liquid assets of 14 percent per annum, and a constant premium rate of 0.3 percent on total
deposits throughout the projection period.
68



representatives elected by the industry. It has compulsory membership. Moreover, it has
successfully generated confidence in its ability to pay out depositors of failed banks quickly,
hence enhancing the authorities' willingness not to delay the closure of nonviable banks.
However, there is room for improvement in several respects. Major improvements can be made
in (i) the complementary role of FGC in monitoring and disciplining member banks - without
duplicating the Central Bank's work -, with implications for the premium structure and the
membership of public banks; (ii) replacing accumulation of liquid resources with contingent
access to financing; and (iii) the role of FGC in an improved bank failure resolution framework.
These reforms would strengthen FGC as an industry-based private scheme and better integrate it
into the overall financial safety net. It would also reinforce the market and incentive-based
elements in the safety net.
11. Monitoring and disciplining. Although FGC is a non-public scheme, it is currently not able
to use the benefits of this feature. Private funding and management of the FGC not only limits
moral hazard and helps avoid regulatory and political capture, it also gives the member banks
incentives to monitor each other carefully to protect the integrity of the deposit insurance funds.
However, FGC does currently not have the capacity to monitor and discipline riskier banks. The
scope for a monitoring role for the FGC should therefore be examined, as long as this role is
complementary-rather than interfering or duplicative-to official supervision and market
monitoring. Given human resource shortages and considerations of regulatory burden, there is no
strong case for the FGC to engage in supervisory tasks that might duplicate those exercised by
the Central Bank. But alternatives for FGC complementary monitoring should be explored.
These alternatives could include: (i) risk based premiums (see below); (ii) allowing FGC to
provide non-binding recommendations on key events in banking such as bank licensing; (iii)
empowering FGC to order (via subcontracting) extraordinary audits of banks it perceives to be
unsound; and (iv) giving the FGC Board the power to exclude members that are recklessly
managed. While the latter would likely be a threat that may never be used, it could have a
deterrence effect and could improve market discipline. These measures-which would require
changes to FGC statutes and the law, as well as institutional capacity development-would
strengthen the character of the deposit insurance as a club with a joint objective (minimizing
costs through banking stability). They would also help minimize risk for the deposit insurance
funds during the restructuring and consolidation in the Brazilian banking sector that is expected
during the next couple of years. The membership of public banks in FGC would have to be
assessed also in this connection, as the presence of public banks might undermine FGC's
suggested enhancement of monitoring and disciplining powers.
12.  Changes in the premium structure: The statutes of the FGC should be changed to enable
the eventual introduction of risk-based premiums. These offer several advantages over flat
premiums. They contribute to better risk pricing by banks and help avoid under-pricing the
deposit insurance. They raise awareness about the variation in the risks banks are taking. And
they strengthen incentives for member banks to monitor each other more carefully. However,
the calculation and application of risk-based premiums poses practical problems. If based on the
regulators' judgement and disclosed to the market, risk-based premiums can compromise
supervisory independence and might even give rise to legal problems for the supervisory agency
if a highly rated bank fails. Using market prices to measure risk requires the existence of deep
markets for bank stock or for bank uninsured liabilities, or very capable rating agencies. Using
formula based approaches has advantages-forrnulas are objective and non-discretional, they can
be easily disclosed and understood by the market-but also significant limitations-accuracy in
69



ratings cannot be guaranteed by mechanic application of numeric ratios9 and the choice of
quantitative indicators and weights always has elements of arbitrariness.  The impact of
introducing risk-based premiums on different groups of banks has also to be considered. For
instance, if small banks result to be riskier, this has implications for their competitiveness ,nd
thus the market structure. Finally, the issue of whether and when to disclose risk ratings is
important in terms of maintaining confidence in the banking system. These practical problerms
notwithstanding, FGC should have the statutory power to implement risk-based premiums at a
future stage.
13. Membership of public banks in FGC: In the long run, the membership of public banks in
FGC should be assessed. Currently both public and private banks are members of FGC. On he
one hand, public banks are perceived as already enjoying the full backing of its owner-he
government. As a result, and as long as the government's solvency is not in doubt, he
depositors and other creditors tend to behave as if their claims on public banks do not fa.ce
default risk. There is, thus, no obvious need for a deposit insurance to help prevent runs on
public banks. On the other hand, in the case of Brazil, the membership of public banks in F(iC
does not seem to engender serious risks of political interference and abuse of the depc sit
insurance funds. This is mainly due to the non-governmental nature of FGC and its governarce
structure. It is also due to a special feature of the Brazilian law (Law 9447), which makes ihe
controlling shareholders of a bank liable for losses beyond their paid-in capital. While there are
practical limits to the application of this rule in the case of failed private banks, the government
will normally be in the financial position to honor its commitment as shareholder and will
therefore have to reimburse FGC for losses incurred in the liquidation of a public banks.'0
Moreover, short-run financial considerations would argue in favor of keeping the membership of
public banks in FGC-their premium payments constitute over 60 percent of total premium
revenue of FGC. However, in the longer term, a discussion about the membership of the public
banks in FGC appears desirable, especially if FGC takes on new responsibilities in the
monitoring of its members. Since the incentive structure of private and public bank management
and owners is different, this could undermine any new responsibility that FGC would assume.
On the other hand, one could consider the possibility to restrict this monitoring initially to private
banks. Finally, a future discussion about the ownership structure of the federal banks might make
a discussion about their membership irrelevant.
14.  Liquid asset accumulation versus contingent access to liquid resources: The possibility of
contingent access to liquid resources, as an altemative to the current accumulation of liqt id
assets, should be explored. Lessons from international experience suggest that accumulating a
large fund of liquid assets by a deposit insurance scheme carries risks if the institutioral
environment is weak.  In the case of Brazil, the institutional and governance structures
underpinning the banking system safety net appear sound-with the nonpublic nature of tlIe
deposit insurance significantly shielding the premium-based fund from the risk of abuse for
unwarranted bailouts. Nonetheless, the accumulation of large liquid fund carries other risks anld
problems. The fund could become subject to political pressure to be invested inappropriately.
Domestic investment of the fund may result in a positive correlation between the risk FGC is
insuring against and the risk of its asset. Finally, liquid asset accumulation is not efficient
9 Furthermore, bank specific, CAMEL-type indicators alone would be insufficient. Any rating should also take into
account macroeconomic and sectoral indicators.
'° In effect, the government did fully reimburse FGC in the only case of a failed public bank, Banco Estado Amapci.
70



compared to access to contingent financing. While international experience with contingent
access tc) liquid resources is limited, these options should be explored. Other alternatives, such
as reinsurance on the international market, should also be studied.
15. A case can be made not to accumulate liquid assets beyond the current level (0.5 percent of
total covered deposits), if FGC can secure access to contingent lines of credit, and if the sum of
liquid assets plus the amount of access to contingent lines reaches a given "target" level. As
discussed earlier, there are strong technical reasons to reset the target level, as the current target
of 5 percent of total deposits appears unduly high, given the distribution of insured deposits in
the system. Reaching a redefined target via access to contingent finance would allow greater
flexibility in the premium policy. In particular, it would permit lowering the premium to a level
that allows FGC to maintain the current ratio of liquid assets to total deposits while at the same
time repaying its liability to the Central Bank. Alternatively, once the target is achieved, the
FGC could begin to remunerate the premium payments, thus turning these premiums effectively
into forced savings and enhancing the perception of "ownership" of the deposit insurance fund
by its members.
16.  The possible sources for the contingent access to liquid resources have to be carefully
examined. Domestic sources could be accessed at an appropriate cost, but within limits, not the
least because the availability of resources domestically may be adversely affected in
circumstances that lead to bank failures. Accessing foreign contingent financing offers the
advantage that the risk of being able to access the finance is less correlated with the risk FGC is
insuring against. However, access to foreign contingent financing depends on the credit
worthiness of FGC, which is not independent of its institutional and governance structure. A
predictable income stream in the form of premium payment paid by banks, offers excellent
collateral for the contingent financing. Maintaining the current status as non-public entity and
ensuring transparency and good governance appears key to protecting FGC's creditworthiness.
17. Role of FGC in bank failure resolution: The potential role of FGC in bank failure
resolution should be reassessed. This issue is currently under study in the Central Bank, the
banking sector, and FGC, as part of an overall review of the bank failure resolution process.
This review was motivated by the disappointing performance and inherent problems with the
Central Bank's leading role in extra-judicial liquidation, a system that operates in Brazil since
1974. A reform of the bank resolution framework should aim at a system that can achieve the
closure of an insolvent bank in a swift manner, preferably over a weekend, as it is the case in the
U.S. and Argentina. This, however, also implies a redefinition of the role of FGC. Three areas
are being examined by the authorities in this regard.
18.  First, the legal, institutional, and legal changes that might be required to introduce more
efficient resolution techniques for closed banks, e.g. purchase and assumptions, aided by a
contribution from the FCG, with the amount of such contribution subject to some form of "less
cost" criteria.'1 These bank resolution techniques could significantly improve the preservation of
asset value (as they would be managed by private banks or professional asset managers in the
private sector) and could reduce the contagion risk of a bank closure (as deposits would be
transferred swiftly to other banks in the system), without raising moral hazard. Legal reforms
" A "less cost" criteria would establish that the resolution technique chosen for a closed bank should not represent a
cost to FGC higher than the cost it would have incurred under traditional liquidation.
71



would be needed, however, not the least to shield the purchase and assumption operation (i.e.,
the transfer of deposits and assets from the failed bank to other banks in the system) against
lawsuits and to provide firm legal ground to the possibility of leaving behind certain liabilities
(i.e., of not including such liabilities in the purchase and assumption operation). Purchase and
assumption-type techniques would have the added advantage of minimizing the size of the
"residual" balance sheet that goes to liquidation.
19.  Second, the pros and cons of the FGC acting as liquidator, instead of the Central Bani: or
the courts.'2 To the extent that FGC stands along with depositors (and not ahead of them) vi ;-a-
vis the liquidation, its incentives would coincide with those of uninsured depositors to maximize
and accelerate asset recovery, making it an effective, motivated liquidator. However, it wc uld
then be desirable to consider greater flexibility in liquidation rules, e.g. qualified creditor
majority for a settlement, powers to liquidate assets at market prices, etc. Possibly also, the F GC
would have to be granted certain "strong" powers similar to those enjoyed by the US FDIC (ce.g.,
the power administratively to undo burdensome contracts, with compensation to the contracling
party) in order to streamline the liquidation process. The experience in Latin America, however,
with judicial or extra-judicial liquidation, has not been encouraging.
20.  Third, the possibility of allowing FGC to provide open-bank assistance, i.e., to act as a
creditor or a shareholder of troubled (open) banks, which would imply that FGC would take over
management or even ownership of troubled banks.  Experience in several Latin Americvan
countries has shown that this type of open-bank assistance involves high costs, political
interference, and major difficulties in unwinding the deposit insurance scheme's entanglement
with having to run sick banks. Open-bank assistance of this type might, under extraordinary
circumstances, be suitable to cases of large banks that might be too big to close. In those evenlts,
however, it would seem better not to entangle the deposit insurance and its funds. Involving
FGC in open-bank assistance would clearly undermine its non-governmental nature-which. as
explained before, is an asset. It would therefore be preferable to ensure by statute that (i) opem-
bank resolution only would apply to systemic or too-big-to-close cases under very tight protocols
of approval at the highest levels of government; (ii) the costs of any open-bank assistance wo ild
be covered with public debt and fiscal resources exclusively, without any resort to the deposit
insurance fund; and (iii) that any use of public debt or fiscal resources in the context of an op;-n-
bank resolution would necessarily be preceded by the write-off of the bank shareholders'
equity. 13
21.  While strengthening the disciplinary powers of FGC, and re-evaluating its financing and its
role in a reformed bank failure resolution framework are major issues that imply policy decisions
and changes in laws and the statutes, some further, but less wide-ranging reforms are proposed
and discussed in the following. We also discuss policy areas where no changes from the stat ls-
quo are warranted.
22. Compulsory Membership: Some market participants have begun discussing the possibility
of creating competing deposit insurance schemes, which would raise the issue of the compulsory
12 There are currently two banks that are under voluntary liquidation (instead of the standard extra-judicial
liquidation) with FGC taking a lead role. These pilots may provide important experience for assessing the role of
FGC in the liquidation process.
13 In other words, open-bank resolution would result in a depositor bailout, by definition, but it should not result also
in a bailout of shareholders.
72



nature of membership in FGC. A movement towards voluntary membership resulting from the
establishment of competing deposit insurance schemes would entail serious adverse selection
problems. That is, weaker or riskier banks would tend to cluster together in a separate group
than that of the stronger banks, undermining the capacity to pool diversified risks. This would
undermine the financial viability of the competing deposit insurance, which weak banks would
join.'4 It is therefore recommended to maintain compulsory membership in FGC.
23.  Investment strategy: While the observed investment of FGC resources (see above) is
adequate for a deposit insurance scheme, the statutory investment guidelines need a tighter
definition. They should explicitly determine that FGC resources could only be invested in liquid
and safe assets. This would bar the possibility of investing FGC resources in, say, deposits in
member banks-a possibility open under the current statutory guidelines. Furthermore, liquidity
and safety should be defined to ensure that the value of assets is preserved even in the midst of
domestic financial turbulence. This would point towards investing FGC resources in the same
way as Brazil's international reserves.
24. Coverage limit: The current deposit insurance coverage limit of R$ 20,000 seems adequate.
There have been several approaches to assess appropriate coverage limits for deposit insurance.
The traditional approach has reflected the social concern with protecting poor and small
depositors. At the same time a class of creditors, such as large depositors, should be created that
have incentives to monitor and thus discipline banks by being excluded from insurance. An
efficient bank failure resolution framework needs to complement this to avoid contagion effects
through bank runs by uninsured depositors. The traditional approach, hence, tends to prescribe a
coverage ceiling equivalent to a low multiple (say, 2-3 times) of the country's GDP per capita. A
different but equally valid approach to assess whether a given deposit insurance limit is
appropriate takes into account the need to facilitate purchase and assumption operations in the
case of bank closures-i.e., closure techniques that minimize contagion risk without increasing
moral hazard. This would require that a large share of depositors and a substantial share of
deposits be insured. Given that the R$ 20,000 limit is equivalent to three times per capita GDP,
it broadly meets the social objective. The current coverage ceiling of R$ 20,000 also meets the
second test, given that 98 percent of all depositors have deposits of less than R$ 20,000 and that,
with this coverage ceiling, 43 percent of the deposits in the system is insured. In short, there is at
present no compelling reason to increase or decrease the coverage limit of R$ 20,000.
25.  Changes in the premium base: A change in the base from total deposit to insured deposit
should be considered. Since 1999, information on deposits by size has become available. These
data do not exactly measure insured deposits-as multiple accounts per depositor are not
reported-but closely approximate them and, hence, could be used to change the base. Such a
change would eliminate the significant distortions of the current system that were discussed
earlier (para 5). However, such a change should be introduced in a revenue-neutral way.
26. Governance: There appears to be some room for improvement in FGC governance
structure. To be sure, since its inception, FGC Board members have been individuals of
considerable prestige and high stature in the Brazilian financial community. This has given
immediate credibility to FGC, with healthy effects on confidence. Even though Board members
14 A complementary but compulsory deposit insurance scheme, on the other hand, as it currently exists for
cooperatives, does not pose problems of adverse selection, since members do not have the possibility of exiting or
changing the scheme, except in the relatively rare case of change in ownership structure.
73



are elected on their individual merits and not because of their relations to individual banks, there
seems to be a growing perception (and irritation) among market participants that the
representation on Board is skewed in favor of large banks. In effect, most members of FGC
Board happen to be either CEOs or Presidents of the Boards of Directors of major banks. S ach
perception is in part fueling the discussion about competing deposit insurance schemes (see
above). The authorities should examine alternatives to improve fairness in representation in the
FGC Board, without endangering the reputation gains achieved so far.
27.  Subordinated debt. Several countries have introduced subordinated debt as additi(: nal
market-based monitoring and disciplining tool to decrease aggressive risk-taking by banks. A
class of debt holders is created that have an incentive to monitor and discipline banks. Wliile
Brazil currently does not have a market for subordinated debt, this possibility should be
explored. Subordinated debt, however, has to be linked to an efficient bank failure resolulion
framework. Specifically, the priority of claims has to be made clear, with holders of subordinated
debt taking losses in the case of bankruptcy, even for public banks. One might also consider
contracts that allow for losses of coupon payments in the case of substantial losses of the bank.
74



Annex 6: Brazil's Capital Markets - Challenges and Reform Agenda
I.    Structure of Brazil's Capital Markets
1.1.   Introduction: Role of Capital Markets in Brazil's Financial System
1.    Although Brazil's capital markets are the  largest in  Latin  America, financial
intermediation to the private sector in Brazil continues to be dominated by banks. The bulk of
debt securities are government bonds, about 40 percent of GDP. Private bonds amount to around
4 percent of GDP. Capitalization of domestic equities is estimated at 40 percent of GDP.
2.    Macro-instability, large fiscal deficits and volatile exchange rate movements have
reduced the attractiveness of equities, compared to returns available on government bonds, bank
deposits and foreign assets. Real rates of return on equities over the last five years have
averaged 7.65 percent, compared to more than 20 percent on government bonds and around 12
percent on bank deposits. Dividend yields have been low, and capital gains have been volatile.
The large supply of government bonds has crowded out equity investments. Recent trends in
achieving macro stability must be sustained, if equity investments are to become a more
attractive asset class.
Table 1: Returns - Bank Deposits and Equities Markets
1995     1996  1997  1998  1999   Average
Rates of return, percent per annum, adjusted for inflation (CPI)
Bank deposits (%)                      -13.76    10.69  17.42  24.80 21.16   12.06
Equity market (BOVESPA, %)             -74.47    27.96  27.24  -37.08 156.47  7.65
Source: CVM and the Central Bank of Brazil
1.2    Securities: Equities and Debt
3.    Brazil's equities markets are deeper and more liquid than other Latin American
neighbors, but liquidity is considerably lower than in comparable emerging markets in East Asia,
and markets are relatively inactive. Total traded value in 1999 at over US$11 billion, was much
greater than in Argentina or Chile (with less than half a billion each), or Mexico ($3.4 billion),
but trailed considerably behind Korea ($81 billion) or Taiwan ($93 billion). The "public float" is
a small fraction of total market capitalization. Turnover ratios similarly show that although a
regional giant, Brazil's stock markets are not in the same league as Asia's major emerging
markets. At the end of 1999, Brazil's stock market had a turnover ratio' of 5.3, compared to less
than one in Argentina and Chile, less than 3 in Mexico, but over 25 in Taiwan and Korea. Market
capitalization and trading are both concentrated in a handful of large companies. In 1999, the top
15 firms accounted for 68 percent of total market capitalization and 67 percent of turnover.
Trading was even more concentrated earlier in the decade; in 1996, trading in Telebras alone
represented 65 percent of all trading.
'The turnover ratio defined as the ratio of the year's trading value divided by year-end market capitalization.
75



Table 2: Ratio of Equity Market Capitalization to GDP
1994          1998         1999
Brazil                    34.6          20.7          30.0
Mexico                    31.0          23.3          32.4
Argentina                 13.1          15.2          29.8
Chile                    137.2          66.5          96.0
Taiwan, China      102.6         100.4         130.3
Korea              50.4          37.0          75.8
Indonesia          26.7          25.0          45.5
Turkey             16.5           17.1         59.8
Source: IFC, IMF
4.      Reflecting the low  level of overall financial intermediation and limited use of capilal
markets, firm financing patterns in Brazil show an emphasis on internal financing for investment.
To the extent external financing is used, it has mostly come from banks. The contribution Df
capital markets, which had edged up in the mid-90s, declined again towards the end of tie
decade with the market turmoil of early 1999. More than half of all listed firms (51 %) in Brazil
are ultimately controlled by individuals. Foreigners are the next most important ultimate owners
(14.7% of voting rights), followed by domestic financial institutions (banks, pension funds, and
insurance companies). However the share of banks plus all institutional investors taken together
is low - less than ten percent.
Table 3: Financing Patterns for Listed Firms
1994         1995          1996       1997         1998
Internal financing                        67.8%        69.1%         69.1%       70.6%        72.3%
Banks                                     18.4%         17.7%        20.8%       10.8%        13.5%
Capital markets                            8.4%        15.2%         12.3%       15.0%         3.7%
Trade Financing                            5.4%         -2.0%         -2.2%       3.7%        10.6%
Total External Financing                  32.2%        3 0.9%/        30.9%      29.4%        27.7%
Source: Worldscope database for 156 to 170 non-financial publicly listed corporations.
5.      Although portfolio flows are not large today in terms of total foreign capital inflows in
Brazil, they play a significant role in Brazil's capital markets.2 Table 4 shows that such investcrs
accounted for over 23%  of Brazilian market capitalization by end-1999, and represent a mu,h
higher level of the real public float and trading volume. However, foreign investors are
increasingly shifting the form of their participation in Brazilian companies from local holdings to
ADR programs overseas.3 One of eight Brazilian companies and practically all the major
companies of the BOVESPA index have an ADR in New York. The total value of shares held
through ADRs outside Brazil was some US$27.58 billion at end-1999, about 12 percent of tile
overall Brazilian stock market capitalization.
2 In 1999, of total capital inflows, US$30 billion was FDI, and only US$1.3 billion took the form of portfolio flows.
3American Depository Receipt. This represents indirect holdings of shares in non-US companies, through receipts issued by
custodial banks in the US.
76



Table 4: Foreign Portfolio Investment
1996       1997        1998      1999
No. of Companies listed on BOVESPA         550       536         527       478
Market Capitalization US$ billion        216.9      255.4      160.9      228.5
Foreign Portfolio Value (%)              26.72      32.07      17.52      23.26
No. of ADR/GDR Programs                     41        50          65         71
Value of ADR/GDRs US$ billion             n. a.      n. a.     14.31      27.58
Source: CVM, Monthly Report.
6.     The growth in ADRs has been much stronger than that of inward foreign portfolio
investment and in 1999 the value of ADRs exceeded foreign portfolio investment in domestic
shares. This trend can be expected to continue and perhaps accelerate. The number of Brazilian
ADR programs has steadily increased from 41 companies at year-end 1996 to 71 at the end of
1999 and 76 today. These firms have a market capitalization that amounts to about 20% of the
total market capitalization of BOVESPA. In March 2000, trading in Brazilian shares in the US
ADR market exceeded the trading volume in the BOVESPA. Yet so far, only a half dozen
Brazilian firms have been able to use ADRs to raise new capital overseas.4 However, Brazilian
ADR and trading migration is reflecting global trends and is not unique to Brazil.
7.     Bond markets in Brazil are overwhelmingly dominated by short term public debt. Public
sector securities account for over four fifths of total debt, and the share of corporate debt on issue
is minute. The composition of debt on issue has changed substantially over time. Floating rate
paper, which had constituted less than 4 percent of total debt in 1993 was almost 70 percent of
debt by 1998. A major challenge for the government today is the extension of the maturity and
the duration of its debt portfolio.
Table 5: Size and Composition of Domestic Debt Market (billion US$)
Total     Public Sector    Financial Institutions  Corporates
(% total)         (% total)            (% total)
Canada          512.5         82                  8                   10
Spain           347.8         84                  9                    8
Denmark         275.8         35                 58                   6
Brazil          271.3         81                 18                    1
South Korea     251.9         25                 33                   42
Australia       204.5         46                 32                   22
Argentina       76.6          31                 69                    -
Mexico          47.7          82                  6                   12
Source: BIS February 2000, data for September 1999.
8.     Trading in debt instruments is low due to a variety of reasons - the short maturity of the
paper issued and its high fragmentation together with the predominance of floating or indexed
issues. On the demand side, macroeconomic concerns have imposed a short-term bias. The
government of Brazil is making major efforts today to strengthen its debt markets through a
4 This requires a higher level of disclosure and compliance with US regulations than more limited and lower 'Level 'ADRs
which may be only for trading, and sometimes only for qualified institutional buyers.
77



variety of vehicles, including changes in issue type, size and frequency, better debt forecasting
and debt management administration, and improved coordination between the principal agencies
involved, the Treasury and the Central Bank.
1.3   Investors - Pension Funds and Mutual Funds
9.    Pension fund and mutual fund assets in Brazil are very large, not only in absolute terms
but also relative to bank assets and relative to GDP. Total investment fund assets at US$'120
billion compared to assets of the banking system of US$494 billion and total GDP of US$492
billion. Moreover, their assets are growing rapidly. Compared with other Latin American
countries, with 29 percent of assets to GDP, the size of institutional investors is significantly
larger in Brazil than in all other Latin American countries except for Chile. As indicated belc w,
however, institutional investors are not a major force for the stimulus of domestic capital
markets, as the bulk of their investments are in public debt securities.
Table 6: Assets held by Institutional Investors in Latin America
As a percentage of GDP (December 1998)
Pension Funds    Insurance      Mutual Funds       Total
Argentina                3.3          1.3               2.1         6.4
Brazil                  10.3         3.01               15.6       28.9
Chile                  40.3          13.5                4.6       57.2
Colombia                2.1           1.5                0.3        4.0
Mexico                  2.7           1.7               3.6         8.0
Source: Private Pension Systems and Policy Issues: OECD, 2000
10.   There is some overlap in the assets reported for pension funds and for mutual funds, a, a
proportion of mutual funds in Brazil are in fact wholly held by pension funds. The reason is Ihe
tax advantages they enjoy. Mutual funds are not subject to the transaction tax (CPMF) and
investors only have to pay CPMF if they invest new money or liquidate their holdings. This has
encouraged many pension funds to create mutual fund type vehicles to avoid the CPMF.
11.   Even after adjusting for this, Brazil's mutual fund industry is by far the largest in La,-in
America. The industry has also grown rapidly in terms of number of funds offered to investors,
with in June 1999, 2,667 mutual funds operating, up from 667 at the end of 1993. Brazilian
banks dominate Brazil's asset management business with Banco do Brasil, Bradesco, and 1Lau
controlling 41.2% of all funds. In terms of investors, 40% of all funds under management in
Brazil come from retail clients, 20% from closed pension funds and 30% from other clienits
(private banking, open pension funds, insurance companies, etc). Most mutual funds assets <-xe
allocated to fixed income: as of June 1999, 79% of all funds was allocated to so-called 60-day
fixed income funds and only 9.4% to stock funds.
78



Table 7: Mutual Funds - Portfolio Type
(share of total asset sizes, percent)
Dec-96    Dec-97       Dec-98       June-99
Stock funds                             5.0%       11.8%        9.3%        9.4%
Money market funds                     22.3%       5.1%         5.5%        3.6%
Fixed income (30 day funds)             4.6%        6.9%        8.4%        7.6%
Fixed income (60 day funds)            68.1%       76.2%       76.8%       79.4%
Total                                  100%        100%         100%        100%
Source: Comissao de Valores Mobiliaros (CVM).
12.    Among pension funds, closed funds sponsored by private or public sector companies
comprise the largest category with 297 funds and over 90 percent of total assets. The largest five
funds are public funds and together control almost 50 percent of all pension assets. To date, these
funds are mainly funded defined benefits schemes, although many private employers are now
encouraging beneficiaries to switch to defined contribution schemes, with associated transfer of
funds. In terms of asset allocation, closed pension funds, similar to mutual funds, invested the
bulk of their funds in fixed income securities (at end 1999), although the proportions allocated
for stocks is somewhat higher than for mutual funds. Open-ended funds, the second category of
pension funds, which are open to any worker, and may be set up as for-profit or not-for-profit
agencies, have recently experienced very rapid growth. Closed-end pension funds are supervised
by the SPC (Secretaria de Previdencia Complementar), while open-ended funds are supervised
by the SUSEP (Superintendencia de Seguros Privados), which also supervises insurance
companies.5
Table 8: Closed-end Pension Funds - Assets by Volume and Composition (1994-2000)
Category           Dec-94       %       Dec-96       %      Dec-98      %      Nov/OO    %
Total assets (R$ million)     46,488     100        71,672    100      90,757    100    124,945   100
Stocks                        18,177    39.1        22,162    30.9     17,465   19.2      28,132  22.5
Mutual Ftnds - Variable Income                       1,832    2.6       9,214   10.2      13,702  11.0
Real Estate                    6,692    14.4         9,225    12.9      9,684   10.7      10,453  8.4
Real Estate Loans              2,145     4.6         3,688    5.1       4,021    4.4       3,793  3.0
Mutual Funds - Fixed Income    5,779    12.4        12,064    16.8     20,648   22.8      46,997  37.6
Public Bonds                   1,771     3.8         4,115    5.7       5,918    6.5       8,559  6.9
Debentures                       862     1.9         3,446    4.8       3,229    3.6       2,567  2.1
Time Deposits                  5,334    11.5         6,891    9.6       8,818    9.7       4,077  3.3
Loans to lParticipants           887     1.9         1,592    2.2        1,74    1.9       2,231   1.8
Other                          1,201     2.6         1,704    2.4       2,382    2.6       4,228  3.4
Operations for sponsors        3,642     7.8         4,954    6.9       7,637    8.4        206  0.2
Source: ABRAPP
13.    Direct and indirect investments (i.e., through direct holdings or through mutual funds) in
(short term) public debt accounts for over half total investment. Equity investments have ranged
between 30% and 40%. Historically, it has been reported that fiduciary responsibilities in many
closed end pension funds were not well observed. Moreover, equity holdings by fund managers
were largely in non-voting shares, where the fund managers exercised virtually no governance
over the companies in which they were shareholders. Real estate asset investments and loans to
5 A third category of funds, individual retirement funds, were created at the beginning of 1998 and consist of ten-year minimum
investment funds for workers who do not have access to closed funds (self-employed, etc). At the end of ten years, workers may
withdraw the funds or obtain a retirement plan. These funds are supervised by SPC.
79



sponsoring companies have also been high. Recently, there has been a wave of change in the
management of the largest closed-end pension funds, with the introduction of new professionlal
fund managers, and also with portions of the portfolio assigned to external fund managers.
These signs of change are hopeful, and suggest that the role of pension funds in the capital
markets in the future may grow more active.
14.   In terms of investment limits, pension funds' ceilings on investment in equities and fixed
income instruments are currently 50% and 100%, respectively.6 There is no minimum investment
in equities, and there are no criteria for the matching of assets and liabilities in terms of matuiity
structure. Funds can invest up to 10% of the portfolio in foreign securities (via foreign muthal
funds), and there are no additional restrictions on investment via domestic mutual funds.7 The se
ceilings are generous, and suggest that investment in equities is constrained not so much by the
ceilings as by the greater relative attractiveness today of government paper.
II.    Key Issues Facing Brazil's Capital Markets
2.1    Macroeconomic Factors
15.   Macro stability and lower real interest rates are necessary to make investment in equities
(and corporate bonds) more attractive. Past history of high rates of inflation, coupled with la] ge
government deficits and the consequently huge public sector borrowing requirements, hl,ve
implied that rates of return on equity have been often less than those on government bonds and
bank deposits, which are less risky financial instruments. The large supply of government bor,ds
has 'crowded out' the demand for equity investments. Prospects of continued macro stability and
fiscal deficit reduction have increased lately, which may stimulate gradual growth of capital
markets.
16.   A large part of government securities issued are held by banks, constituting about 30
percent of bank assets. The huge and growing assets of Brazil's institutional investors, its mutual
funds and pension funds, are also concentrated largely in government securities. Net credit to the
private sector consequently is much lower than the volumes of bank assets or securit.es
outstanding suggest. Until crowding out is reduced, the real contribution of capital markets to
private financing needs will remain constrained.
2.2    Corporate Governance and Equities Market Development
17.   As described, Brazil's equity is concentrated in a small number of large companies and
the number of listed shares has been declining in recent years. Controlling shareholders maintuin
large stakes, liquidity is low and the "public float"-mostly of non-voting shares-is very low.
Risks to investors are exacerbated by the wedge between the interests of dominating controlling
and outside shareholders. In this environment, the main problem of governance has been the
potential for conflicts between majority and minority shareholders, with associated risk of
expropriation. Forms of expropriation include low dividends, the channeling of funds to (private)
6 As of February 2001.
7There are also prudential restrictions - pension funds may not invest more than 10% of their portfolio in the equity of a given
company or, in general, in the securities of any single issuer. They may also not hold more than 25% of a company's equity.
80



companies, higher management compensation, etc. The anticipation of expropriation has been
reflected in the lower valuation of minority shares and higher costs of capital. It has been shown
that the cost of capital for firns is higher in weak corporate governance settings.8
18.   Comparative studies for the region show that Brazil has scored particularly poorly with
respect to proportional representation of shareholders on boards, and with regard to the principle
of one-share one-vote. In terms of board practices, truly independent directors have been
uncommon, minority shareholders have had little representation and standing committees have
been rare. In terms of restrictions on voting rights, on average 46 percent of shares, a much
larger portion of public float, and almost the entire trading volume of the BOVESPA, are non-
voting. Brazil is an extreme case in terms of the divergence between control and cash flow rights.
19.   Non-voting shares issued in Brazil (so called 'preference' or PN shares) have differed
from the kind of preferred shares issued in most developed markets, which are mezzanine
securities with legal and economic characteristics closer to debt than equity, such as the
guarantee of a fixed or minimum dividend. Until recently, preferred shares in Brazil carried no
provisions for fixed or minimum retums, and thus represented the giving up of voting rights with
few compensating privileges. Most shareholders other than controlling shareholders carried no
voting rights, and thus had no means of representation of their interests. As a result potential
minority shareholders have been reluctant to invest in equities. This includes both retail investors
and new professional institutional investors.
20.   According to one estimate, the average voting premium  in Brazil (correcting for the
effects of differences in liquidity, firm dividend policies and preferences of shares) was 23
percentage points, the highest among several countries compared9. Compared to these other
countries, the weak quality of investor protection in Brazil explained 54 percent of its high
voting premium, and the quality of takeover laws explains the remaining 46 percent of the
premium. If Brazil had good investor protection, it estimated that the voting premium in Brazil
would be 11 percentage points lower. And, with a better quality of takeover laws, voting
premiums would be another 9 percentage points lower. The implication was that firm values in
Brazil have been some 20 percentage points lower, and the cost of capital in Brazil has been at
least 5 percentage points higher than comparator countries, on account of the weak property
rights. Brazil's proposed amendments to the corporate law, which were approved by the lower
chamber of Congress in March 2001 would tackle many of these issues.
21.   It may be argued that equity securities with different voting characteristics need not
retard market development, as freedom to structure contracts between investors and companies is
useful, and besides, market forces would raise the issue of voting shares if needed by issuers and
investors. However, there are negative externalities associated with a proliferation of differently
structured claims which create market fragmentation, reduce liquidity, impede price discovery,
and complicate enforcement.
22.   There are additional reasons why market forces alone would not be enough to encourage
the ratio of voting shares. First, the current mix of voting and non-voting shares has perversely
8 La Porta, R., Lopez-de-Silanes, F., and Shleifer, A., "Investor Protection and Corporate Valuation". NBER Working Paper No.
7403, July 1999
9 Nenova, 2000. "Corporate Control in Brazil," mimeo, World Bank.
81



affected capital market liquidity. Due to their huge outstanding volumes, and the low present
marginal value of a minority-held voting share, non-voting shares are the most liquid or! the
organized exchanges. Transactions involving voting shares have generally taken the form of
large off-exchange block trades, with low liquidity. A "liquidity trap" has therefore existec., as
non-voting shares have commanded a liquidity premium over voting shares. Second, there are
many externalities in creating a better corporate governance framework. Corporations nee I to
rely on the enforcement of rules by outsiders. Few investors would trust an individual
corporation's governance in a country with weak overall rules. Pressures from international
financial markets often remain limited. These principles of good governance need to apply not
only to issuers of capital but also to investors, and importantly in the case of Brazil, with its 1 uge
accumulated assets in institutionally managed funds, to the management of pension funds and
mutual funds. Today, Brazil is in the process of undertaking major enhancements t(o its
corporate governance framework, described in detail in Section III.
2.3    Taxes and Transaction Costs
23.   Key reasons for companies to go to the market in the 1970s were first, the so-called
Fundo 157 tax incentive for listing, and second, regulations which obliged pension funds and
other institutional investors to invest in stock, thus providing a ready market for any compa:ies
going to the market. Such incentives to list have long been removed. Today the tax structure is a
disincentive to capital markets development, especially in terms of trading and liquidity. rhe
major tax on financial transactions is the CPMF or provisional contribution on financial
transactions (Contribuicao Provisora sobre Movimentacao Financeira), enacted by Congress at
end 1996. The contribution was initially levied at a rate of 0.2 percent, raised to 0.38 percert in
January of 1999, and then cut back to 0.3% percent in mid-2000. The contribution is collecte iin
cascade (cumulatively) by financial institutions. The primary reason for its application was the
effort to reduce fiscal imbalances. It is easy to administer and efficient in terms of collection."
24.   As the CPMF is applied across all types of securities, investors cannot evade the tay by
trading substitute securities with similar pay-off structures. But since transactions involing
transfers of funds from one legal entity to one another within the same asset type are excluded,
there are incentives to reduce tax liabilities through the use of special tax efficient vehicles. For
example, investments in mutual funds are taxed, but movements of funds between mutual funds
and mutual funds themselves are not. Investors can, for example, evade the tax by using mu :ual
funds as a trading vehicle. Investors can also change the location of the trade, mox ing
transactions off the exchange, trading abroad, or merely choosing not to trade." Even apart fiom
the CPMF, taxation of financial transactions in Brazil varies by type of instrument, issuer md
investor, and is subject to many distortions, potentially also hindering its capital market
development. In-depth evaluation and reform of financial taxation could help capital market
development.
25.   All-in trading costs also compare unfavorably to international financial centers. The al -in
costs (commissions, taxes, ticket and spread) in Brazil exceed those in Argentina and Mexico,
and are about 50 basis points higher than those in the UK, or 125 basis points higher than in the
'o A reduction in turnover taxes will have to take into account the overall fiscal situation. The CPMF is an important contributor
to overall fiscal revenues: in 1999 it accounted for 7% of total revenues of the federal government.
Cross-country work confirms the effect of trading costs on liquidity.
82



US, where direct costs are only 8.3 basis points. Since Brazil's time zone largely overlaps with
that of the US, it is particularly vulnerable to trading migration.
Table 9: Transaction Costs in Brazil and Other Markets
(% of total transaction costs, for a foreign institutional investor)
Argentina Brazil Chile Colombia Mexico  Venezuela UK      US
Commissions and taxes 0.43   0.25   1.04  0.63     0.25    1.09      0.45     0.083
Ticket             0.04      0.04   0.06  0.10     0.02    0.09      0.01     NA
Spread             1.15      1.41   1.05  1.84     0.81    0.64      0.63     0.30
Total              1.57      1.63   2.09  2.47     1.06    1.74      1.09     0.38
Note: For Brazil, costs do not include the CPNF.
Source: State Street.
2.4    Regulation and Enforcement
26.   Overall responsibility for capital markets regulation in Brazil today is scattered across a
number of agencies, ending sometimes with overlaps in function or gaps in coverage. Mutual
fund regulation, for example, is divided between the Central Bank (for fixed income funds) and
the CVM (for equities funds). In practice the distinction between the two depends on which type
of asset. accounts for 51 percent or more of total fund value. On the other hand, there appears to
be no regulatory body today responsible for oversight of commodities futures trading. The dual
structure for pension fund regulation, with open-ended funds under SUSEP and closed-end funds
under the SPC, itself under the Ministry of Welfare. Since the SPC does not have the legal
independence of status enjoyed by organs such as the CVM, certain regulatory actions of pension
funds, such as investment regulations are undertaken by the National Monetary Council.
27.   Resources for securities regulators are stretched, and the provision of sufficient and
secure ( autonomous) budgets for an improved and restructured regulator is key. Regulators also
need enhanced independence, including fixed terms for chairpersons and board members,
continued training and professionalization, and enhanced transparency in regulation and
supervision. Better coordination with and a clearer role for self-regulatory agencies in assuring
market integrity and professional conduct is also needed.
28.   Judicial enforcement, largely in the hands of often ill-prepared state court judges, remains
weak and CVM has not enjoyed the administrative authority to aggressively investigate cases
and act on violations. From the date of act to final CVM ruling, rulings completed over the
period 1996-99 took on average more than five years, with a period of initial investigation alone
of more than two years. And, after the CVM ruling another two year passed in the appeal
process with the CRSFN (an appeals committee for financial sector cases, directly under the
surveillance of the National Monetary Council) making for a total of more than seven years.
And, as CVM limits its market surveillance almost exclusively to off-site monitoring, with on-
site inspections only on specific demand, detection of violations by CVM is very sporadic.
III.   Reform Initiatives - Major Legal Changes
29.   Today Brazil is making serious efforts to expand limited participation in the stock market
by improving minority shareholder rights.  It is simultaneously tackling limitations in
transparency and disclosure and strengthening the enforcement authority of regulators to defend
83



against market malpractices. The array of issues, as well as the number of agencies and
stakeholders involved in these efforts is vast. A large number of the reforms are packaged in a
proposed revision to the Corporate law (No. 6404/76). These accompany proposals to
simultaneously strengthen the authority of the regulators in the Securities Markets Regula-ion
(CVM, or Commisao de Valores Mobiliarios) law (No. 6385/76). Amendments to both ]l,ws
were proposed in a single bill (No 3115) presented to Congress and noted upon by the lower
chamber in March 2001. The bill also included additional measures which would strenglhen
market transparency, notably accounting reform. Passage of the proposals in Senate is iIow
awaited. These major legal initiatives are supported by new or revised CVM regulations. by
resolutions of the National Monetary Council, and through the support of agencies subject to
close government oversight, such as the stock exchange and Brazil's largest equities inveitor,
BNDESpar.
3.1    Corporate Governance, Transparency and Disclosure
30.    The principal proposed changes in the Corporate law which still awaits final passage
through Congress, with regard to governance are summarized in Table 13 below, and include a
real increase in publicly traded shares that carry voting rights, the use of the fair economic value
principle for share valuation, the institution of a genuine class of preference shareholders, *tag
along' rights, and clearer distinctions between ordinary and preference shares.
31.    The government has also backed the adoption of a set of good governance criteria by the
stock exchange, BOVESPA. Governance criteria will be applied to existing listed comparies,
which will be classified at two levels, according to the governance practices they follaw.
Companies at Level 1 agree to maintain certain standards of transparency and the provision ol
Key elements of BOVESPA 's new secondary Board
*  Only voting shares (ON) will be listed
*  Minimum free float of 25% of the total capital
*  Rights provided to majority shareholders in the sale of control will have to be extended to all shareholders ("Tag
Along" rights)
*  Financial statements will be prepared in US GAAP or following International Accounting Standards (IAS
GAAP)
*  Lock -up period of six months before shareholders can sell their shares
*  Minimum period of 15 days for companies to call a Shareholders' Meeting, (instead of 8 days as presently
requested in the Brazilian Corporate Law).
information, as well as a minimum dispersion in share ownership. Companies at Level 2 are
required to adhere to additional principles, including tag along rights, obligatory tender offers,
voting rights for preferred shareholders in critical corporate events, etc. BOVESPA has also
instituted a new trading platform for companies, reserved exclusively for the listing of companiies
that voluntarily meet its good governance criteria, which should attract new startup companies as
well as prospective new minority investors. The new rules were announced in December 200(.
84



Table 10: Governance Changes Proposed in Brazil's Corporate Law (6404/76)
Issue                                    Current Law         |      Changes Incorporated to Date
Issue                 Current Law                       ~~~~~~~~~~~(March 28 01)
1.  Huge relative volumes on issue of non-   Up to 2/3rds of a new issue can    Reduction of maximum proportion of PN
voting 'Preference' (PN) shares compared to  take the form of non-voting PN    shares to 50%. Applicable only to new
voting Ordinary (ON) shares              preferred shares              companies and IPOs of non-listed
companies. Shareholders in existing
companies may adopt for 50% ratio in
future capital increases.
2.  Limited distinctions or privileges for  Total of all PN shares must  a) dividends for PN shares at least 10
preferred (PN) stocks and ordinary stocks  receive 10% more in dividends    percent per share greater than ON shares; or
(ON)                                     than ON shares, which is easily   b) priority in receiving dividends up to at
met due to the much larger    least 3% of the book value per share; or
outstanding volume of PN shares  c) tag along rights at 80% of controllers
price.
3.  Limited voting rights for preferred  Only preferred shares with    Voting rights are vested if the company
shareholders even if they do not receive  minimum fixed dividends may    fails to distribute the 35 percent mandatory
dividends                                acquire voting rights; no      dividend.
clarification of number of years
without dividends
4.  Falling 'free float' (proportion of a  No restriction on minimum float  If free float falls below a percentage 'that
company traded on the exchange) due to                                 restrains liquidity' (CVM criteria) the
repurchases of shares by controllers, leading                           controlling shareholder will be required to
to low stock value for illiquid residual shares                        make a tender offer at 'fair value'
held by minority shareholders
5.  Absence of 'Tag along' rights - rights of  No price guarantee       ON shareholders would receive 80 percent
minority shareholders to receive share prices                           of control price; PN shares may also be
negotiated with controlling shareholders in                             entitled to the same tag along (see I above)
sale of corporate control
6.  Closure of capital (delisting) and   Book value used at present    'Fair' value to be used, computed based on
valuations of tender offers: ensuring that an                           one or more of: (a) book value; (b) market
appropriate price is given to minority                                  value of net worth (c) discounted cash flow;
shareholders at times of closures of capital -                          (d) market comparables; (e) market price of
delisting or withdrawal of listed capital                               shares; or (f) any other criterion acceptable
to CVM.
7.  Board representation of minority     No rights for minority        a) Two Board members may be elected by
(ordinary) shareholders and preferred non-  shareholders                shareholders that represent at least 15% of
voting shareholders                                                     voting shares and preferred non-voting or
restricted voting shares, up to 10% of
capital, or
b) One Board member may be elected by
voting and non-voting non-controlling
shareholders, representing at least 10% of
total capital.
8.  Election of Audit Committee ('Fiscal  Controlling shareholders can  Limits on the rights of controlling
Board')                                  appoint a majority            shareholders to appoint a majority: One
member elected by controlling
shareholder(s); one elected by the majority
of preferred non-voting, restricted voting,
and voting non-controlling shareholders.
85



32.    The pilot adoption of good governance guidelines by the government owned BNDES,par,
the equities investment wing of BNDES bank, one of the largest institutional investors, is also
significant.'2 BNDESpar's criteria for good governance have been formally adopted for its new
investments in small companies, and will entitle these companies to favorable investment terms.
Eventually, BNDESpar plans to broad-base the applicability of its governance criteria.
33.    In parallel, CVM  has been pressing for improved corporate governance on a numbc r of
fronts through its internal regulations, with an emphasis on disclosure, transparency, and
protection to minority shareholders. Its reform agenda today gives priority to (i) impro ring
transparency in public offerings to increase investor protection through the disclosure of mat .,rial
information when a new issue is made, with a special focus on the strengthening of underwr: ting
practices; (ii) reinforcing minority shareholder rights during closure of public capital, whethor to
delist, or in cases of large scale buy back of publicly issued capital. Its current proposalk are
aimed at the protection of minority, silent and absent shareholders during tender offers for
corporate closure or buyback. CVM is also aiming to consolidate its currently piecemeal and
complex regulations in this area. CVM will also (iii) strengthen ongoing disclosure of pub icly
listed companies. Obligations will now be mandatory and penalties for non-compliance are t be
specified. CVM's agenda for 2001 includes the preparation of a Manual on good corp: rate
governance practices.
34.    Market transparency and disclosure would also be improved by reforms aimed at gi zing
greater independence to accounting standards setting. The draft new Corporate Law under de bate
in Congress includes provisions for transferring the responsibility for setting accounting
standards out of CVM to a new independent professional body, which would include, besides
CVM, representatives from the Federal Council of Accountants, corporate interests, acadeinia,
and the central bank. The proposed change is in line with international practice, wiere
accounting standards are usually set by independent professional bodies (such as FASB in the
USA), after a consultative process, and remain subject to their review and amendment.'3
Meanwhile, CVM helped to strengthen the independence of the audit function through the
passage of a regulation, in the year 2000 which enhances the independence of the audit function
and reduces potential conflicts of interest by restricting accounting consultant firms from taking
on consulting contracts in the firms which they audit. In terms of future initiatives in the area of
accounting within the CVM, there are plans for the year 2001 to prepare detailed internal
Instructions on accounting statements for mutual funds, to review present accounting practices
for related party transactions (conflicts of interest), and to review its regulations concerning the
filing of mutual funds' accounting data with CVM.
35.    A  significant strengthening of investor protection through improved transparency and
disclosure requirements in equities mutual funds was achieved in 1999. CVM issued regulat ons
which provided, for the first time, for a prospectus to investors and specified its required
12 BNDESPAR "Programa de Apoio as Novas Sociedades Anonimas" launched in 2000.
"' Independent of proposed amendments to the Corporate Law, there is another bill before Congress (3741 of 2000) which a] ;o
proposes the election of a new accounting standards setting body and details specific proposals for bringing accounting rules
more in line with intemational accounting standards, especially in the areas of asset evaluation, in the use of statements for
sources and uses of funds, and in requirements for segmenting the presentation of profits by area of activity. This proposed till
also includes a provision for the publication of the financial statements of large companies, and the need for compliance with
CVM's accounting and disclosure requirements, whether or not listed.
86



contents. The regulations also mandate the provision of semi-annual progress reports on fund
performance, portfolio composition, expenses, fund manager objectives, and the provision of
relevant information on fund management and audited financial statements. They provide for the
setting up of a hotline service for investors with complaints or difficulties. There are obligatory
requirements of advance notification by mail of shareholder meetings, to increase participation
and transparency. Finally, also for the first time, the regulations set minimum capital
requirements for mutual funds.   Parallel regulations on fund managers provide for the
segregation of activities of managers to protect against conflicts of interest and increase fiduciary
obligations.
36.    Measures have been also taken in the capital markets to broaden shareholder participation
through improved access of foreigners to local securities markets. These provide for procedural
simplifications for registration, local representation, expanding access to include individual as
well as corporate and institutional investors, and providing for flexibility in shifting between all
available market instruments. 14 The Central Bank is making efforts to permit an exemption of the
CPMF - tax on financial transactions - for foreign investors trading within the domestic market'5
while the CVM is exploring means to facilitate active shareholder participation by ADR
holders. 16
3.2    Regulatory Responsibility and Enforcement Capacity
37.    The proposed bill currently before Congress (No 3115), would also enlarge and detail the
definitions of crimes against capital markets, inter alia by criminalizing the use of insider
information. It proposes stiff penalties for such acts. Provisions are also included for Internet
trade disclosures. Changes proposed in the CVM law, under the same bill, also provide for the
elimination of appeals of CVM's judgements, in cases brought before its administrative tribunal,
if the decision against the appellate is unanimous. Currently, even in cases of a unanimous
ruling, the case can be taken from the CVM to the CRSFN, an authority at the level of the
National Monetary Council, for appeals in cases involving financial sector regulatory bodies.
While the administrative procedure within the CVM itself can take two to three years, the
appeals process can add another couple of years before judgment can be exercised. This greatly
reduces the enforcement capacity of the CVM.
38.    CVM's enforcement capacity has already been enhanced, in the recent past, by the
passage of an Instruction on money-laundering through capital market transactions, which
specified maximal amounts of securities transactions which carry obligatory reporting
requirements. A significant enhancement in CVM's ability to launch an investigation has also
been achieved, in December 2000, by the passage of the Banking Secrecy Act, which provides
for permission to the CVM to request information on market participants movements of funds
between bank and securities trading accounts, when surveillance reveals unusual trading activity.
14 Resolution 2689 of the National Monetary Council, of (January 26 2000), and CVM Instruction (No 325 of January 27, 2000).
15 Resolution No 002786 of the Central Bank, of 18 October 2000. However it is not yet applicable, as the Secretaria da Receita
Federal is going to prescribe implementing guidelines.
16 CVM is attempting to require companies with ADR issues to provide increased notice before voting sessions.
87



39.   The government is currently preparing a major new proposed law, which would realign
responsibilities for oversight of financial markets, which is likely to have a major effect on the
role of the CVM. It is anticipated that the proposed new law would assign responsibilitie 3 for
consumer protection in financial markets to a single regulator. While systemic issues, including
the supervision of conglomerates, would remain with the central bank, this would inter alia iimnply
that most issues concerning regulation of both debt and equity mutual funds would be
consolidated under one agency, as would the issues concerning the regulation of pension ftEnds.
Thus the current division of oversight of debt and equity mutual funds, and of open and c] )sed
pension funds, would be rationalized.
40.  In all, the agenda is impressive. Much will be achieved in the strengthening of capital
markets as the proposed measures are accomplished.
88



Annex 7: Brazil's Payments, Clearance And Settlement Reform
I.   Brazil's Payment System Prior to Reform: Status and Issues
1. Brazil's payments system, while technically efficient and sophisticated, has suffered
from serious shortfalls. First of among these has been the high exposure of Brazil's Central
Bank (BCB) to risk of loss in the settlement process, implying systemic risk. The remarkable
speed and efficiency of payments achieved in Brazil-partly reflecting the need to cope with past
high inflation-was accompanied by the shifting of risk towards the BCB. As the economy has
stabilized, the attention has shifted from speed of payments to risk management. In effect,
implicit in the current system is the assumption that should any problem occur, the BCB would
guarantee final settlement of payments. The BCB assumes the ultimate risks since banks with
negative balances in their reserve accounts have automatic access to uncollateralized BCB
overdrafts to ensure payments settlement.' During the day, the payment system works on the
understanding that each transaction will be final, since market participants believe that the BCB
would guarantee settlement.2 The balance in each participating commercial bank reserve account
is only known to the BCB the next morning, after an end-of-day process of netting of balances
between banks. Such a payment system, which is thus said to work on a 'Deferred Net
Settlement' basis, implies that there is intra-day credit risk exposure to the BCB. Access to
uncollateralized overdrafts could create moral hazard among system participants, shifting the risk
towards the BCB in terms of ensuring the adequacy of funds available for settlement. As a result,
the Brazilian large value payment system is still not compliant with many of the core principles
for systemically important payments systems.
2. A second shortfall of the present system is the lack of a sound and reliable legal
framework for payments. Regulations governing the rights and obligations of participants in
payments transactions were scattered, and large gaps existed in terms of a legal underpinning for
many transactions involved in the payments process. A first example was the lack of legal
validation of the multilateral netting process used at the end of the day, to determine the debits
and credits of participants. Debits and credits between two participants can be settled on a gross
basis (individually, order-by-order), on a bilateral netting basis (offsetting debits and credits
between any two participants), or on a multilateral netting basis (where each participant's total
debits and credits to the entire system are offset, leaving the participant with a single net position
in relation to the entire system). This choice impacts critically on the efficiency and risk
exposure of the system, and on the availability of liquidity. Gross systems eliminate risk but
require more liquidity.3 Netting systems increase risk due to the deferred nature of the settlement
process. Netting through a counterparty implies that the original contract between two parties is
now a contract between each party and the clearinghouse. The safety of the clearinghouse was
not an issue as long as the BCB was prepared to assume that role. However with the clearing
function shifted to private agents, the need for the soundness and legal role and financial status
1 Overdrafts extended during the day were 'virtual' overdrafts in the sense that the net position was not
known until the following day.
2 Although this was not a formal requirement and therefore would become a matter under the purview of
the BCB's lender-of-last-resort facilities.
3 More recent technical innovations in real time gross settlement system design offer additional
techniques for addressing financial risks and reducing liquidity costs for participants.
89



and obligations of the clearinghouse is critical. If a party were to fail, the clearinghouse would
still have to enforce the contract. Therefore, multilateral netting requires sound risk conitrol
measures (including the existence of a sound counterparty to all system participants) and c lear
and appropriate rules for participation. The legal ground for multilateral netting and, hence. the
definition of sound rules to manage the attendant risks, was inadequate in the Brazilian system.
3. Another example of a legal shortcoming was the existence of a "zero hour" rule. Under this
rule, if a party fails to settle, trades can be 'unwound.' But this has systemic consequences in
netting systems, given the chain reaction on other participants. While this had not occuTred
while the BCB was prepared to ensure finality, this would be an issue under the new system
when the BCB would no longer fulfil this role. The lack of legal protection of assets pledged as
collateral in case of failure of a participant, and the lack of legal empowerment of the cer tral
bank in its oversight capacity have been other features of the regulatory framework which made
the Brazilian payment system particularly vulnerable to shocks and crises.
4. Third, the current system does not allow an efficient integration between payments nmd
securities settlement procedures. Additional and cumbersome procedures are needed to
guarantee delivery versus payment (DvP) in settling securities transactions -that is, to guararntee
that securities are delivered if, and only if, there is payment. This is the ultimate desirable goal in
terns of safety in securities settlement.
Brazil: Daily Debit Balances in the Payment System
A diagnostic study conducted by the Banco Central do Brasil in 1999 identified and attempted to quantify
the potential risks incurred by the Central Bank, due to its role in the settlement process. The figures
estimated are based on the daily debit balances in reserve accounts at the Central Bank for the year 1998.
The following are the potential risks for the main segments of the payment system currently in Brazil:
COMPE:   (payment system for checks):                        R$ 4,535m;
SELIC:      (payment system for government securities trading)    R$ 5,003m;
CETIP:      (payment system for other securities trading)    R$  983m;
PCAM 380: (payment system for forex trading):                R$ 6,780m.
COMPE: Servico de Compensacdo de Cheques e Outros Papeis
SELIC:: Servicio Especial de Liquidaidoe Custodia
CETIP: Central de Custodia e de Liquidacao Financiera deTitulos
PCAM380: Pagamento de Cambios
Source: Sistema de Pagamentos Brasileiro - Fixagdo de diretrizes e proposta de reestructuraqio BCB, 214/99
90



Importance of Payments Systems in Financial Infrastructure
The payment system, comprised of institutions, instruments, rules, procedures, standards and
technical means, is the infrastructure which is used to transfer monetary value between parties according
to their mutual obligations. The most significant payment systems, referred to as systemically important
payment systems, support the overall effectiveness of financial markets. Securities clearance and
settlem,ent systems are an integral part of the overall payments mechanism. In this case the exchange of
financial value consists both of the exchange of securities and the exchange of liquid funds. Safe and
efficient payments systems reduce the cost of exchanging goods and services, and are indispensable for
the functioning of the interbank, money, and capital markets. Poorly designed systems may severely drag
on the stability and developmental capacity of the economy; and at worst, can contribute to systemic
crises if risks are not adequately contained. The effects of such disruption could extend beyond the
system,, threatening the stability of other domestic and international financial markets. Financial crises are
likely to show their first signs in the payments system, and its design may help to absorb the crisis,
limiting turbulence for the rest of the financial infrastructure.
The design of payment system infrastructures in the present fast-changing technological and
institutional environments entails trade-offs between efficiency, reliability, risks and system stability.
Maintaining efficiency while reducing systemic risk is a challenge facing many countries, and Brazil is in
the forefront of transformation in the trend to adopt lower risk gross settlement systems among Latin
American countries. The internationalization of financial markets and episodes of severe financial crisis
around the world have accelerated the development of standards to improve payment system
performance in termns of risk control and shock resilience. The Committee on Payment and Settlement
Systerns (CPSS) of the G1O countries has recently laid out the Core Principlesfor Systemically Important
Payment Systems, i.e. those systems that handle large transaction volumes in relation to the size of their
participants.
Market forces alone will not necessarily optimize the objectives of safety and efficiency, since
operators and participants do not have adequate incentives to minimize risks of failure or costs imposed
on other participants. Central banks typically have a leading role in the pursuit of safety and efficiency
objectives of payments systems because of their strong interest in financial stability, their role in
providing settlement accounts for payment system participants, and their concerns with the functioning of
money markets for the implementation of monetary policy. Roles between the private and public sectors
are evolving internationally, with a more active role for the private sector in payment system
management, particularly in the clearing end of the process, and with oversight functions exercised by the
central bank and other regulators (e.g. the securities regulator).
Growing attention is being paid also to securities settlement systems (SSSs). In recent years
trading and settlement volumes have soared. Cross-border trades and settlements have grown especially
rapidly. Weaknesses in SSSs could result in significant liquidity pressures or credit losses to other
participants causing systemic disturbances to other payment and settlement systems. Any disruption of
securiities settlements has the potential to spill over to any payment systems used by the SSS or that use
the S3S to transfer collateral. A Task Force jointly set up by the CPSS and IOSCO has recently produced
a set of recommendations for securities settlement systems.
A large number of studies have been conducted in recent years to show how the design of the
payments system can impact on financial stability and economic development. (e.g., Report of the
Committee on Interbank Netting Schemes of the Central Banks of the Group of Ten Countries, BIS,
November 2000; Committee on Payment and Settlement Systems: The Real Time Gross Settlement
Systems, BIS, March 1997; Committee on Payment and Settlement Systems: Core Principles for
Systemically Important Payment Systems, BIS, January 2001; Listfield, R.., and Montes-Negret F., 1994,
Modernizing Payment Systems in Emerging Economies, World Bank Policy Research Working Paper.)
91



II.   Details of the Multipillar Reform Program  for Brazil's Payment System
5. The scope of Brazil's reform program for its payments system is vast and consists of nany
interlinked series of actions. Two elements of the Brazilian reform  process have been no:able,
contributing to its breadth and complexity. First, the central bank conducted a comprehensive
diagnostic study before defining the reform which sought to identify all forms of risks present in
the system. Second, the central bank has consistently involved key stakeholders in the r form
debate. The central bank's project team has been engaged in a series of meetings, workshop , and
seminars with almost all players in the Brazilian financial market (banks, other fint-ncial
institutions, clearinghouses, other regulators), which has enabled widespread understandingf and
support for the new systems. When the reform is completed, Brazil will have a very mo)dern
payment system, compliant with best international standards, with a sound interconnection
between payments and securities settlement.
Main Features of the New Payments System
A detailed description of the features of the new Brazilian payment system can be found in several Bi azil
Central Bank documents and, in particular, in Banco Central do Brasil, "Projecto de Reestruturacao do Sist Zma
de Pagamentos Brasileiros, Nota Tecnica, 31-10-2000". For all systems managed and operated by the cen.tral
bank, there will be an elimination of Central Bank exposure to settlement risk. This will be achieved b, the
introduction of the possibility of undertaking settlement in real time (i.e., as they occur) and on a transactio) i by
transaction basis. Such a system, which eliminates the need for any deferred netting process and its associaited
risks in case of insufficiency of funds, is referred to as a Real Time Gross Settlement or RTGS system. It imr lies
that no negative overdrafts are permitted on bank reserve accounts at any moment in time. These characteri.tics
will apply to the new RTGS system (Sistema de Transferencia de Reserves, STR) and to the Servicio Espe.ial
de Liquida,cao e Custodia (SELIC). This eliminates all central Bank exposure to settlement risk. The SEIC
system, which is the system for clearance and settlement of government securities, will be fully integrated wtith
the new Central Bank system.
At the same time, the safety of payments systems outside the Central Bank will also be strengther ed,
through new rules and regulations providing safeguards to participants. These payments systems will continuc to
work on the basis of some form of netting, so that some risk remains until all netting is completed.  In
particular, for settlement systems which the Central Bank considers 'systemically important' there are further
precautions: settlement of net balances will have to occur on the bank reserve accounts held at the central bank;
settlement will have to occur on the same day in which the value (money, assets, etc.) is transferred from one
participant to another; and the systems will have to provide for multiple settlement sessions during the cay.
There are new rules for clearinghouses, which by law must (I) assume the counterparty risk; and (2) ensurc in
all circumstances the settlement of payment transactions exchanged within the system. To this end, the
clearinghouse will have to put in place appropriate risk control mechanisms, such as settlement guarantee fur ds,
contingent liquidity facilities, loss sharing agreements, etc. The combination of these features can vary accord ng
to the nature of the system, subject to the approval of the central bank.
For settlement systems handling securities transactions or foreign exchange transactions, the principle of
Delivery Versus Payment (DvP) will have to be respected in all circumstances.
6. The reform of the Brazilian payment system has three main objectives. First, the reduc,tion
of systemic risk; by a reduction of the exposure to Central Bank as a counterparty in settlerr ent.
Second, a more appropriate sharing of remaining risks associated with settlement of paynment
transactions between the central bank and private market players. Third, improved compliance
of the main systemically  important payment systems of the country  with  international
standards and best practices, allowing the Brazilian financial sector and capital markets to play
a role in the global market environment. A number of actions are envisaged in this program,
92



some of which are ongoing, and many of which have recently been implemented. This
interlocking series of actions is described in greater detail below.
A.   The Reform of the Legal Framework for the Payments System
7. The new legal framework clearly establishes the role of the BCB in terms of oversight of the
payments system. It was established by Provisional Law No 2008 in December 1999 granted
private clearinghouses certain legal rights and protections, e.g., in terms of the use of collateral,
and recognition of multilateral netting.4 Specifically, it granted legal rights to seize the collateral
of bankrupt participants held to secure financial transactions, protected the payments system
against the implications of permitting the 'unwinding' of trades, and gave legal recognition to
multilateral netting schemes. The framework also clarified specific responsibilities for
clearinghouses, and required them to assume the counterparty risk vis-A-vis their participants and
the central bank. This Provisional Law was revised (no 2115-14) in December 2000 in order to
incorporate some additional safeguards.5 On March 27, 2001, the Brazilian Congress approved
and converted this into Law 10214. New by-laws for clearinghouses have been prepared by the
Central Bank are currently available for public consultation and comment. When finalized, the
new regulatory framework will provide BCB with powers to request from any participant the
information necessary for BCB to undertake its oversight activities.
B.   Launch of the Central Bank's Ne w Gross Settlement System (STR)
8. In late 2001, the BCB will start operating a new settlement system (Sistema de Transferencia
de Reserves - STR) which will: a) settle in real time and on a gross basis transfers of funds on
bank reserve accounts (RTGS); b) reduce to zero the risk for the central bank since each transfer
will occur only in case of a positive balance on the reserve account to be debited; c) be consistent
with international best practices since it will allow only credit transfers, i.e. payment orders will
originate from the financial institution whose reserve account is going to be debited.
9. With the implementation of the STR, fund transfers will be considered final, i.e., irrevocable
and unconditional, in the exact moment when the accounts are moved at the central bank. To
date, several implementation measures are being carried out by the central bank in cooperation
with the banking sector. A manual with messaging standards and other technically important
specifications was issued in March 2001.
4 A Medida Provisoria or provisional law in Brazil is considered applicable by default, i.e., even in the
absence of a specific Congressional vote of acceptance.
5 Including the legal separation of the net assets of each discrete clearing and settlement environment,
thus assuring that any collateral posted in a specific environment be solely used for settlement in that
specific environment. In addition, clearinghouses became subject to sanctions similar to those applying to
financial institutions. A specific restriction is that the net assets of a clearinghouse cannot be used as
pledged collateral for any loans sought by the clearinghouse.
93



Features of the New Gross Settlement System
To facilitate the smooth functioning of the Brazilian payment system and prompt settlement within STR,
the Banco Central to Brasil will provide, upon request, intra-day credit to participant financial institution:
holding a reserve account at the central bank. The intra-day credit will be provided through collateralized repos
and at zero interest rate. Payment transactions that are unable to be settled in the moment in which they aie
inserted into the system, due to insufficient balances, will be kept in a queue and will be processed when i inds
become available in the account, according to the "first in first out rule". Only for payment orders originar-d in
the SELIC system will the unavailability of funds in the reserve account imply the immediate rejection of he
transaction. The system will operate on a relatively long daily cycle, from 8.00 am to 7.00 p.m. (Brasilia time).
In managing payment queues, a liquidity saving mechanism ofprioritization of payment orders Mil]l be
provided, based on three priority levels. Consequently, financial institutions will be free to assign their preferred
priority to all payment transactions except those stemming from cash withdrawals and the settlement of net
j balances of clearinghouses. In addition, financial institutions have freedom to change the priority of a pa-7nent
transiting in a queue, by canceling and re-introducing the order. Similar optimization mechanisms are use i in
almost all modem RTGS systems around the world.
The central bank is changing incentives to move large value payments out of checks to the RTGS s /stem.
In particular, banks vvill be required to pre-collateralize their future net debit positions in the COMPE (che -k
ciearing and settlement ) system at the beginning of the day. This will impose a significant burden on bank:s,
ihich vvill indutce them to avoid the use of checks for large value payments.
C.   Interactions between the Central Bank and Private Clearinghouses
10.   Settlements of private clearinghouses will operate under the oversight of the  3CB,
according to rules approved by BCB. After the netting process, at the clearing houses, the final
stage of settlement will occur in all circumstances via the BCB, in the new STR (RTGS) sy stem.
To achieve this, each clearinghouse will open a settlement account at the BCB. Banks wi:h net
debit positions will credit the clearinghouse settlement account.
I1.  The clearinghouse, after verifying that all payment orders have gone through, will pla ze an
order through STR to debit its account and credit the accounts of the banks in a net l;redit
position. In case payments of a financial institution in a net debit position do not go througlh due
to insufficient funds, the clearinghouse will adopt the new risk control mechanisms to be
contained in its rules and procedures, in order to guarantee the positive conclusion of the
settlement process. At the end of the operating day, the clearinghouse will have to transfe- any
eventual positive balance from its settlement account to the account of one or more banks )f its
choice. Consequently clearinghouse settlement accounts will present a zero balance at the e:id of
the day.
94



12. A future issue which will arise is the viability of multiple clearing houses. There are a
number of possibilities in this regard, and the viability issue will clearly be dependent on the
scale and volume of payments supported by each clearing house system.
New Private Sector Initiatives for Clearing Services in Brazil:
Two options, complementary to the RTGS system, are under advanced consideration. The long term
sustainability of multiple systems will eventually be dependent on the scale and volume of transactions achieved
under each.
Hybrid Systemfor settlement of large value transactions
The main bankers' association (Febraban) is currently studying the launch of a new clearinghouse for large
value transactions, owned by the banks. In the design currently envisaged, the new system will present some
"hybrid" features, i.e. a mix of gross and deferred net arrangements, which should make is similar to the design of
the large value system owned and operated by some large banks in New York (New Chips). In particular, at the
end of the operating day, each participant will have to pre-deposit funds in an account held by the clearinghouse at
the Banco Central do Brasil. Payments order originated by each bank will be settled through the clearinghouse
account along the day. Continuous multilateral clearing of payment orders inserted by system participants is
envisaged.
Clearinghousefor Interbank Foreign Exchange operations
With support from the central bank, market players and bankers associations are discussing the launch of a
settlement systems for FOREX operations. The system, which will be operated by the derivatives exchange (Bolsa
de Mercadorias e Futuros, BM&F), should: 1) enable multilateral clearing of these transactions; 2) respects the
legal requisites established for systemically important payment systems; 3) guarantee settlement finality and assume
the counterparty risk for all operations. The new system is scheduled to become operational in the first semester of
2001 and is now being studied in detail. Appropriate contacts will be held with the central banks of issue of the
currency admitted to the system in the context of cooperative oversight. Particular attention is being paid to
contingent lines of credit provided by third parties in both foreign and the national currencies to the new system to
guarantee settlement in the case of inability to settle by one or more participants.
95



D.   Launch of a New Settlement Process for Government Securities
13. 'SELIC' will continue to be the central depository for federal public securities. However,
with the launch of the new Central Bank payments system, starting in late 2001, SELIC will ilso
be able to settle all transactions in real team on a gross basis, according to best international
practice.'
How the New System for Government Securities Settlement will Work
SELIC will maintain a direct link with the new system, STR, which will process the cash leg of the securities
transaction. Financial institutions which held reserve accounts at the central bank will participate in the systemn as
settlement entities. All other institutions, which will be considered indirect participants in the settlement proz;ess,
and will have to indicate for each operation the settlement bank (direct participant) of choice. The following are
the main features of the new system.
During the settlement of the cash leg of each operation, the indirect participant will have to respect bilateral ci edit
limits assigned by the direct participants indicated as their designated settlement bank. Settlement of e ach
operation, will first require the verification of the existence of the underlying securities and block them in the
custodian account of the seller until the settlement process is completed. After the block, SELIC will immediately
order the transfer of funds to the Central Bank's STR system. When the buyer is an indirect participant, SE LIC
will verify first whether the transaction's amount falls within the bilateral limit assigned by the liquidating bink.
If sufficient funds are held in the reserve account to be debited, the transaction will be finalized at the two pcints
(securities in SELIC and funds in the STR). In the opposite case, the STR will reject the transfer order to SE AC
in order to cancel the operation.
SELIC will accept transfer orders from 8.00 am to 7.00 p.m. The closing time can be postponed at discretioii of
the Banco Central do Brasil. In general, the system will allow queuing of the transaction only in the case of
insufficiency of negotiated securities. Apart from specific circumstances indicated by the central bank, operations
are allowed to stay in the queue for a maximum time of 30 (thirty) minutes, with the time limit of 12.30 p.m. After
this time, insufficiency of securities will imply immediate rejection of the transaction from the SELIC system.
E.   Increasing the Safety and Efficiency of Settlement Systems for Other Securities
14.  Following an agreement among Brazilian stock exchanges at the beginning of 20)0,
BOVESPA became the only stock exchange in the country. However, the Rio stock exchange?
BVRJ, assumed the specialized responsibility for designing and operating a system  for he
automated trading of public debt securities (SISBEX).
15.   The CBLC, which was the clearinghouse of the Sao Paulo (BOVESPA) exchange,
incorporated the former clearinghouse of the Rio exchange, CLC, in the context of tlis
restructuring. CBLC is now preparing to become the only clearinghouse for all operaticins
exchanged in BOVESPA as well as BVRJ/SISBEX. In the new environtnent, in compliarce
with the new requisites for systemically important system, the CBLC will: 1) assume lhe
6 Government securities settlement will take place on a 'model 1 DvP' basis, i.e., with the clearance of
both the cash leg and the securities leg on a gross basis.
96



counterparty risk also for SISBEX operations; 2) settle net positions of participants directly in
the reserve accounts at the central bank.
16. Finally, CETIP, the central custodial and settlement system for private securities, is also
getting prepared for the new environment in which it too will have to settle all operations in the
accounts held at the central bank. All these developments need to be completed by late 2001.
F.  Improving the Oversight Role of the Central Bank
17. The Central Bank's role with respect to the payments mechanism in Brazil will evolve
considerably as a result of the reform process. Its role as a provider of clearinghouse services
will be reduced. It will concentrate on managing the new real time gross settlement system for
payments and government securities. And its role as overseer of private-sector payments
systems will expand. It will not only oversee a multiplicity of organized payment arrangements
(clearinghouses) but, as the overall payment system develops, and technological advances
increase the complexity of the several payment mechanisms, its oversight role will become
increasingly more complex and relevant. Already in the near future it will have to review the
compliance of clearinghouses with central bank promulgated minimum standards. To carry out
this mandate, the Central Bank might consider using external assistance from institutions and
individuals with practical experience in the evaluation of risk control mechanisms. This
assistance might take several forms such as training of internal personnel, ad hoc visits to
institutions that have successfully performed this role and on-site consulting services during the
initial and critical evaluation phase. Some of these activities would be supported under the
companion TA loan to the proposed PFSECAL.
III. Measuring the Success of Payments System Reform in Brazil
18.  Several factors signal a favorable outcome of the reform  program.  The costs of
implementation of the reform (estimated not to. exceed US$10 million) should fall well within
the international experience for similar projects. Cooperation failure is unlikely to emerge since
the banking sector and other stakeholders share the central bank's objectives and are preparing
themselves for the new system, even though some financial institutions might need extra time to
take full advantage of all its new features. And the move from a deferred net system to an RTGS
should occur smoothly since abundant intra-day liquidity will be available to system participants.
19. If implemented as designed, the new RTGS system is very likely to meet in full the Core
Principles for systematically important payments systems. In particular the legal framework
surrounding the new large value system will be sound (Principle I) and rules and procedures
should be clear and well understood by system participants (Principle II). Participants should be
aware of the risks they incur through the participation in the system (Principle III) and settlement
will be on the same day and in central bank's money (Principles IV and VI). The RTGS system
should be operationally reliable (Principle VII) and relatively efficient (Principle VIII); access to
it should be fairly open (Principle IX) and its governance should be appropriate (Principle X).
20. The Central bank is aware that it will need to exercise an active oversight role on all
domestic payment systems and should be in the position to play this role. For example, for
private clearinghouses settling on a net basis the central bank is very likely to impose the
97



requisite that the system should be able to settle in case of failure of the largest particip 3nt
(Principle V). Finally, the new system will allow a better integration between payments nd
securities settlement systems in Brazil and will facilitate the compliance of the Brazil.an
securities settlement systems to the new international standards set up recently by the CPSS '.nd
IOSCO. Fulfillment of these principles and standards could be used as indicators to measure .he
success of the overall reform program.
21. Other indicators to measure the outcome of the reform include: (1) overall timeliness of he
process. All Brazilian payment systems should be running smoothly and in integrated way oni a
timely manner, based on the calendar announced by the Central Bank, which calls for :he
launching of the STR in late 2001. (2) Robustness of the legal framework, as evidenced by he
ability of participants to enforce contracts in the new regulatory framework.  (3)Enhanced
oversight by the Central bank, which will soon be called to demonstrate this capacity in ohe
process of authorization of private clearinghouses. An analysis of the adequacy and soundness of
risk control measures of the new clearinghouses, on one hand, could be evaluated together with
the consideration, on the other hand, that they do not impose an excessive cost on participarts.
(4) When completed, the Brazilian payment system may have to pass an efficiency test to ensuare
that all systems serve effective market needs and that no duplication is in place. Finally, (5 i a
survey of market players and final customers could be undertaken to ensure that the ni ,w
payment system serves the needs of both groups.
98



Annex 8: Status of Bank Group Operations
CAS Anne, 8 - Brazil
Status Of Ban& Group Opanlions (Operations Portolio)
A. 01 bata 040412*001
Closed Projects 207
TsII05sse     2,73510
olathd,h   316 78
Tobl IDw-rw.a   201 80
of ~c h.  18,287.00
T5t0a Dib50ae6   23.006 71
zf wch A   16003 79
Told UndsburS    3,551 89
Toll Un4dbr-    I D 59
TOt. Urdirb-ul    3s.52 4
Ative ProotIs                                                                                                                               Olfference Betne
Lstd PSR                                                                                      Expected and Actual
Supervaison Rating                                 0DasnuItunt in     ltiona                         i     rf
Proct ID      Prdojct Name               v brt   knrzn tin             Fiscal Year       BRD         iDA     GRANT            Cancel.  Undisb.     Org. Fnn Ravd
P006559       (BF-R)SP.TSP           S                     S             1998              45          0          0               0        42       41         0
P043871       (PIAUI)R.POVERTY       S                     S             1997              30          0          0               0       2.3       2.3        0
P043873       AG TECH DEV.           S                     S             1997              60         0           0               0      37.8      29.7      8.2
P055388      ANIMAL&PLANT DIS. CO  S                       S             1999              44         0           0               0        44      18.8        0
P006562       BAHiA MUN.DV           S                     S             1997             100          0          0               0      70.2      57 2     -1.5
P035728       BAHiAVWTRRESOURCESS                          S             1998              51         0           0               0      32.8      261         0
P006564       BELO H M.TSP           S                     S             1995              99         0           0               0      26.6      25.1        0
P037828       BR (PR)R.POVERTY       S                     5             1996             175          0          0               0    103.1       91.8        0
P044597       BR BIODIVERSITY FUND S                       S             1996               0         0          20               0       8.1       3.4        0
P058129       BREMER.FIREPREVEN1S                          S             1999              15          0          0               0      121       11.1      1.8
P047309       BR ENERGY EFFICIENCY S                       S             2000               0         0          15               0        14       0.6        0
P006512       BR ENV/CONS(CVRD)   U                        U             1996               0          0          0               0         0         0        0
P006474       BRLANDMGT3(SAOPAIHS                          S             1998              55          0          0               0        53      26.5       11
P006524       BR MINAS MNC.DEVELOF S                       S             1994             150         0           0              9.7     20.8      30.5     25.5
P048870       BR MT STATE PRIV.      S                     S             1997              45          0          0               0         5        5         0
P057910       BR PENSION REFORM LIl HS                     S             1998               5         0           0               0       3.3       3.3        0
P006541       BRWTR0IPLN(SP/PR/FES                         S             1993             245          0          0             11.2        0      11.2      0.2
P054120       BR- AIDS & STD Control I S                   S             1999             165          0          0              3.5     87.5      52.2        0
P043874       BR- DISEASE SURVEILLAS                       U             1999             100          0          0               0      62.7      63.9        0
P050763       BR- Fundescolb2        S                     S             1999             202         0           0               0      88.8    -45.7         0
P050762       BR- Fundescol I        5                     5             1998            62.5          0          0               0       0.8      -4.8        0
P006554       BR- HEALTH SECTOR RE S                       S             1996             300         0           0               0    165.9    165.9          0
P006543       BR- MINASGERAIS BASI-S                       5             1994             150         0           0               0      10.7      10.7        0
P006558       BR- PARANA BASIC EDU, S                      5             1994              96         0           0               0       5.9       5.9        0
P038947       BR- SC. &TECH3         S                     U             1998             155         0           0               0     128.1    113.1         0
P059565       BR- BA BASIC EDU PROJI S                     S             2001            69.6         0           0               0      89.6         0        0
P059566       BR- CEARA BASIC EDUC/#                       #             2001              90          0          0               0        90         0        0
P046052       CEARA WATER PILOT   S                        S             1997              9.6         0          0               0       4.9       4 9      1.1
P006449       CEARA WTR MGT (PROG S                        S             2000             136          0          0               0    131.6        25         0
P048357       CEN.BANK TAL           S                     S             1999              20         0           0               0       7.3       7.3        0
P006436      Ceara Urban Development S                     S             1995             140          0          0               0      23.6      23.6      1.6
P039200       ENERGY EFFICIENCY (EL S                      S             2000            43.4         0           0               0        43       1.6        0
P006522       ESP.SANTO WATER        S                     S             1994             154         0           0              54      18.3      72.3        2
P006532       FED HWY DECENTR        S                     U             1997             300          0          0               0    157.3    157.3          0
P038895       FED.WTR MGT            S                     S             1998             198          0          0               0    129.6         96     19.6
P062619       INSS REF UL            S                     S             2000               5         0           0               0         4       1.9        0
P006475       LAND RFM PiLOT         S                     S             1997              90          0          0               0      24.2      20.8        0
P050772       LAND-BASED POVERTYIA                         9 #           2001           202.1          0          0               0    204.2          0        0
P051701       MARANHAO R.POVERTY S                         S             1998              80         0           0               0      15.8       -15        0
P006505       MATO GROSSO NAT RES U                        U             1992             205         0           0               0      34.4      34.4        0
P006210       NATL BIODIVERSiTY      S                     S             1996               0          0         10               0       3.6       1.2      1.6
P035741       NATLENV2               S                     S             2000              15         0           0               0      13.4       1.7      0.8
P006453       NE IRRIG I             S                     U             1990               0          0          0               0         0         0        0
P050776       NE MicmfranceDevelopm S                      5             2000              50          0          0               0        42        -8        0
P042565       PARAIBA R.POVERTY    S                       5             1998              60         0           0               0      34.8       8.7        0
P060575       PRGM.FISCAL REFORM E #                                     2001           757.6         0           0               0    757.6          0        0
P039199       PROSANEAR 2            S                     S             2000             30.3         0          0               0        30       0.3        0
P042566       R.POVERTY(PE)          S                     S             1997              39         0           0               0       5.8       5.8        0
P038896       R.POVERTY(RGN)         S                     S             1997              24         0           0               0       3.8       3.8        0
P040028       RAILWAYS RESTRUCTUF S                        S             1996             350          0          0              50        43        93       43
P038882       RECIFE M.TSP           S                     S             1995             102          0          0               0      49.7      48.2        0
P034578       RGSHvYNMGT             S                     S             1997              70          0          0               0        55        43       19
P043868       RGS LAND MGT/POVERr S                        S             1997             100          0          0               0      73.1      38.7        0
P043421       RJ M.TRANSIT PRJ.      S                     S             1998             186         0           0             17.2      151     163.9        0
P006454       RONDONiA NTRL RES. M S                       S             1992             167          0          0               0      25.7      25.7        0
P035717       RURAL POV. (BAHIA)    S                      S             1995             105          0          0               0       1.7       1.7        0
P038864       RURAL POV. CEARA    HS                       S             1995              70         0           0               0       1.6       1.8        0
P048869      SALVADOR URBAN TRAN S                         S             1999             150          0          0               0    136.4       48.9        0
P043420      WATER S MOD.2           U                     U             1998             150          0          0               0    148.3    121.4       79.1
Overak resust                                                           Result         6518.2         0          45            145.5   3577.6   17M.5        213
99
S. Intended disbursements to date m,nus actual disbursements to date as projected at appceosaj



Annex 9: Statement of IFC's Held and Disbursed Portfolio
CAS Annex B8 (IFC) for Brazil
Brazil
Statement of IFCs
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 1213112000
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                        Disburw ed
FY Approval                                             Companv            Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic  Loan   Equity Q .asi  Partic
1987/96                                                 Perdigao            21.83         0      0       8  21.88      0       0      8
1989/95                                                 Politeno Ind.        8.77         0      0      0   8.77       0      0       0
1994/00                                                 Portobello             16         0      0      0  15.29       0      0       0
2000 Puras                   5        0       0      0      5       0      0      0
199S Randon                  7        0      3       0      7       0      3      0
1991 Rhodia-Ster          1.43     5.95      0       0   1.43   5.95       0      0
1995 Rhodiaco/PTA         12.5        0      0       9   12.5       0      0      9
1990 Ripasa                  0        5      0       0      0       5      0      0
1997 Rodovia             31.11        0      0   63.6  31.11        0      0   63.6
1994/' S.A.I.C.C.            0         0   6.87      0       0      0   6.87       0
1987/97                                                 SP Alpargatas          20         0      5      0      20      0      5       0
1994/95197                                              Sadia                  24         0      8    128      24      0      8    128
1997 Samarco              13.5        0      0   9.33    13.5       0      0   9.33
2000 Samaritano             20        0       0      0      0       0      0      0
1998 Saraiva             12.69        3      0       0  12.69       3      0      0
1997 Sucomco              10.5        0      0       0   10.5       0      0      0
1996 TIGRE               17.31        0      5  10.68  17.31        0      5  10.68
1992/93                                                 TRIKEM                  0         0      0      0       0      0      0       0
1998 Tecon Rio Grande      7.5        0    5.5      18   6.65      0    5.5  15.95
1993 Votorantim           5.86        0      0   0.43   5.86       0       0   0.43
1999 Vulcabras             20         0      0       0     20      0       0      0
1997 Wembley                 0       10      0       0      0      10      0      0
1999 Wiest                   0        0      8       0      0       0      8      0
1998 Arteb                 20         7      0      20     20      7       0     20
1999 AutoBAn               35         0      0      31  22.84       0      0  20.23
1993 BACELL                  6      15.7     0   16.2       6   15.7       0   16,2
2000 BBA                    40        0       0      0      0       0      0      0
199S BSC                 11.53        0      0   6.18  11.53        0      0   6.18
1990/91/92                                              Bahia Sul               0         0      0      0       0      0      0       0
1996 Banco Bradesco         13        0      0  16.77      13      0       0  16.77
1997 Bompreco            20.83        0      5       0  20.83       0      5      0
1991 Bradesco-Bahia        1.5        0      0       0     1.5      0      0      0
1991 Bradesco-Eucatex        5        0      0       0      5       0      0      0
1995 Bradesco-Hering       7.5        0      0       0    7.5       0      0      0
1991 Bradesco-Pearofl      7.5        0      0       0    7.5      0       0      0
1991 Bradesco-Romi           0      0.4      0       0      0    0.4       0      0
1995 Brahma- BRA          12.5        0      5   12.3   12.5       0       5   12.3
1993/96                                                 CEVAL                   0        10      0      0       0     10      0       0
1994/96                                                 CHAPECO                15         0      0      5      15      0      0       5
1973fl8/83                                              CODEMIN                 0       0.4      0      0       0    0.4      0       0
1992 CRP-Cadcri              0     0.68      0       0      0   0.68       0      0
1995 Canbuhy/MC          11.25        0      0       0  11.25       0      0      0
1997 Copesul               30         0      0 128.57      30       0      0 128.57
1993/97/00                                              Cotemninas              0      0.53      0       0      0   0.53      0       0
1980/92                                                 DENPASA                 0      0.12      0      0       0   0.12      0       0
1998 Dixie Toga              0       15       0      0      0      15      0      0
1987/96/97                                              Duratex              19.29        0      0  53.52  19.29       0      0  53.52
1990 ENGEPOL              0.22        0      0       0   0.22       0      0      0
1999 Elianc                 32        0      13      0     32       0     13      0
1998 Empesca                 5        0      10      0      5       0     10      0
2001 Escol@                  0     3.25       0      0      0   3.25       0      0
2000 Fleury                  9        0       6      0      2       0      6      0
199S Fosfernil              20        0      0      45  18.15       0      0  40.85
199S Fras-le                10        0      10      0     10      0    6.7       0
1994 GAVEA                 7.5        0    5.5       0    7.5      0    5.5       0
1994 GP Capir l              0     9.96      0       0      0   9.96       0      0
1995/96/98                                              Globocabo               0      9.91      0      0       0   9.91      0       0
1997 Guilmana-Amorim    27.75         0      0  71.84  27.75        0      0  71.84
1998 Icatu Equity            0       30      0       0      0   6.94       0      0
1999 Imiova SA              20        5       0     60   11.5       5      0   34.5
1980/87/97                                              Ipiranga             37.33        0      0 111.82  37.33       0      0 111.82
1999 ltaberaba               0        0   5.34       0      0       0   5 34      0
1999 JOSAPAR                 S        0      7       0      3       0      7      0
1995 LATASA - Brazil         4        0      5    0.5       4       0      5    0.5
100



1996/97                                               Lightel                0     8.17      0      0      0   8.17      0      0
1995 Lojas Americana      18        0      5      6      18     0      5      6
1987192/96                                            MBR                    0        0      0      0      0      0      0      0
1993 Macedo Alimantos    8.17       0      5       0   8.17     0      5       0
1996 Mallory             5.09       0      0      0   5.09      0      0      0
1975/96                                               Oxiteno NE            15        5      0      0     15      0      0      0
1982184/16                                            PISA                   0        0      0      0      0      0      0      0
1994 ParaPigmentos       25.8       0      9  20.53   25.8      0      9  20.53
Total Portfolio:                           763.81   145.07 132.21 852.27 667.74 117.01 128.91  809.8
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan  Eqiuity   Quasi Partic
2000 Sepetiba          27000    6000        0  18000
2001 Tecon Salvador     3500      1000      0  5000
2000 BBA                    0        0      0 50000
1997 CTBC              35000        0      0 150000
1999 Cibrasec              0    7500       0      0
1998 FSA               35000        0  10000 45000
1996 Globocaboll           0        0      0 38000
1998 Ipiranga-RI 2         0    92.07      0      0
1999 MBRLTDP           20000        0  5000 115000
Total Pending Commitment:                       120500  14592.1  15000 421000
101



Annex 10: Brazil At A Glance
Brazil at a glance                                                                81DO
Latin    Upper-                        _
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             America   middle-
Brazil   & Carib.   income      Development diamond
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                        168.1       509        573                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                     4,420      3,840     4,900
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                       742.7      1,955     2,811
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                           14         1.6       1.4
Labor force (9)                                          2.1        2.5       2.1      GNP                              Grost;
per                             primarq
Most recent estimate latest year available, 1993-S9)                                   capita                       enrollmer t
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (X of total population)                 81         75         76   !
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         67         70         70   |
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 33         31         27
Child malnutrition (X of children under 5)                6          8          7   |            Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (X of population)          ..       75         78
Illiteracy (X of population age 15+)                      15        12         10               B
Gross pnmary enrollment (% of school-age population)     125       113        109               Brazd
Male                                                                                          Upper-middle-income group
Female                                                   -
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1999
Economic ratIos'
GDP (USS billions)                           225.0    448.8       787.1     791.4
Gross domestic investmentVGDP                 22.8      24-8       21.3      21.0                      Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP              7.1       8.2        7.4       9.7
Gross domestic savingslGDP                    20.7      28 0       18.6      21.7
Gross national savings/GOP                     18.0     25.0       16.3      18.8
Current account balance/GDP                    -4.7      0.4       -4.3      -3.1      Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                          2.1       0.9        1.4       1.5     Savings                       Investmenit
Total debUGDP                                 27 3      25 5       29.5      28.0   . Svn
Total debt service/exports                     62.8     36.3       73.5     120.8
Present value of debt/GDP                                          27.9
Present value of debt/exports                                     337.5
Indebtedness
197949  1989-99      1998       1999   199943
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   2.9       2.6     -0.1        1.0       4.0                Brazil
GNP per capita                        0.9       0.7     -1.4       -2.6       2.8                Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services         8.9      4.2       0.2       -6.5       5.6                      _
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY                                                                                 __
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of investment and GDP I%)
(% of GDP)                                                                            l-
Agrculture                                     11.0      8.5        8.4       8.4
Industry                                      40.6      42.7       28.8      31.7
Manuiacturing                                31.0     29.5       22.7      22.7      9s
Services                                      48.3      48.8      62.8       59.9      S      94    5    957    98
Private consumption                           69.5      57.8      63.6       62.8    -10
General government consumption                  9.7     14.3       17.8      15.6                     GD1       0   GDP
Imports of goods and services                  9.2       5.0       10.1       9.0
197949  1989-99       1998       1999   > Growth of exports and Imports I%)
(average annual growth)                                                             I
Agriculture                                     3.4      2.9        0.0       9.5
Industry                                       2.3       2.1       -1.3      -1.7
Manufacturing                                 1.9      1.1       -2.0      -0.7    20
Services                                        3.4      2.7        0.8       1.3
Private consumption                             1.9      5.8       -3.4       9.4      °             9s
General govemrnment consumption                6.4      -2.0        2.1      -9.3   I
Gross domestic investment                     -0.1       2.4        0.1      -6.9   |-201
Imports of goods and services                  -1.4     12.4        8.9     -17.4                   Exports    elmports
Gross national product                          2.9      2.2        0.0      -1.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
102



Brazil
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                              1979     1989      1998      1999      Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                         2,500
Consumer prices                                 ..1,430.7         2.7      8.6    2,000
Implicit GDP deflator                        56.5  1,322.5        3.9     11.3    1,50
Govemment finance                                                                   soo
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                   0
Current revenue                                          ..      20.4     21.9              94   95   96   97   98   99
Current budget balance                                  ..       -4.4     -5.2              -GDP deflator  -    CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..       ..       -5.5     -6.2
TRADE
TRADE mitliolls)1979                                  1989      1998      1999      Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions5)
Total exports (fob)                            ..  34,375      51,140   48,011     75.000
Coffee                                        ..   1,803      2,576     2,441
Soybeans                                      ..   3,647      4,755     3,784     0o000
Manufactures                                  ..  17,575    31,964    30,251
Total imports (cifl                            ..  18,264    57,733   49,219                      mliii
Food                                          ..   1,249      3,057     2,078    25,000bh
Fuel and energy                               ..   3,753      1,965     2,169
Capital goods                                 ..   4,873    25,283    21,157         o
Export price index (1995=100)                   ..      98        92        86
Import price! index (1995=100)                  ..      85        84        89                   * Exports    Sllmports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..      115       108        97
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979     1989      1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millbons)
Exports of Cioods and services             16,708   36,394    55,473    51,887     0
Imports of goods and services              2174 2,46          6,50      5,1
Resource balance                           -5,016   14,908   -14,177    -5,629    '1
Net income                                 -5,479  -13,265   -21,217   -20,786    -2
Net current transfers                           5  249  1,778  2,040   K                         IN"
Current account balance                   -10,490    1,892   -33,616   -24,375     4
Financing items (net)                       7,703   -7,087    16,331    13,634
Changes in net reserves                     2,787    5,195     17,285    10,741    .s
Memo:
Reserves iricluding gold (US$ millions)     9,045    7,672    43,971    35,725
Conversion rate (DEC, locaJ/US$)         9.79E-12  1.03E-6        1.1       1.3
EXTERNAL. DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       61,327  114,532   232,004  221,792
IBRD                                      1,790    8,311     6,298     6,822   |822
IDA                                           0        0         0         0                28841        10282
Total debt service                         11,310   14,122    47,887    73,694                                 9804
IBRD                                        234    1,475      1,373    1,380
IDA                                           0        0         0         0
Compositioin of net resource flows
Official grants                              10       44        97
Official creditors                          436      223      4,911    -1,077
Pnvate creditors                          5,236   -3,716    21,930   -15,796
Foreign direct investment                 2,419    1,267    31,913    26,916
Portfolio equity                              0        0       542     3,234
157433
World Bank program
Commitments                                 674      933      1,290    1,465     A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               302      819      1,240    1,533      B - IDA    D - Other multiateral   F - Pnvate
Principal repayments                         74     871        995       952     C-IMF                        G-Short-termn
Net flows                                   228      -52       245       580   1__
Interest payments                           160      604       378       428
Net transfers                                67    -656       -133       153
Development Economics                                                                                                8/25100
103



