Report No. PID10295
Project Name                     Brazil-First Programmatic Financial Sector...
Adjustment Loan
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Sector                           Financial Sector
Project ID                       BRPE70640
Borrower                         Federative Republic of Brazil
Implementing Agency              Central Bank of Brazil and Securities
Commission
Date this PID Prepared           May 8, 2001
Projected Board Date             May 24, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background.        The conditions and prospects for
sustainable poverty reduction in Brazil have further improved over the last
year. These improvements are in particular the result of: (i) successfully
continued fiscal reform; (ii) renewed growth; and (iii) an increased
Government effort to improve targeted social policies. In particular, reform
progress has been significant on fiscal balance, expenditure management, some
parts of social spending and financial sector reforms. The Government has
shown remarkable persistence and steadiness in its reform efforts in difficult
times.
2. Under the Program, World Bank support would become available to Brazil at a
strategic juncture that is unusually favorable to meaningful progress in
financial sector reform. This juncture is largely the result of a successful
process, initiated with the 1994 Real Plan, that has restored macroeconomic
stability--as evidenced by the impressive defeat of inflation--and forged
ahead with structural reforms. Macroeconomic stabilization endured and was
consolidated despite the severe financial turbulence that led to the exchange
rate crisis of early 1999, and this has resulted in considerable credibility
gains for economic policy and policy makers, both at home and abroad. The
associated reduction in the level and volatility of interest rates has created
conditions and favorable expectations for a deepening and broadening of
financial intermediation, and for a gradual move towards the lengthening of
maturities.
3. A window of opportunity now exists for the acceleration and consolidation
of financial sector reform. Timely and decisive World Bank financial and
knowledge support would help back-stop this process. Fortunately, the Bank is
in a privileged position to do so, for it has maintained an active and
fruitful dialogue on financial sector matters with the Brazilian authorities
over the past years, including importantly through technical assistance
lending to the Central Bank of Brazil (approved in 1997) and extensive
analytical financial sector work carried out mainly in 2000.
4. Project Objectives. The broad-based and comprehensive financial sector
reform program pursued by the authorities and supported by the Bank would
underpin economic growth, contribute to poverty reduction in the long run, and
avoid their reversal through financial crisis prevention. In addition to
reforms supported by the Bank's programmatic operations, the Government's
overall reform agenda includes politically difficult reforms such as
constitutional amendments needed to permit fundamental financial sector
legislation as well as developing strategies for federal bank reform. Its



effectiveness hinges crucially on the consolidation of price stability and
fiscal discipline, without which the benefits of the program would not be
realized.
5. Project Components. Actions supported by the proposed Loan focus on
reforms that already enjoy broad political support and are within the
implementation capacity of the executive branch. Thus, the programmatic subset
comprises:
a) Actions to raise efficiency in financial intermediation and broaden
access to financial services by: improving the infrastructure of credit
contract enforcement, debtor information, and the payments system;
fostering securities market development; removing obstacles that limit
the expansion of financial services to the under-served population; and
reducing government-imposed intermediation costs;
b) Reforms to enhance financial system transparency and the effectiveness
of regulation and supervision for both the banking system and securities
markets. These include: strengthening prudential norms and their
enforcement; rationalizing the division of responsibilities among
supervisory agencies; enhancing institutional capacity of the
supervisory agencies; upgrading disclosure and accounting standards; and
improving corporate governance for companies;
c) Steps to bolster defenses against financial crisis by: improving the
functionality of key components of the safety net--bank failure
resolution and deposit insurance system--and raising preparedness
through more effective contingency crisis planning.
6. The Bank's financial assistance under this programmatic lending would be
comprised of this First Loan, and one or two additional programmatic loans
subject to the progress in reform implementation. Programmatic lending is
proposed to be accompanied by a new technical assistance loan, now under
preparation (see PID of the Brazil Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan
dated April 26, 2001). The First Loan, in a proposed amount of US$404 .04
million would disburse soon after effectiveness, as supported policy actions
are expected to be met prior to Board presentation. The next programmatic loan
could disburse towards the first half of 2002. If there is a third loan, it
could disburse in the second half of 2002, or beyond.
7. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements.         Regular Bank missions
will review progress of the implementation of the proposed reforms and their
outcomes. The review will largely be based on the progress in implementing
the new companion TA loan components in support of future phases of reform
actions, monitoring indicators and the goals of the reforms and on the reform
direction and benchmarks contained in the Letter of Development Policy.
Executing agencies: The Central Bank of Brazil and Securities Commission would
be the executing agencies.
8. Project Sustainability.    In terms of the supported subset of reforms,
efficiency of intermediation will contribute to the depth of financial
intermediation provided by the private sector and broaden access to financial
services for the underbanked population. Banking system soundness measures
will contribute to sounder operations of both public and private banks,
improve the efficiency of bank exit processes, and strengthen the capacity to
prevent a crisis and to respond without improvisation once it effectively
occurs. The initiatives under payments and securities clearance and settlement
will reduce systemic risk and Central Bank exposure to risk of loss in the
settlement of payments, and bring about efficiency gains in the payment
system. In securities markets, it is expected that investors' demand for
securities will be increased, that gradually medium term finance will reach
-2 -



medium sized enterprises and that more effective capital market regulatory
structures will become a reality.
9. Poverty Category and Environmental Aspects.     Not applicable.
10. Program Objective Category.     Economic Management (EM)
11. Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Facsimile:    (202) 522-1500
Stefan Alber-Glanstatatten
Task Manager
202-473-1989
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending May 11, 2001.
- 3 -



