Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7053 - BR
Loan Agreement
(Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 22, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 7053 - BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 2001, between the FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter, dated April 23, 2001, from the 
Borrower:  (i) describing its macroeconomic framework and a program of actions, 
objectives and policies for the reform of its financial sector (the Program), which 
Program consists of actions that have already been taken to the satisfaction of the 
Bank, as described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (the First Phase of the Program), 
and actions and policies that the Borrower intends to take and adopt in the near 
future; (ii) declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the objectives of the Program; and 
(iii) requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the 
execution thereof;
(B)
the Borrower has maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory 
to the Bank; and
(C)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the First Phase of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower 
by making the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) as 
Page  2
hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans" of the Bank dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read:
"‘Project’ means the first phase of the program, referred to in the Preamble 
to the Loan Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.";
(b)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement 
and of these General Conditions.";
(c)
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(d)
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
first 
phase of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, 
the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations 
under 
the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.";  and
(e)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"CMN" means Conselho Monetário Nacional, the Borrower’s national monetary 
council;
(b)
"Central Bank" means Banco Central do Brasil, the Borrower's central 
bank; and
(c)
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to four hundred 
four million forty thousand Dollars ($404,040,000), as such amount may be converted 
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  3
Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02.  (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of three hundred 
ninety-nine million nine hundred ninety-nine thousand six hundred Dollars 
($399,999,600) from the Loan Account in support of the First Phase of the Program.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first 
request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in the Central 
Bank a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  
All withdrawals of the amount referred to in paragraph (a) above shall be deposited by 
the Bank into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Loan shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:  (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Bank shall so 
request, refund such amount to the Bank.  Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such 
request shall be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (a) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(b) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06.  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period, 
at the Variable Rate; provided that, upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay 
interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.
Section 2.07.  Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate 
to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate.
Page  4
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in Section 
2.01(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01.  The Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed 
action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of 
materially reversing the objectives of the First Phase of the Program, or any action 
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02.  Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four (4) months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy 
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account 
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Section 4.01.  The following event is specified as an additional condition to 
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators agreed between the Borrower and 
the Bank.
Section 4.02.  The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that this Agreement has been validly 
registered with the Central Bank.
Section 4.03.  The date August 22, 2001 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 5.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 5.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministério da Fazenda
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "P" - 8° andar
70048-900 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Page  5
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 412-1740
With copy to:
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5 andar
70040-906 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 225-4022
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the city of Brasília, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Pedro Sampaio Malan
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Antonio Rocha Magalhães
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1.
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
Page  6
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
   -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares (including 
set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party);
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories, or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or 
of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn 
as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by 
the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as 
of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.
Page  7
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
July 15, 2006
3.96%
January 15, 2007
3.96%
July 15, 2007
3.96%
January 15, 2008
3.96%
July 15, 2008
3.96%
January 15, 2009
6.44%
July 15, 2009
6.44%
January 15, 2010
6.44%
July 15, 2010
6.44%
January 15, 2011
6.44%
July 15, 2011
6.44%
January 15, 2012
     13.37%
July 15, 2012
     13,36%
January 15, 2013
     14,82%
2.
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the 
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all 
remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after 
such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the 
Loan to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that 
shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either:  (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank 
under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank 
so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate 
component of the Screen Rate.
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
SCHEDULE 3
Page  8
First Phase of the Program
1.
The following actions have been taken for the reduction of high financial 
intermediation spreads in Brazil:
(a)
improvement in quality and quantity of information on debtors available 
to the market, through the strengthening of the Central Bank’s credit risk center; and
(b)
actions to improve credit contract enforcement:  (i) creation of a new 
lending instrument (Cédula de Crédito Bancário), pursuant to Medida Provisória No. 
1925, of October 15, 1999, which eliminates any disputes on the amount of interest and 
other charges on debt represented by such instrument, and provides for speedier 
judicial enforcement procedures; and (ii) submission by the Borrower’s Executive 
Branch to the Borrower’s Congress of proposal No. 4376/93 for an amendment of 
Decreto-lei No. 7661/45 (the Bankruptcy Law).
2.
The following actions have been taken to broaden the access to financial 
services of the under-served population:
(a)
authorization, pursuant to CMN’s Resolution No. 2707/00, for banks to 
increase accessibility to financial services by using locations other than bank 
branches, such as post offices, supermarkets, and lottery establishments; and
(b)
easing, pursuant to CMN Resolution No. 2771/00, of requirements for 
membership in credit cooperatives.
3.
The following actions have been taken to strengthen bank supervision and 
regulation:
(a)
introduction, pursuant to CMN Resolutions No. 2723/00 and 2743/00, of 
consolidated supervision of financial conglomerates, including on-site examinations of 
Brazilian bank branches abroad;
(b)
strengthening, pursuant to CMN Resolutions No. 2099/94, 2212/95, 2606/99, 
2607/99, 2792/00 and 2815/01, of capital adequacy standards, including, inter alia, 
increase from 8 to 11 percent capital requirement for credit risk, introduction of 
capital requirements for market risk, establishment of limits on deferred tax assets 
that can count as capital, and increase in capital requirements to encourage 
divestiture of shares in non-financial enterprises;
(c)
creation, pursuant to CMN Resolutions No. 2682/99, 2697/00, 2724/00 and 
2788/00, of a sound system of asset classification that supports more rigorous 
provisioning rules;
(d)
major organizational streamlining and capacity building for on- and 
off-site supervisory functions, pursuant to Decisions (Votos) 413/99 and 186/00 of the 
Central Bank’s Board of Directors;
(e)
achievement of progress in the formulation of a manual containing 
guidelines for bank inspectors to carry out bank supervision; and
(f)
receipt by the Central Bank of proposals from consultants vying to be 
selected to assist the Central Bank in developing a bank rating system.
4.
A review program of the bank exit framework and role of deposit insurance has 
been initiated.
5.
The Central Bank has decided to develop a bank crisis contingency plan, and a 
work program has been initiated to implement such plan.
6.
A reform program, authorized pursuant to Medidas Provisórias No. 2008/99, 
2040/00 and 2115/00 and Lei No. 10214, of March 27, 2001, has been launched to:  (i) 
reduce systemic risk and the Central Bank’s exposure to loss in the settlement of bank 
payments; and (ii) ensure the prudent management of residual risks by private 
Page  9
participants in the bank clearing process, including securities clearance and 
settlement.
7.
Proposal No. 3115/1997 has been submitted to the Borrower’s Congress to amend 
Lei No. 6404, of December 15, 1976 (as amended by Lei No. 9457, of May 5, 1997) (the 
Corporate Law) and Lei No. 6385, of December 7, 1976, which created Comissão de 
Valores Mobiliários, the Borrower’s securities and exchange commission.
8.
The following measures have been taken to promote good governance practices in 
public companies (companhias abertas), concerning mainly the protection of minority 
shareholders' rights: (a) the São Paulo stock exchange (BOVESPA), pursuant to its 
Board Resolutions No. 264, 265 and 266, of December 1, 2000 (publicly announced on 
December 11, 2000), established a separate market for the negotiation of securities 
issued by companies which have adopted such practices; (b) BNDES Participações S.A. 
(BNDESPAR), pursuant to a Board Resolution dated October 23, 2000, approved a program 
for equity participation by BNDESPAR in such companies; and (c) CMN, through its 
Resolution No. 2829, of March 30, 2001, approved the regulations for investments of 
funds by private closed-end pension funds (entidades fechadas de previdencia privada), 
which, inter alia, established thresholds for investments in such companies higher 
than those established for investments in other companies.
9.
Comissão de Valores Mobiliários has issued Instructions No. 302 through 306, on 
May 5, 1999, to enhance information disclosure of equity mutual funds and protection 
of investors in such funds.
