Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15473-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
may 16, 1996
Rural and Social Development Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 1, 1996)
Currency Name: Renminbi
Currency unit = Yuan (Y) = 100 Fen
$1.00 =Y8.3
$0.121 = Y 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CEP   - Chinese Expert Panel
FILO   - Foreign Investment and Loan Office
ICB    - International Competitive Bidding
LGCC - Local Government Coordinating Committee
MOF  - Ministry of Finance
MOL  - Ministry of Labor
NCB   - National Competitive Bidding
NPSC - National Project Steering Committee
PEdC - Provincial Education Commission
PHRD - Policy and Human Resource Development Fund
PIP    - Project Implementation Plan
PPAC - Provincial Project Advisory Committee
PPIO - Provincial Project Implementation Office
SAA   - State Audit Administration
SEdC - State Education Commission
SGB   - School Governing Board
SIAC - School Industrial Advisory Committee
SOE   - State-owned Enterprise
SPC   - State Planning Commission
SPPIO - School Project Planning and Implementation Office
STS   - Secondary Technical School
SVS   - Secondary Vocational School
SWS   - Skilled Workers School
TTC   - Technical Teacher Training College
TTD   - Technical Teacher Training Department
VTE   - Vocational and Technical Education
VED   - Vocational Education Department of the State Education Commission



CHINA
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT
CREDIT/LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                People's Republic of China
Implementing Agencies/   State Education Commission
Beneficiaries:           Provinces of Guangdong, Jiangsu, Liaoning, and Shandong
Municipality of Tianjin
Poverty:                 Not applicable.
Amount:                  Credit: SDR 13.8 million ($20 million equivalent).
Loan:  $10.0 million equivalent.
Terms:                   Credit: Standard IDA, with 35 years maturity including 10
years of grace.
Loan:  20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate for currency pool
loans.
Commitment Fee:          Credit: Standard
Loan:  0.75  percent on  undisbursed  loan  balances,
beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:          See Table. 3.3
Net Present Value:       Not applicable.
Map:                     IBRD 27782
Project ID Number:       CN-PE-3635






CONTENTS
1. VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION IN CHINA ........... .................1
A. Economic Growth in China and Labor Demand .1
B. Implications for Vocational Training           .2
C. China's System of Vocational and Technical Education    .2
D. Bank Group Experience with VTE and Lessons Learned      .8
2. PROJECT DESIGN AND PREPARATION l              l .              . .11
A. Introduction .                                                    1
B. rssues in Project Design .1
C. Rationale for Bank Group Involvement .13
3. THE PROJECT ..........................                                 14
A. Project Objectives .14
B. Project Monitoring .14
C. Project Description .15
D. Project Costs and Financing .20
E. Procurement .22
F. Disbursements .24
G. Accounts and Audit .                                             24
H. Project Management and Implementation .25
I. Supervision .28
J. Environmental Impact .28
4. BENEFITS AND RISKS                    ................                .. 29
A. Benefits .29
B. Risks .32
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................. ................. 33
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited China in January
1996 comprising: Jan Segerstrom (EA2RS, Task Manager), Dingyong Hou (EA2RS),
Gordon Hunting, Martin Godfrey, Bo Dahlborg, Rene Welter and Wenjin Wang
(Consultants). Peer reviewers were Van Adams (AFTHR), Josephine Hykin (ASTHR),
and Richard Skolnik (SA2PH). The Managing Division Chief is Joseph Goldberg and
the Department Director is Nicholas C. Hope.



- ii -
ANNEXES
Annex  1:   Key Performance Indicators ......................................................                                   35
Annex 2: Some Economic Aspects of Vocational Education and Training in
Project Provinces ......................................................                                       36
Annex 3: Project Implementation Schedule and Procurement Schedule ........................ 46
Annex 4:   Detailed Cost Tables ......................................................                                          48
Annex  5:   Project Implementation Chart ......................................................                                 54
Annex  6:   Organization Chart ......................................................                                           55
Annex  7:   Indicative Supervision Plan ......................................................                                  56
Annex  8:   Disbursement Schedule ......................................................                                        58
Annex 9: Technical Assistance and Staff Training Terms of Reference and
Training Programs ......................................................                                       59
Annex 10: Report on a Tracer Study of Graduates from Secondary Vocational
- and Technical Schools, January  1994 ......................................................                      69
Annex  11: Selected Documents in the Project File                                  ...................................... 81
TABLES IN TEXT
Table  1.1: Profile of Senior Secondary Education in China ............................................... 3
Table 3.1: Project Cost Summary by Component ......................................................                              20
Table 3.2: Project Cost by Expenditure Category ......................................................                           21
Table 3.3:  Financing Plan ......................................................                                              21
Table 3.4: Procurement Arrangements ......................................................                                     22
Table 3.5: Allocation of Implementation Responsibilities ............................................... 26
MA7P
IBRD 27782



1. VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION IN CHINA
A. ECONOMIC GROWTH IN CHINA AND LABOR DEMAND
1.1   China's transition from central planning to markets is taking place against a
background of extraordinarily fast economic growth. Over the 1986-94 period, real
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) increased at an annual average rate of almost 10 percent.
Currently, with double-digit growth again in 1995, China is the fastest growing economy
in Asia, the world's fastest growing region. Growth is particularly rapid in the industry
and services sectors. Industry accounted for 47 percent of GDP in 1994, compared with
42 percent in 1990, and over the same period the share of the services sector rose from 31
to 32 percent.
1.2   Within industry, there is a shift towards internationally competitive, higher-
quality and more technologically advanced products, reflecting increased exposure to
international markets. Total merchandise export earnings were $121 billion in 1994,
double their level of only three years earlier. The product and market structure of exports
has been transformed. Manufactured goods accounted for 84 percent of merchandise
export earnings in 1994, compared with 49 percent nine years earlier. About 30 percent
of export earnings now comes from light industry: exports of electronics products alone
were worth $8 billion in 1993, 18 percent more than a year earlier, and electronics
accounted for over 5 percent of the value of industrial output.
1.3    Within the services sector, high-technology branches are growing particularly
fast: in 1993, for example, the number of enterprises offering scientific, research and
technological services was 85 percent higher than a year earlier.
1.4   A significant factor in the increased competitiveness of the economy has been the
sharp rise in foreign direct investment inflows, principally to the manufacturing and real
estate sectors. Gross foreign direct irwestment inflows grew from virtually nothing in
1980 to $34 billion in 1994, and now account for almost half of all such flows to
developing countries.
1.5   Growth and structural change in the economy are reflected in the pattern of labor
use. The share of the service sector in total employment rose from 18 to 23 percent
between 1989 and 1994 while that of industry rose from 22 to 23 percent. During the
same period, agriculture's share in employment fell from 60 to 54 percent. Compared
with other advanced developing countries, China still has an unusually large proportion
of its workforce in the agricultural sector, but the structure is changing rapidly.
1.6   The open unemployment rate is very small, reportedly only 2.6 percent in urban
areas, and in the faster-growing regions, enterprises report shortages of labor, particularly



- 2 -
skilled labor. Real average wages rose at an annual average rate of almost 7 percent
between 1989 and 1994. However, state enterprises still contain large reserves of surplus
labor and productivity is low. Moreover, productivity increases in agriculture have
rendered a large number of rural workers redundant.
B. IMPLICATIONS FOR VOCATIONAL TRAINING
1.7   The rapid growth and structural change of China's economy, coupled with reform
of its State-Owned Enterprises (SOEs), are placing major new demands on the skills and
capabilities of its labor force and, hence, on the country's educational and training
system. Chinese industrial and manufacturing outputs are increasingly geared to the
export market, requiring higher quality and more technologically advanced products. The
previously underdeveloped services sector, now expanding with particular speed,
includes an increasing number of enterprises offering scientific, research and
technological services. All this has created significant demand for well-trained technical
staff, who have acquired their skills through preservice and inservice training. In 1993,
an estimated one in 15 industrial workers was recruited during the past year; in the
services sector, the ratio was probably one in ten. Inplant training alone is insufficient to
cope with new recruits on this scale. At the same time, the industrial restructuring
accompanying SOE reform, with the aim of creating more efficient and competitive
enterprises, has major implications for worker training. As SOEs commercialize by, inter
alia, shedding the 15 percent of their labor force (some 17 million people) that are
redundant and demanding higher skills of the staff who remain, workers will need
retraining to improve or acquire skills sought by the emerging market economy.
Development of China's labor market, structural change in the economy, and reform of
its uncompetitive and loss-making SOEs are therefore partly dependent on having an
efficient, market-responsive skills training system.
C. CHINA'S SYSTEM OF VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION
1.8    As shown in Table 1.1, about half of all senior secondary school students attend
vocational and technical (VTE) schools, making this a highly important part of China's
educational system. The prominence given to VTE results from educational system
reforms first articulated in 1985 and iriiroduced in 1987. These reforms were aimed at
equipping about half of all secondary school graduates with practical job skills, and the
remaining half, who attend general secondary schools, for general employment and for
further education. In addition to enrollments in full-time courses of two, three and four
years' duration, the VTE secondary schools have substantial enrollment in short courses
for inservice training and for specialist preemployment training.



- 3 -
ITABLE 1.1: PROFILE OF SENIOR SECONDARY EDUCATION IN CHINA
General
Data (1994)           STS         SVS         SWS        Secondary     Total
Number of Schools      3,987       10,217       4,430      14,242      32,876
Student Intake      1,225,000    1,468,000    714,000    2,434,000    5,841,000
Enrollment          3,198,000    3,426,000    1,871,000    6,649,000   15,144,000
Graduates            503,500      938,200     496,500    2,093,021    4,031,221
Source: China: Education Statistical Yearbook 1995.
1.9   VTE is provided by both the State Education Commission (SEdC), in charge of
Secondary Technical and Vocational Schools (STSs and SVSs) that provide mainly
preservice training, and the Ministry of Labor (MOL), which oversees Skilled Workers
Schools (SWS), providing training at secondary level. The STSs are largely engineering
trade schools responsible to the relevant technical bureaus. A decreasing portion, now
about 60 percent of their graduates, are assigned to jobs by the local government; the
balance find employment on their own. The SVSs are for the most part managed and
financed by local education bureaus. SVS graduates find their own employment in the
emerging labor market. Finally, SWSs are managed by local labor bureaus, technical
bureaus and enterprises. The recently approved Bank Group supported Labor Market
Development Project (Ln. 3967/Cr. 2800-CHA) focuses partially on inservice training;
more detailed information on that segment of the VTE system is provided in the related
Staff Appraisal Report (No. 14602-CHA).   The proposed project supports a
complementary effort for SEdC schools.
1.10  Links with employers are strong, particularly for STSs and SWSs because of their
cooperation with technical bureaus and SOEs. The labor market is only now emerging,
and, although the central assignment of graduates from STSs and SWSs to jobs in SOEs
is being abolished, students who are sponsored by SOEs and local governments are
committed to employment under terms of agreements that are often between the school
and the enterprise or local government. It is reported, however, that opportunities for
graduates to choose their employers are increasing. There are also high proportions of
fee-paying students in STSs and SVSs who are not committed to any employer.
Employment of VTE graduates in the rapidly developing, particularly coastal, provinces
is high, with the schools unable to satisfy the demand of employers for the numbers of
new employees required.
1.11   Since 1980, there has been a dramatic increase in the volume and proportion of
VTE students. Enrollments in STSs increased from 1.24 million in 1980 to 3.2 million in
1994, an average annual increase of about 10 percent. SWS enrollments went from 0.7
million to 1.87 million, increasing again at about 10 percent a year, and SVSs grew from
0.45 million in 1980 to 4.06 million in 1994, expanding at some 17 percent annually.
From 1980 to 1994, the enrollment in general senior secondary schools dropped by 2.3
percent a year from about 9.7 million to 6.65 million, due to the conversion of general



- 4 -
secondary schools into vocational schools. In terms of growth, the SVSs are clearly the
most dynamic type of schools, reflecting the local government's responsibility for their
development and freedom from the constraint on STSs and SWSs of admitting assigned
students for guaranteed employment.
1.12  The reorientation of vocational education enrollment to the service sectors may
accurately reflect employment needs, but also the low capital cost of mounting
nontechnical courses. While surveys of selected areas indicate that graduates of SVS
programs have found employment in new, emerging enterprises, an effective system is
needed to monitor labor market trends to ensure that enrollments are adjusted to demand.
With an estimated net annual growth rate of employment of 2 percent in China, total
employment of 615 million in 1994, and a net annual increase of 12 million jobs, the 2
million VTE graduates annually represent a relatively large proportion (17 percent) of
new job applicants. Hence, a slowdown in economic and employment growth could lead
to a mism.atch of skills and unemployment among graduates. An improved labor market
information system will be tested under the Labor Market Development Project, and
school-level systems for this purpose would be introduced under the proposed project.
1.13  Private higher and secondary-level VTE has been officially encouraged since
1993. Based on information provided in a 1994 SEdC report, about 2.5 percent of SVS
enrollment was in private institutions, mainly in urban areas.
1.14  Gender differentiation does not appear to be a serious issue in VTE. Both SEdC
and MOL guidelines specify that males and females be recruited and enrolled on equal
terms, on merit, and without fixed ratios. Data indicate that females comprise close to 50
percent of total enrollments in STSs and SVSs. The female graduates would not be
expected to encounter gender-based discrimination in hiring since Chinese society
encourages women to participate equally with men in all employment fields.
Regulatory Framework for Vocational Education
1.15  Overall policy and strategy for VTE is set by the SEdC, while the main
responsibility for management of the system rests with the provincial, county/city and
district level governments. SEdC employs a number of tools to implement policy,
including: (a) the setting of broad targets, such as the proportion of senior secondary
students to be enrolled in VTE; (b) provision of standards for staffing, including numbers,
qualifications and experience; (c) preparation and publication of guidelines for curricula
for the main subjects, standard lists of practical exercises to be performed and lists of
equipment to be provided in each specialization; and, most notably, (d) targets for the
establishment of key schools at local, provincial and national levels, with criteria to be
met for the adequacy and quality of facilities, staffing numbers and qualifications, etc.
Provincial and local governments and the schools appear to give very high status to
recognition of a school as a key school, particularly at the national level. This encourages
investment and development to meet the criteria. SEdC provides only limited funding;
however, it does control indirect funding from international bodies like the World Bank.



- 5 -
The proposed project would support development of 82 local-level key schools, with the
aim of their becoming provincial or national key schools.
1.16  SEdC controls the development of vocational education through issuance of
regulations and guidelines. A vocational education law is expected to be enacted in 1996,
which would be expected to establish the framework for a comprehensive vocational
education system, embracing: clear responsibilities for funding; encouragement to
enterprises to give more attention to training; raising quality of VTE; establishing a
national system of occupational classification and skills standards; and improving
schools' linkages with government departments and enterprises. The law would be
expected to also include penalties for violation.
1.17  Assessment and certification of trainees' competencies is currently carried out
through a system of double qualification, combining a trades skills test administered by
MOL and a technical certificate awarded by a vocational school on the basis of a school
examination. The National Vocational Skills Testing and Guidance Center is being
strengthened and skills testing centers are being established in selected municipalities
under the Labor Market Development Project.
System Financing and Costs
1.18  VTE schools have various sources of financing. While capital costs are normally
provided by local governments, a survey of schools to be included in the proposed
project, representing institutions that already have fairly high standards, indicates that the
schoois obtain an average of about 53 percent of their current funding from government
through a variety of agencies, almost entirely provincial and subprovincial, 14 percent
from enterprises, 24 percent from tuition fees, and 9 percent from their own production
activities (Annex2). SVSs, which obtain only 48 percent of their current finance from
government, get 28 percent from tuition fees, while STSs are more reliant on government
funding (59 percent) but also attract a higher proportion from enterprises (17 percent).
Cost recovery for nonacademic specializations is high.
1.19  The same survey gathered data on school costs. Unit recurrent costs for 1993/94
averaged Y 2,540 per year per student for-STSs, Y 1,590 for SVS, and Y 1,574 for SWSs.
Capital expenditures in 1993/94 averaged about Y 2,100 per student. Most of this
investment was for buildings. The average expenditure on equipment was only about
Y 300 per student. Since appropriate equipment is crucial to better quality and expanded
areas of technical training, equipment comprises a large part of the proposed project's
inputs, and it is estimated that the project investment for equipment would amount to an
average of Y 1I.100 per student per year for project schools.
System Strengths and Weaknesses
1.20  Strengths. The current VTE system has strengths and weaknesses. On the
positive side, its external efficiency appears high compared to the situation in most
developing countries.  Almost two thirds of schools obtain regular advice from



- 6 -
employers, usually through their membership in school management and/or advisory
committees, and links with non-SOEs are increasing. In the proposed project provinces,
graduates obtain employment immediately after graduation, and employers, who sponsor
a substantial proportion of students, report a demand for more graduates than they are
able to obtain. A tracer study carried out in 1993, as part of project preparation, found
that the proportion of graduates (three cohorts out of school for a year or more) who had
been promoted or changed jobs was unusually high, and that earnings compared
favorably with national averages.
1.21   The availability of school-based employment information is also better than in
many countries. Secondary VTE schools in China regularly collect a great deal of
information about their graduates. Questionnaires are either sent to enterprises, and filled
in by the graduates/employees themselves and/or by their supervisors, or adrministered by
interview.  Qucstions cover employers' assessments of the skills and attitudes of
graduates and advice to the school, graduates' assessments of the relevance of their
training, and the extent to which they are working in the occupations for which they have
been trained. Response rates are very high, between 95 and 100 percent. The results are
taken seriously by the schools in deciding on changes in courses, curricula and syllabi.
This current practice is an excellent basis for the expansion and further development of a
school-based labor market information system adapted to a reforned labor market in
which graduates find jobs through other means than government allocation.
1.22   Weaknesses. While external efficiency is good, internal efficiency of the VTE
system is far less satisfactory. Improvements are needed in the qualifications of teaching
staff and school managers, training programs and instructional methods, and physical
facilities (buildings and equipment for laboratories and workshops). Adequate utilization
of staff and physical resources is impeded by low school enrollments, too few part-time
and short courses, and low teaching hours per week. In addition, links between schools
and prospective employers should be further strengthened, with the aim not only of
making training programs responsive to market signals but also to attract more financing
of training equipment and other inputs needed for more technically sophisticated training
geared to emerging industrial needs. With respect to teaching staff, the majoritv lacks
industrial experience and also relevant technical skills. In many cases, teaching methods,
particularly in terms of practical applications, are outmoded and in urgent need of
upgrading. Teacher recruitment does not seem to present a problem, indicating that
teachers' salaries and working conditions are competitive.
1.23   Government policy calls for the introduction of competency-based and modular
programs. However, this has not been fully implemented, and established courses need to
be substantially updated to suit the needs of modern industry.
1.24  Instructor training at Technical Teacher Training Colleges (TTCs) and
Technical Teacher Training Departments (TTDs) of universities also needs upgrading.
Training programs are typically for four years, and entrance to the schools requires
completion of senior secondary school. Although past recruitment to the programs was



- 7 -
almost exclusively from academic schools, Government policy now requires an
increasing portion of the new recruits to have secondary technical school qualification.
However, curricula are theory-oriented and do not sufficiently emphasize practical topics
and the integration between theory and practice. Nor do they include the necessary
elements of teaching practice and industrial practice in support of other subjects. Trainers
also have been recruited based on academic merit rather than industrial experience,
practical skills and technical teaching experience.  As regards inservice instructor
training, some programs are offered at the TTCs and TTDs, but only a few of the key
schools get involved in these activities. As many schools have the necessary equipment
and sometimes potential trainers, it would be advisable to offer pedagogical and practical
skills programs at this level to enhance the teaching skills of the large majority of less
qualified instructors.
1.25  Improved integration of SEdC and MOL is needed at the central level and to a
lesser extent at the provincial and municipal levels. In the long term, when the labor
market has developed and needs have stabilized, some rationalization of the SEdC and
MOL VTE systems would be advisable. However, at this stage in China's development
process, the urgent need for better preservice training to meet the demand for technical
and service sector staff, as well as stepped up inservice training to accompany enterprise
reform make it advisable to retain and improve the capacities of both systems to serve
their particular segments of the VTE sector, albeit with an enhanced dialog on major
policy issues.
Government Policy for Vocational Education
1.26 The Government's goals for VTE include the reform of the system to
accommodate the needs of structural reform and development of the labor market, to
respond to the needs for both inservice and preemployment VTE, and to serve the tertiary
sector and private enterprise. In line with these goals, SEdC's policy for reform
addresses the key sectoral issues discussed earlier. Having achieved a balance between
general and vocational education, SEdC is now pursuing the following reforms:
(a) continued decentralization of school management to the local authorities and to the
schools to encourage a flexible response to changing demand for training, and
encouragement of greater participatioirof enterprises in the operations of the schools,
including increasing their contribution to the financing of training; (b) establishment of
flexible training programs and school-run admission policies to meet employment needs;
(c) abolition of the job assignment system, replacing it with an effective job placement
system for school graduates; (d) establishment of a network of relatively large, efficient,
broad-based key or model schools, based on the combination or replacement of groups of
existing small specialist schools; and (e) upgrading of the quality of the model schools,
and ultimately the system, by providing adequate equipment and a better teaching staff
Implementation of reform also translates into a need for curriculum development to
ensure that training programs meet the skill needs of industry, and improved instructor
training so that VTE teachers are better equipped in terms of their industrial experience,
up-to-date subject matter knowledge and relevant pedagogical skills. Through continued



-8 -
decentralization of responsibility, school principals and managers will be in a better
position to utilize available resources efficiently and to strengthen linkages with
employers so that programs meeting immediate demands for skills are prioritized.
1.27  These reforms appear to be well under way, as indicated by the results of surveys
and tracer studies of selected schools in Beijing and the Provinces of Jiangsu, Hebei and
Shandong for the period 1987/8-1992/3. The progress of reform is indicated by improved
training delivery systems, formation of large schools from clusters of small schools to
realize economies of scale, and increased decentralization of management
responsibilities, linkages with industry, and cost recovery through tuition fees and
enterprise contracts. In some schools, as many as a third of 1992 graduates were
sponsored by enterprises, and most graduates found jobs by means other than allocation.
The proportion obtaining lifetime employment has dwindled (to 16 percent of graduates
included in the tracer studies), and contracts are now the predominant hiring arrangement,
particularly  for SVS  graduates.   The proportion  finding jobs in government
administration and state enterprises was still high (69 percent) but falling; however,
considering the vastly increased number of joint ventures since the time of this study, the
number of graduates employed in nongovemment enterprises is now very likely much
higher. This success notwithstanding, the scope of the VTE system, the rapidly
expanding demand for skilled labor, and the rapid transformation in training needs
require continuing reform initiatives.
D. BANK GROUP EXPERIENCE WITH VTE AND LESSONS LEARNED
1.28   Worldwide experience of vocational education and training in developing
countries was extensively studied and evaluated during the preparation of the Bank's
Policy Paper on Training.' While experience from specific groups of countries may be of
particular interest, as discussed below, the conclusions and recommendations of the
Policy Paper continue to provide the main policy considerations and options relevant to
reform VTE, particularly preemployment training for youth, which is the main focus of
the proposed project.
1.29  The main thrusts of reform as proposed in the Policy Paper are as follows:
(a) introducing market-oriented planning of training by using labor market signals rather
than manpower forecasting; (b) mobilizing employer and private training and ensuring
that training providers can compete under conditions which are fair to both private and
public providers; and (c) making public training more responsive and efficient, and
diversifying sources of funding for publicly provided training. These policy directions
have been fully considered in the design of the proposed project, taking into account the
specific institutional and economic situation in China.
l Vocational and Technical Education and Training. A World Bank Policy Paper (1991).



-9-
1.30 The project also responds to lessons learned from previous Bank Group-assisted
VTE projects implemented worldwide. Projects in Ecuador, Egypt and Mexico (see
SecM94-0754, SecM95-0239, and SecM92-0117) highlight the need for strong links
between VTE institutions and local employers to ensure the responsiveness of training
supply to demand. The proposed project meets this criterion by being based on
individual school plans developed in consultation with local enterprise representatives.
Project support to the ongoing decentralization of China's VTE system is in line with a
lesson learned in Egypt and Morocco (SecM95-0922)-that decentralization of training
responsibility is one of the main ingredients for a flexible, responsive training system.
The value of tracer studies, a lesson from our experience in Mexico, is also incorporated
in the project, which would improve the monitoring and evaluation systems of
participating schools with the intention, among others, of tracking trainees in their job
performance.
1.31  Lessons have also been learned from the previous Bank Group-supported VTE
project in China (Cr. 2114-CHA), which is scheduled to close at end-1996. The previous
project assisted the development of about 60 SEdC and MOL secondary VTE schools in
selected provinces, to act as models for fiurther development, by providing facilities and
equipment, improving teaching materials and providing staff training and technical
assistance. Implementation has been largely as envisioned, and a 1995 review of the
project by SEdC highlighted some of the project's positive results. Internal efficiencies
of the schools improved, with higher student-teacher ratios and increased enrollments.
Sixteen of the schools have been designated as "national key schools." School financing
also diversified as a result of substantially increased income from tuition and school-
owned enterprises. The schools' external efficiency also seems to have improved,
judging from the increased fee income which can be regarded as a proxy for market
success. On the negative side, the schools found some training and technical assistance
offered under the project to lack relevance, and the project's goal of improving overall
programs in schools spread throughout 17 provinces was overambitious. A more focused
approach, in terms of both geographical coverage and subject areas, would have been
preferable.  The proposed project incorporates these lessons, and builds on the
achievements of its predecessor. Technical assistance and training under the project
would be delivered in a way that is preferred by the Borrower, that is, through a twinning
arrangement with leading VTE institutions in Singapore, which has one of the most
efficient VTE systems worldwide. This arrangement brings down costs, obviates the
need for language training, and is perceived as being highly relevant to the Chinese
context. In addition, school improvements would be targeted at only five geographic
areas and to selected specializations for which demand is strong and potential financing
sources for the specializations promise to be robust.
1.32  In addition, experience gained outside Bank Group projects has been noted,
particularly that from other Asian economies, considered more relevant than Eastern
Europe and the former Soviet Union, which have been grappling with severe economic
recession and widespread unemployment. The rapid industrial development which has
taken place in Asia in the past 15 years has, without exception, been supported by well-



-10-
functioning and integrated vocational training systems. In the cases of Singapore, Korea
and Hong Kong, the close linkage between the VTE system and employers in industry
has contributed greatly to rapid development and quality improvement. China's best
policy is to follow the same route, and it could clearly benefit from drawing extensively
and in detail on the experience of those nearby countries.



2. PROJECT DESIGN AND PREPARATION
A. INTRODUCTION
2.1   As is typical of all economic and social reform efforts in China, changes in
China's VTE system are being introduced gradually, and only after extensive piloting of
new measures. The Bank has been assisting the pilot efforts through the previous VTE
project, the proposed project focused on SEdC, and the recently approved Labor Market
Development Project, supporting MOL in testing the impact on labor market
development and labor mobility of improved employment and training services and an
enhanced policy and legal framework for workers and employers. The proposed project
would be a pilot program to complement the latter effort by testing the impact on training
efficiency and effectiveness of improved curricula, teacher training and a package of
institutional and management improvements in what is still the main conduit for VTE
training, the SEdC-run secondary schools. Since the existing system's links with industry
are now often with SOEs, the project would also help the SEdC schools forge new ties
with additional nonstate enterprises and develop new skills training programs for the
nonstate sector.
2.2   The project aims to improve the management of the participating institutions,
including the setting up of mechanisms to obtain and use labor market signals in the
running and fine-tuning of programs, improving links with industry, increasing income
from sources other than education budget allocations, and devolution of responsibility to
the schools under clearly defined terms of accountability.  Within the selected
specializations, which cover both manufacturing and services sectors, there would be a
program of curriculum development, with a modular structure and competency-based
course system.
B. ISSUES IN PROJECT DESIGN
2.3   The proposed project is consistent with economic principles and equity
considerations. It does not jeopardize the growth of emerging, privately operated VTE
institutions; it complements employers' training efforts; and it will indirectly increase
demand for less skilled workers by contributing to enterprise growth.
Level Playing Field
2.4   Government intervention in training usually has to be justified by the
identification of market failures of one kind or another. In China, the context is very
different: it is not so much that the market is failing as that it does not yet exist. The
question then becomes whether to move towards markets by building on what already
exists or by destroying and replacing it. The logic of this project is to build on what



- 12-
already exists, reforming the public VTE system, which is large, experienced and linked
to enterprises, so that it can become self-supporting and responsive. At the same time,
the aim is to avoid crowding out the private training institutions which are beginning to
emerge in the larger cities but are still few, weak, and mainly confined to quick-profit,
low-investment and short-course specializations. A level playing field in this context
does not imply a complete absence of subsidy to secondary vocational and technical
schools: the general-education part of the curriculum is still a proper state function. The
schools are already raising 42 percent of their current funding excluding production
income and expenditure from nongovernment sources; hence the playing field is very
nearly level and it will become more so during the course of this project.
Precareer vs. Employer Training
2.5   The public VTE system has a high share in precareer training and China's special
situation in this respect has to be recognized. Extraordinarily fast growth, together with
structural change and upgrading of technology and product quality, means that vast
numbers of new skilled workers are demanded each year. Inplant training alone is unable
to cope with imparting skills to new recruits on this scale; it needs to be supplemented by
offplant, precareer training. In any case, as full cost recovery for VTE courses becomes
the norm, enterprises will be able to choose between precareer and inplant training on
rational cost/benefit grounds.
Training and Equity
2.6    A condition for obtaining a high rate of return on investment in training is that
demand for trained persons should be high. This is the logic behind locating the
proposed training project in five of the country's highest-income and fastest-growing
areas. This, almost by definition, implies that the project will not be an instrument for
direct improvement of equity. The impact of the training on equity will be indirect. By
relieving skill constraints to expansion of higher-quality output and exports, it will
generate increased demand for less skilled workers also. As already emphasized, China is
still a surplus-labor economy. The boom in the coastal provinces is based primarily on
labor released from rural areas, often from beyond those provinces' borders.  For
instance, nonagricultural employment In Shandong and Guangdong grew at an annual
average rate of 5 percent and 7 percent, respectively, between 1989 and 1994, to the
benefit of millions of unskilled recruits from poorer families. One effect of the project
will be to make a small contribution to the continuation of this process.
Project Preparation and Stakeholder Participation
2.7   The project was prepared by the Government with Bank Group assistance using a
bottom-up approach with emphasis on participation from candidate provinces, local
government administrations and schools. Project provinces were selected using criteria
focusing on the -presence of rapid industrialization, employment-driven demand, and
commitment to plan and manage the reform of vocational education. Information on the
areas selected, the Provinces of Guangdong, Jiangsu, Liaoning and Shandong and Tianjin



- 13 -
Municipality, is provided in Annex 2. Selection of participating schools and institutions
was the responsibility of the provinces based on agreed criteria including: (a) registration
as local-level key schools, (b) potential to meet local labor market needs, (c) existing
enrollment of at least 1,000 students with plans to increase to about 2,000 over five years,
(d) reasonable teaching conditions and competent management, and (e) demonstrated
potential to meet project objectives and to support sustainable development beyond the
duration of the project.
2.8   Each potential project school prepared a development plan covering: (a) baseline
data on students, teachers, courses, and facilities; management, expenditure and
financing, linkages with industry, and employment outcomes of courses; (b) plans for
development over the next five years guided by the agreed reform agenda, including new
courses, additional facilities to be acquired, proposed management development, staff
development and training requirements; and (c) the implications for capital investment
and recurrent costs. About 25 percent of the 82 project schools were visited by the
preappraisal mission for detailed evaluation of their plans, and subsequently the
Provincial Education Commissions and SEdC revised and consolidated the plans to
provide the basis for project design in the form of a Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
The preparation was financed by a grant from the Governrment of Japan. The PIP and
development plans for all project schools are in the Project File (Annex.11).
C. RATIONALE FOR BANK GROUP INVOLVEMENT
2.9   The proposed project is consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) for China, which was presented to the Board on June 1, 1995 and reaffirmed on
March 26, 1996. That strategy has as its ultimate objective to assist the Government in
developing the institutions and instruments necessary to sustain rapid growth and broad-
based development. By pilot testing crucial improvements to the quality and market-
responsiveness of the country's vocational and technical secondary schools, the project
represents one building block in developing a labor market in China that can provide well
trained workers in the skills most sought by the market. And, since the project schools
also provide inservice training and other types of adult education, including training
programs directly contracted with employers, the project supports the Bank's emphasis
on helping the Government reform its state-owned industries by facilitating labor
mobility. Workers needing enhanced skills as enterprise reform continues will be able to
get the training required at the model VTE schools to be developed under the project, or
at schools replicating these reforms. As such, the project complements other investment
and technical assistance operations outlined in the CAS for industrial restructuring,
vocational training and economic law reform, all geared to establishing a comprehensive
framework of the basic policy and investment measures required to promote enterprise
reform throughout China. In particular, the project draws on two important Bank sector
studies: the 1992 study on China's urban employment and wage system, which produced
an action plan for employment and wage reforms (Report No. 1 0266-CHA) and the 1993
study on the employment and training implications of enterprise reform (Report No.
1 1785-CHA).



-14-
3. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.1   In support of labor market development, economic restructuring, and SOE reform,
the proposed project would: (a) improve and increase the supply of skilled labor to meet
labor market demands; (b) raise the quality and efficiency of the vocational education and
training system; and (c) build up capacity for monitoring, evaluation and dissemination of
pilot experiences and replication.
--     B. PROJECT MONITORING
3.2   Progress in achieving the project's development objectives would be monitored
on the basis of impact and outcome indicators shown in Annex 1. These indicators would
be derived from a subset of detailed indicators at project and school level, measuring
outcomes and impact and would be consolidated by each province and submitted to the
center. The physical progress of implementation would be monitored against annual
implementation plans to be prepared by the provinces/municipality and participating
schools. Key overall indicators would include the following:
(a)   Project effectiveness in increasing the supply of skilled labor
(i)   Percent of graduates from project institutions employed six months
after graduation
(ii)   The average salary of graduates compared with workers of a
similar age who have not received preservice training
(b)   Improved quality and efficiency
(i)   Percent of project schools attaining National Key School Status
(c)   Enhanced monitoring, evaluation and dissemination
(i)   Number of project provinces preparing annual VTE plans based on
cost and outcome analysis
(ii)   Percent of schools with fully operational tracer studies/feedback
systems
3.3   At the school level, the chief monitoring parameters and indicators would be:
(a)   Improved school management and efficiency



- 15 -
(i)    Average unit cost per trainee year compared to nonproject schools
(ii)   Percent utilization of labs/workshops compared to nonproject
schools
(iii)   Percent financing from industry and tuition fees
(iv)    Ratio of trainers to administrative staff
(b)   Improved market-oriented planning and links with industry
(i)   Percent of project school graduates employed in joint venture or
(private) town and village enterprises
(ii)    Average starting salary of project school graduates compared with
vocational schools at the same level
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the participating provinces/
municipality and schools would prepare semiannual project progress reports, which
would be submitted to SEdC. SEdC would consolidate these reports and submit the
overall report to the Bank Group by April 1 of each year, reporting on the status of
project implementation, including progress made with regard to the agreed monitoring
indicators. In addition, an Interim Report would be prepared for each Bank Group
supervision mission prior to its arrival. An implementation completion report, reviewing
the planned objectives and project achievements, including costs and benefits derived,
would be prepared by SEdC and submitted to the Bank Group no later than six months
after the loan/credit Closing Date.
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.4   The project, to be implemented in the Provinces of Guangdong, Jiangsu, Liaoning
and Shandong and the Municipality of Tianjin, would have the following components:
(a)   Development of Key Schools for Vocational Education;
(b)   Improving Management and Planning of Vocational Education; and
(c)   Supporting Project Management.
Development of Key Institutions for Vocational Education ($56.8 Million)
3.5   This component would support the development of 82 key secondary technical
and vocational schools as models for upgrading the quality and efficiency of vocational
education. Since the project input is relatively small, the revision and upgrading of
training programs would be targeted to priority aspects of selected specializations. The
upgrading would be achieved through an integrated program of: (a) course revision and
curriculum development; (b) staff development and training; (c) international and



- 16 -
domestic technical assistance; and (d) the upgrading and equipping of laboratories and
workshops. The assistance to each school would be based on a detailed plan, focused on
one or two fields or majors which represent the priorities for local or regional economic
development. The emphasis would be on the reform of training to make the system more
flexible and responsive to changing employment demand and opportunity, in line with
evidence from improved labor market information systems and strengthened links with
industry.
3.6   The main thrust of development would be on the following sectors and
specializations, which were identified by the locals schools and enterprises as priority
employment skill needs:
(a)   electronics, electrical engineering
(b)   mechanical engineering, including machinery and automobile engineering
(c)   construction
(d)   light manufacturing industry
(e)   communications, road and traffic engineering
(f)   computer applications, informnation technology
(g)   chemical industry
(h)   tourism, including hotel services.
3.7   Over 60 percent of the specialized courses to be upgraded are in the fields of
electronics, electrical engineering, mechanics, machinery, electromechanics and
information technology, which cover the core skills for modem industrial development.
Other main concentrations are 10 percent in construction, 5 percent in chemical
processes, 6 percent in textiles and garments, and 8 percent in hotel services and tourism.
3.8   Enrollments in the training programs in the above fields in the project schools are
expected to increase from about 42,000 to about 60,000 in full-time preemployment
courses over the project period. A relatively larger increase is foreseen in enrollments in
part-time and specialist short courses for retraining or skills upgrading of existing
workers.
3.9   Upgrading of VTE Training Programs: Course Revision and Curriculum
Development. The SVS and STS programs would be upgraded through the design,
testing and implementation of selected new and revised course modules. The courses
would be selected in accordance with their priority for economic development and
employment needs. Modules of industrial practice would also be upgraded and included
as an integral part of all vocational courses. The related system for examination of



- 17 -
students' attainment and competencies and the vocational qualifications and certification
at national, provincial and school levels would also be critically reviewed and upgraded.
3.10   Staff Development. The skills and experience of teachers would be upgraded
through a staff training program, which would be closely integrated with the course
upgrading. Sixty key specialist teachers from the project schools in the majors of
electronics, mechanics, electromechanics, information technology, construction and
chemical processing would be trained overseas in three-month custom-designed courses,
with a focus on modem teaching methods, particularly for laboratory and workshop
teaching. The trained key teachers, after return to their schools, would continue the
upgrading of courses, including curriculum development, preparation of teaching
materials, laboratory manuals, computer-based learning materials and textbooks. Course
development would be facilitated by a program of seminars and workshops, assisted by
specialist consultants. Both consultants and trained key teachers would design and
participate in the delivery of the domestic training program for other school teachers,
which will also be based on the revised course materials and upgraded teaching methods.
3.11   Specialist teachers in other courses targeted for project support would be trained
in domestic, custom-designed programs, using the experience and resources of selected
schools and institutions assisted under the first Bank Group-assisted VTE project. The
latter would be chosen to assist with staff training and course upgrading on the basis of
their demonstrated successful development in the field, links with overseas institutions,
and close association with international or joint venture enterprises in the sector.
3.12   Specialist staff in all targeted courses would participate in a domestic training
program to include:
(a)   Modular programs for upgrading technical skills and training methods as
well as enhanced refresher training in laboratory and workshop practicai
exercises and project work, particularly based on the revised courses and
use of equipment procured under the project (para. 3.15). The program
would be delivered in selected technical teacher training colleges and key
schools, with participation and supervision of senior school staff,
including the teachers who have been trained overseas;
(b)   Secondment or assignments for supervised training and experience in
industry.  This program  would be designed and supervised at the
provincial level by an advisory group comprising representatives from
industry, the model schools and administrators; and
(c)   Comprehensive courses, of two to three years' duration, leading to
professional qualifications, for selected teachers who were not able to
secure a full degree before entering the profession.
3.13   Specialist Consultant Services.  Specialists would be engaged to assist in
improving courses and the related staff training in fields for which key staff would be



- 18 -
trained abroad; i.e., electronics, mechanics, electromechanics, information technology,
construction and chemical processing. The specialists would guide the groups of key
teachers, after return from overseas training, through programs of seminars and
workshops for curriculum development and preparation of new teaching materials. They
would also participate in the design and implementation of the domestic staff training
program. The outline of the program for employment of specialists, their terms of
reference, and criteria for selection were confirmed at appraisal (Annex 9).
3.14  The consultants and overseas training services would be provided, as far as
possible, through links with vocational education systems in Asia where the Chinese
language is conmmonly used. It is expected that these services would be provided under a
twinning arrangement with institutions in Singapore, well-known for their successful
VTE programs. Under these circumstances, SEdC has agreed to waive the normal
requirement that candidates for overseas training pass an English language proficiency
test. This decision would facilitate timely implementation of the project since that
requirement has been an important factor in hampering implementation of overseas
training in earlier projects.
3.15  Upgrading of Training Facilities. Laboratory and workshop facilities of the
project schools would be upgraded through construction of new, and adaptation of
existing, buildings and by the provision of appropriate, up-to-date equipment. Equipment
to be procured under the project was selected by the project schools, under the guidance
of an experienced panel of advisers and in light of experience gained in the procurement
and use of equipment under the first Bank project in this subsector. The equipment lists
for the schools and summary lists by province were reviewed by the Bank Group and
found acceptable in terms of their appropriateness and recurrent cost implications. In
terms of project investment per student, it would be about Y 1,100 per student per year in
equipment compared to about Y 300 at present.
Improving Management and Planning of Vocational Education ($1.0 Million)
3.16  Complementary to the upgrading of school curricula, instructor training and
physical facilities, this component would improve planning and management of the
system through provision of technicalassistance and management training, improved
planning, linkages with industry and dissemination of best practices.
3.17  Management Improvements. The project would finance overseas study visits,
domestic seminars and workshops to prepare school principals and other management
staff to take responsibility for implementing the reforms at provincial and school level.
The overseas training would comprise structured overseas study assignments, following
custom-designed programs, for groups of selected managers and principals to examine
international approaches and experience of key features of VTE management and
development.
3.18   Reform of the VTE system would depend on improvement to the management
system at provincial and school level and further strengthened links with employers in



- 19-
accordance with central Government policy (para. 1.26). Since 1985, there has been
remarkable progress in the implementation of the policy for vocational education, but as
is the case for social sector development, provinces and also schools are moving at
different pace primarily dependent on industrial development and demand for skilled
manpower. In this context, this pilot project would contribute to achieving the overall
reform goals and related actions and activities would be closely monitored by Bank
supervision using, inter alia, the monitoring indicators as defined in para. 3.2.
3.19  This will include further decentralization of management responsibilities to
encompass staff selection and recruitment, enrollment of students, curriculum and syllabi
design and revision, utilization of staff and physical resources, and financial
responsibility in accordance with annual budgets and plans. Monitoring and evaluation
will play an important role in assuring quality and accountability and will include regular
assessment of external and internal efficiency. For this purpose, the school-based labor
market information system would be strengthened including tracer studies and feedback
from employers to facilitate planning at the school and provincial level.
3.20 Planning Improvements. Planning for VTE would be improved through use of
the monitoring and evaluation system described above and better use of available labor
market information (LMI) in preparing annual and long-term (three-year) school and
provincial-level VTE plans. Consultant services, staff training and seminars would be
provided to develop a school-based LMI system. Building on already established
practices, the project would assist participating schools to: (a) collect information from
graduates on their labor market situation and earnings; (b) compare this information on
outcomes with similar information from appropriate comparison groups to measure the
impact of different types of training; and (c) analyze the cost of each course run by the
school so that cost per student of each course can be calculated for comparison with
impact. Procedures would be developed through which the criterion of cost per unit of
impact is used, among others, in decision by schools on changes in curricula. The labor
market information collected at the school level would be forwarded to the local
government and provincial levels for planning purposes and dissemination of findings on
the impact of training to potential trainees and employers.
3.21   Links with Industry. Links with industry would be formalized by establishing
Industrial Advisory Committees (IACs) to ensure employer participation in the selection
of courses and feedback on student performance following employment. Also, the
introduction of School Governing Boards (SGBs) with industrial representation would
assist in planning and management of schools and be responsible to the administering
authority.
3.22  Dissemination. As part of the dissemination effort under the project, links
between key schools and clusters of other vocational schools in the same community
would be established to extend the experience of successful activities developed under the
project through inservice instructor training; workshops and seminars on improved



- 20 -
systems and procedures for planning and management, course development and teaching
methods, and sharing of specialists.
Project Management Support ($0.4 Million)
3.23   In order to decentralize implementation responsibility, training would be provided
for project management staff at the provincial and school levels. At the provincial level,
this would mainly encompass general project management areas such as planning and
coordination of implementation, financial administration, procurement, monitoring and
evaluation, and project reporting.  At the school level, training would emphasize
monitoring of training program quality and efficiency, local staff development, and
procurement of equipment and materials by national shopping procedures. Project
management training and technical assistance would be provided by SEdC's Foreign
Investment and Loan Office (FILO), which has long experience in implementing Bank
Group education projects. Additionally, the specialist panels will contribute to selection
of equipmnent and appropriate staff development programs.
D. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
3.24   The total project cost is estimated at $68.4 million equivalent with a foreign
exchange component of $14.0 million including contingencies. Taxes and duties of $0.3
million equivalent are included in the total cost. Base cost estimates reflect price levels
prevailing in January 1996. The unit prices were derived from the following sources:
(a) quotations obtained from manufacturers and suppliers; (b) prices of goods and works
from recent contracts; and (c) construction costs according to prices published by the
Central and Provincial/Municipal Governmnents, all adjusted for inflation. Physical
contingencies of 5 percent were applied to the base costs of goods and the following price
contingency rates were applied to all the components: for local expenditure: 10.5 percent
for 1996, 8.5 percent for 1997, 7.0 percent for 1998, 6.5 percent for 1999 and 6.2 percent
for 2000; for foreign expenditures: 2.4 percent for 1996 through 2000. The project cost
summary by component is shown in Table 3.1 and project cost by expenditure category is
presented in Table 3.2. The detailed cost summaries by province are presented in
Annex4.
TABLE 3.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY BY COMPONENT
Y Million               S Million     % Foreign % Base
Local  Foreign  Total    Local Foreign Total Exchange  Cost
Development of Key Institutions    372.85   98.60  471.45    44.92  11.88   56.80    21  98
Improving Management & Planning    2.99    5.64    8.63  0.36  0.68    1.04    65     2
Project Management Support     2.79    0.45    3.24    0.34  0.05    0.39    13       0
Total Base Cost           378.63  104.69  483.32    45.62  12.61   58.23   22     100
Physical Contingencies         8.70    4.57   13.27    1.05  0.55    1.60    34       3
Price Contingencies           64.30    6.96   71.26    7.75  0.84    8.59    10       15
Total Project Cost        451.63  116.22  567.85    54.42  14.00   68.42   20     118



- 21 -
TABLE 3.2: PROJECT COST BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
($ Million)
Improving       Project
Development of   Management   Management
Key Institutions   and Planning   Support     Total
Books and Materials        2.36                            -         2.36
Civil Works       -       23.96                            -        23.96
Equipment                 39.56              -             -        39.56
Foreign Consultants        0.46             0.32           0.06      0.84
Overseas Training          0.45             0.40           -         0.85
Local Consultants           -               0.05           0.12      0.17
Local Training                              0.43           0.01      0.44
Operations Support          -                -             0.24      0.24
Total                   66.79             1.20          0.43     68.42
Taxes                      0.31              -             -         0.31
Foreign Exchange          13.22              0.72          0.06     14.00
3.25  The proposed credit of $20 million equivalent and loan of $10 million equivalent
would together finance about 44 percent of total project costs, including 100 percent of
total foreign exchange requirements, and about 29 percent of local costs net of taxes. The
project provinces, Tianjin Municipality, and SEdC would contribute the balance and
annually make budgetary allocations for the recurrent expenditures required during and
after project implementation. A financing plan is shown in Table 3.3. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the Borrower would make the proceeds of the Loan and
Credit available to the project provinces and Tianjin Municipality on the following
terms: repayment in 20 years with 5 years of grace, at an interest rate of 4 percent per
year. The provincial/municipal governments would bear the foreign exchange risk and
would relend the loan/credit proceeds to project institutions on the same terms.
TABLE 3.3c FINANCING PLAN
($ Million)
Local      Foreign       Total       Percent
Government of China          38.4         0.0         38.4          56
IDA/IBRD                     16.0        14.0         30.0          44
Total                     54.4         14.0        68.4         100



- 22 -
E. PROCUREMENT
3.26  Procurement procedures and arrangements satisfactory to the Bank Group would
be agreed with the project provinces/municipality. All procurement would be undertaken
in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines, dated January 1995 and revised
in January 1996. Procurement responsibility would be shared by FILO and the
provinces/municipality. FILO, through its procurement agent-the China National
Technical Import Company (CNTIC}-would manage procurement of goods under
international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures and of international consultant
services. CNTIC is an experienced and competent procurement agent that is familiar
with, and has had recent and relevant experience in ICB on Bank Group-financed
projects. The tender documents to be used in the project would be based on the standard
bid documents prepared by the Ministry of Finance and approved by the World Bank
Group. The provinces/municipality would handle all other procurement procedures,
including national competitive bidding (NCB). The credit and loan would finance
procurement of instructional equipment, computers, books, materials, international and
local consultant services and training. The Bank Group's standard documents would be
used for all procurement procedures. Expected procurement arrangements under the
project are summarized in Table 3.4 and given in detail in Annex 3.
TABLE 3.4: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
($ million)
Procurement Method
International  National
Competitive    Competitive
Bidding       Bidding     Other /a    NBF lb    Total
Civil Works              -              -          -         23.96     23.96
Equipment                9.64          27.94       1.98       -        39.56
(9.64)       (16.53)      (1.38)              (27.55)
Books                    -              2.36       -          -         2.36
(0.70)                          (0.70)
Consultant Services      -                         1.01       -         1.01
(0.94)              (0.94)
Training                 -                         1.29       -         1.29
(0.81)              (0.81)
Operations Support       -              -          -          0.24      0.24
Total                 9.64          30.30       4.28      24.20     68.42
(9.64)       (17.23)      (3.13)              (30.00)
/a Other includes national shopping and consulting services.
bk NBF: not Bank Group financed
Note: The figures in parentheses are amounts financed by the Bank Group.



- 23 -
3.27  Civil Works ($24.0 million). All civil works would be procured and financed by
the provincial governments using local competitive procedures which are acceptable to
the Bank Group. All proposed works are extensions or complementary units of small size
which are not anticipated to attract foreign bidders. A substantial part of these works
have already reached the tendering stage.
3.28 Equipment, Materials and Books ($41.9 million). Procurement of equipment
and materials with a contract value of $200,000 or above would be procured under ICB
procedures. Contract packages valued at more than $50,000 and less than $200,000
equivalent up to an aggregate amount of $30.3 million would be procured under NCB
procedures acceptable to the Bank Group. Individual contracts valued at less than
$50,000 equivalent up to an aggregate amount of $1.98 million would be procured
through national shopping based on at least three written quotations. The value of ICB
packages for equipment is expected to be between $400,000 and $600,000 and would
include equipment for training such as computers with peripherals, advanced electronics
and telecommunications training equipment, and instruments for measurement and
analysis. Under ICB, local manufacturers would be eligible for a margin of preference in
bid evaluation of 15 percent of the CIF price or the prevailing rate of custom duty, which
ever is lower. The value of NCB packages is expected to be between $100,000 to
$200,000 and would include standard equipment for skills training such as machine tools,
electrical tools and workshop instruments. Experience from the first vocational training
project indicates that local suppliers of the above types of equipment are highly
competitive and previous ICB for similar equipment has elicited little foreign supplier
interests. Combined with the desirability of decentralizing procurement to the provinces,
the type of equipment to be procured justifies a higher than normal proportion of NCB
compared to ICB in the project. The use of standard bidding documents ensures that
foreign bidders are not excluded from NCB.
3.29  Consultant Services and Training ($2.3 million).  The selection and
employment of consultants would be in accordance with the World Bank's "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency-August 1981." Consultants would be engaged using the Bank's
Standard Forms of Contract for Consultants' Services-June 1995. It is anticipated that
consultant services would total about 42-person-months, and all of the major part may be
procured through sole source procurement under a twinning arrangement which would
take into account both technical and language requirements (refer to para. 3.14). In that
case, one or more contracts, including both international TA and training, valued at about
$1.8 million could be approved. All other consultant services would be procured locally
using local procedures acceptable to the Bank. Employment of consultants for the major
part of technical assistance would be a condition for disbursement for procurement of
equipment associated with that part of the technical assistance.
3.30  Review of Bid Documents and Contracts.  Procurement of instructional
equipment, computers and books with a contract value of $200.000 or above would be
subject to prior review by the Bank Group.  Prior review coverage would be of



- 24 -
approximately 26 percent of all contracts as a result of small contracts expected under
NCB with 82 schools in five provinces having different equipment requirements. All
contracts for consultant services, with a value of $50,000 or above for individuals and
$100,000 or above for firms, would also be subject to prior review by the Bank Group.
However, the exceptions to prior review do not apply to (a) the terms of reference for
contracts, (b) single source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of critical
nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank Group, (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or
above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
F. DISBURSEMENTS
3.31   The proposed credit of $20 million equivalent and loan of $10 million equivalent
would be disbursed over a period of five years on the following basis: (a) equipment and
materials' 100 percent of foreign expenditures; 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-
factory); and 75 percent of expenditures for other items procured locally; and
(b) consultant services and training: 100 percent of expenditures.
3.32  Disbursement would be made against statements of expenditure for expenditures
of less than: $200,000 equivalent for equipment and materials; expenditures of less than
$100,000 and $50,000 equivalent for consulting services for firms and individual
consultants respectively. Supporting documents for statements of expenditure would be
retained by the provincial/municipal project offices and the central SEdC project
management office and would be made available for inspection during Bank Group
supervision missions and by external auditors. All other disbursements would be made
against fully documented expenditures. To expedite disbursement, a Special Account
would be established and maintained in US dollars by the Ministry of Finance in a bank
acceptable to the Bank Group. An authorized allocation in the amount of $3 million
would be deposited into the special account, but the initial deposit would be limited to $2
million until the aggregate withdrawal shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $6
million. Replenishment of the Account would be made monthly or when the Account has
reached 50 percent of the initial deposit.
3.33  The project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002 and the closing date
would be December 31, 2002. The estimated schedule of disbursements in Annex 8 is
somewhat faster than the average disbursement profile for education projects in China
due to the small size of the project and experience gained by SEdC in implementing the
previous VTE project.
G. ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT
3.34  Separate  project  accounts  would  be  maintained  by  the  project
provinces/municipality and consolidated by FILO. The State Audit Administration
(SAA) would have overall responsibility for auditing project accounts, and this
arrangement is satisfactory. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Borrower



- 25 -
would ensure that separate project accounts are maintained by the participating schools
and provinces and that an annual audit report of project accounts, the Special Account
and a separate opinion on Statements of Expenditure would be prepared by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Bank Group and submitted to the Bank Group
eight months after the close of the Borrower 'sfiscal year.
H. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
Implementation Arrangements
3.35  Consistent with the bottom-up approach taken in preparing this project, its Project
Implementation Plan (PIP) has been prepared based on the 82 detailed School
Development Plans provided by the participating schools, where in turn were based on a
series of workshops comprising trainers, school leaders, enterprise representatives and
concerned government staff. The PIP is available in the Project File and is summarized
below. An overall Project Implementation Schedule is summarized in Annex 3. A
Project Implementation Agreement (PLA) detailing arrangements for project
implementation would be entered into between the Borrower and each project
province/municipality on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank Group. This
would be a condition of Loan and Credit effectiveness.
3.36  Responsibility for implementation would be shared between the center, the
provincial and local governments, and the schools themselves. The detailed allocation of
implementation responsibilities is shown in Table 3.5. The implementation procedure
adopted recognizes the special nature of this project, particularly: (a) the relatively small
size of the loan and credit; and (b) the objective of supporting government reform and
development, including management reform and decentralization, which require that
project activities be integrated into the overall policy and management framework for
vocational education. The teams established during project preparation, consisting of
SEdC staff and consultants at the central level and Provincial Education Commission
(PEdC) staff strengthened by consultants and industry representatives at the local level,
would be maintained and provide support and advice during implementation. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that SEdC would cause the participating schools
and provinces to prepare detailed annual plans for project implementation during the
coming year, then consolidate the plans and submit the consolidated plan to the Bank
Group for comment by October 15 of each year. Thereafter, the plans would be carried
out, taking Bank comments into consideration. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that training and technical assistance would be carried out in accordance with
plans satisfactory to the Bank Group with assistance from consultants.
Organizational Structure for Implementation
3.37  The organizational structure for project implementation would have three levels:
the Central Government level represented by SEdC; the provincial/municipal level
represented by the Provincial/Municipal Education Commissions (PEdCs/MEdC); and
the local level represented by the Education Offices of counties, cities, municipalities,



- 26 -
and Provincial Technical Bureaus and the participating schools themselves. A project
implementation chart is presented in Annex 5.
TABLE 3.5: ALLOCATION OF IMPLEMENTATION RESPONSIBILITIES
Central/SEdC              1. Overall Coordination of Implementation, including: (a) establishment of
systems, procedures, guidelines and regulations; and (b) coordination of
annual plans for implementation
2. Direct implementation of procurement under 1CB of selected equipment
(subcontracted to the China National Technological Import Company
CNTIC)
3. Overall coordination of staff training (and related technical assistance
programs), including organization of central expert advisory panels, and
administration of international fellowships
4. Training of project management staff (including provincial staff)
5. Overall financial administration, including the Special Account and
preparation of overall accounts of expenditure for the project.
6. Coordination of advisory functions, including specialist panels
7. Overall monitoring and evaluation
8. Reporting on the overall project
Provincial/PEdC          I. Coordination of implementation of the programs of project assisted
development and reform of vocational education, including:
- planning and implementation of physical development of the schools
- planning and implementation of staff development programs
- planning and implementation of course, training program and materials,
revision, upgrading and development
--   e monitoring and evaluation of progress
2. Financial administration for all activities for which they are assigned
implementation responsibility, drawing on loan/credit funds from the
Special Account and on counterpart funds provided by participating local
government authorities.
3. Procurement of equipment through NCB and National Shopping
County/District/School    I. implementation of the programs of improving quality and efficiency of
vocational education
2. Staff training and materials development
3. Procurement of equipment, books etc. through National Shopping within
defined limits
3.38   Central Level.  A National Project Steering Committee (NPSC), chaired by
SEdC, and SEdC's Foreign Investiment Loan Office (FILO) would have primary
responsibility for implementation, to be carried out in consultation with other SEdC
departments and offices, including Finance and Vocational Education Departnents.
FILO, would be responsible for coordinating and supporting project implementation,
including regular reporting to the Bank and assisting Bank supervision missions at the
center and in the provinces. It would also handle procurement under ICB and recruitment
of international consultants. Overall guidance on project implementation would be
provided by the National Project Steering Commnittee. In addition, a permanent Chinese
Expert Panel (CEP) would be established to advise SEdC and PEdCs on substantive
aspects of vocational education reform as well as on project implementation and
coordination Assurances were obtained at negotiations that SEdC would maintain FILO
as the overall responsible body for project implementation.



- 27 -
3.39  Provincial Level.  At this level, Provincial Project Advisory Committees
(PPACs) would be established to provide overall guidance of provincial-level project
activities, which would be managed on a day-to-day basis by Provincial Project
Implementation Offices (PPIOs). The PPACs would meet at least every three months to
discharge their duties. The participating Provinces' authorities, coordinated by the
PEdCs, in collaboration with city and municipal authorities, would be responsible for
implementation of the project programs in the project schools under their control, and for
ensuring that the reform and improvements achieved by these schools are monitored,
evaluated, disseminated, and extended to other schools in each participating Province's
vocational education system. The Provincial authorities would also provide financial
management for all activities under their responsibility, and manage non-ICB
procurement. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Borrower would
cause the PPIOs to be established and maintained for the duration of the project, with
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank Group, and with competent staff in
adequate numbers.
3.40  Local Level. To enable local (subprovincial) authorities to coordinate project
activities and disseminate project findings to nonproject schools, Local Government-level
Coordinating Committees (LGCCs) would be set up covering the administrations of all
project schools. At each participating school, a School Project Planning Implementation
Offices (SPPIO) would be established to coordinate project-related activities. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the Borrower would cause the SPPIOs to be
established and maintained for the duration of the project, with functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank Group, and with competent staff in adequate
numbers.
3.41 In addition, permanent School Governing Boards (SGBs) and School Industrial
Advisory Committees (SIACs) would be established at each project school to participate
in project implementation in their respective areas of competence. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the Borrower would cause the SGBs and SIACs to be
established and maintained for the duration of the project, with functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank Group.
3.42 The participating schools would be responsible, in close collaboration with
provincial and national authorities, for the detailed implementation of the reform effort,
including an active participation in curriculum and training materials development,
teacher and administrator training, and equipment selection, specification, and evaluation,
as well as in the monitoring and evaluation of school and graduate performance at school
and in the labor market. The head of each SPPIO would report directly to the school
principal and through him/her, to the relevant PPIO. The SGBs would assist the
management of each school on matters of finance and administration. The SIACs would
provide a mechanism to ensure full participation of employers in the planning, delivery
and evaluation of training.



- 28 -
I. SUPERVISION
3.43  Bank Group supervision of the project would focus on the monitoring indicators
shown in Annex 1, and the review and evaluation of progress in implementing the annual
work programs to be prepared by the participating provinces/municipality and schools.
The results of monitoring and evaluation carried out by the implementing agencies, using
the improved systems to be introduced under the project, would also be considered. An
indicative supervision plan is shown in Annex 7. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the SEdC would carry out a mid-term review ofproject progress before
December 31, 1998. If warranted by the results of the review, changes would be made to
the project's scope, implementation arrangements, etc.
J. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
3.44  The proposed project would have no environmental impact and has a "C"
classification. Facilities to be constructed or enlarged for the project schools would entail
no land acquisition.



- 29 -
4. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. BENEFITS
4.1   The project would spur further reform of the VTE system, particularly by making
the system more demand driven, and increasing the amount of funding obtained from
nongovernment sources. The project is designed to make the schools more responsive to
market demand by enterprises and employers participation in SIACs and SGBs at each
school. In addition, the new equipment to be provided by the project is seen as a catalyst
enabling new courses to be started and staff to be upgraded which would enable project
schools to respond more efficiently to market demands. This improved response is
expected-to attract more funds from enterprises (and more fees from students), thus
enabling equipment to be replaced continuously as it becomes obsolete, and courses to be
reconfigured and revised as market demand for skills changes. In the 82 project assisted
schools, enrollment would increase from 42,000 to 60,000, 60 instructors would be
trained overseas and in country and about 80 principals and provincial managers would
benefit from study visits and domestic training.
4.2   The project would also benefit graduates of the participating schools who, by
receiving better quality and more relevant vocational education, should be able to find
suitable initial employment and, more important, to secure continued career development.
Inservice training to be provided by the project schools would also benefit SOE staff who
need to improve their skills in keeping with the needs of their restructured enterprises.
Enterprises and other employers in the project areas would benefit from the availability of
a better trained pool of skilled workers, facilitating improved production quality,
increased productivity, and more efficient management. And, if the curriculum and
management reforms to be tested under the project are judged effective, project initiatives
would be replicated in other schools in the provinces, and would expand the range of
benefits realized.
Economic Justification
4.3   The project represents the least-cost solution to furthering VTE reform and
enhanced training quality in economically important specializations. In the absence of a
significant private sector VTE system, the SEdC-run secondary schools are currently the
most appropriate institutions to address China's preservice technical training needs.
These schools are well established, are basically sound and, in the case of the schools
selected for participation in the project, are committed to the reforms to be fostered under
the project. Project inputs have been carefully targeted to areas already possessing a
strong market orientation, at schools that have already achieved a reasonable standard,
and at technical specializations in great demand by both trainees and enterprises. Project



- 30 -
inputs maximize the impact of the relatively modest level of support being provided.
Physical investments have been screened to ensure their cost-effectiveness and
sustainability, while considerable effort was made to ensure stakeholder acceptance of
project technical assistance as well as its suitability and strong potential for success.
4.4   It would be desirable to calculate an internal rate of return on the proposed
investments; however, the necessary data are not complete. While a tracer study carried
out in January 1994, as part of project preparation, collected data on average current
monthly earnings of secondary vocational school (SVS) and secondary technical school
(STS) graduates, no data are available on earnings of comparison groups. Neither the
State Statistical Bureau's national household survey nor the Ministry of Labor's
establishment survey collect the individual records, including earnings, that are needed
for this purpose. However, school-level data were collected during project preparation,
from which inferences may be made about the impact of VTE on productivity and about
private rates of return. The fact that SVSs obtain 32 percent and STSs 20 percent of their
current funding (excluding production income and expenditure) from tuition fees suggests
that many of the courses mounted by both types of school offer a high private rate of
return to individuals.
4.5    Further, the relatively high proportion of current funding obtained from
enterprises (14 percent for SVSs and 18 percent for STSs) suggests that emplovers also
enjoy a private rate of return on some of the courses offered. Data from Jiangsu Province
on source of sponsorship of first-year students give a preliminary indication as to which
courses are attractive and to whom. Those with a presumably high private rate of return
as perceived by students include, in SVSs, computer and business studies, automobile
driving and repair, and chemical, electronic, and machinery assembly trades; and in STSs,
computer studies, foreign trade, and electronic machinery. Those with a presumably high
private rate of return to employers include, in SVSs, automobile trades, tourism and
machinery trades; and in STSs, chemical, electrical, electronic, machinery and textile
trades. Investments to improve the quality and management of training as well as
monitoring of external efficiency, as planned under the project, will help to increase
social rates of return by further improving the productivity impact of VTE. They will
also attract more funds from enterprises and more fees from students, thus further
increasing the proportion of income obtained by the schools from nongovernment
sources.
Sustainability
4.6    The proposed project investments are considered sustainable. Fees from students
and increased financial support from enterprises are generally expected to cover most of
the incremental costs of the specialized courses supported under the project.  The
project's institutional sustainability would benefit from project-supported technical
assistance and training provided by successful VTE institutions in Singapore. Financial
sustainability would benefit from significant stakeholder participation in the project
design process. Project design was developed from a series of workshops comprising



- 31 -
enterprise representatives, employers, school principals and concerned government
agencies. Based on this, project inputs and activities for the schools were identified by
the schools themselves and incorporated into overall school development plans. These
plans were then reviewed by a panel of local experts and the Bank Group, and the
schools, in consultation with the review panel, adjusted their proposals with a view to
ensuring adequate future operations of the envisioned investments and activities. The
incremental recurrent funding requirements as a result of the project are therefore modest
and considered manageable. Project schools would also be encouraged under the project
to increase their cooperation with local enterprises in terms of school management,
selection of training programs and increased financial contribution. Their self-financing
capacity is therefore expected to increase, reinforcing the likelihood that investments
would be maintained and equipment updated as needed. Overall sustainability of the
VTE system will depend on the schools' success in forging strong relationships with local
industries and enterprises. It is the aim of the project to strengthen these linkages, which
already exist for many schools, and to reorient the schools to serving China's growing
number of joint ventures and commercialized enterprises. Mechanisms directed at the
latter goal include panels of school advisers from a range of major local industries and an
enhanced labor market information system allowing schools to identify market demands.
Incremental Costs
4.7   The project's implications for the government budget are approximately neutral.
According to 1993/94 figures provided by provincial education bureaus, salaries
represent about 46 percent of total current expenditure of the secondary vocational and
technical schools in the project provinces, compared with 7 percent on student stipends, 5
percent on pensions, 15 percent on office expenses, 15 percent on maintenance and 12
percent on materials (for production as well as training purposes). The project's main
impact on the structure of expenditure will be on salaries, office expenses, maintenance and
materials/ depreciation. Plausible assumptions may be of a 10 percent rise in the salaries
costs (due to salary increases for upgraded staff rather than an increase in staff numbers,
thanks to improvements in efficiency and staffl/student ratios); a 10 percent increase in
office expenses (reflecting the extra costs associated with monitoring, evaluation and labor
market information); a 10 percent rise in maintenance costs; and an increase in spending on
materials and depreciation of as much-as 50 percent (reflecting the depreciation cost of the
new equipment, in particular). A package of this kind would place no extra burden on the
government budget, as long as the proportion of the schools' expenditure financed from
nongovernment sources rose from 47 percent to 53 percent. This is a modest target for such
a reform project and based on available data on demand from enterprises, should be
achievable.
Replicability
4.8    Although the project would directly benefit only a relatively small number of
schools, the upgraded systems and programs would provide models for dissemination
throughout the project provinces, and nationally. Project elements most suitable for



- 32 -
replication include: (a) upgraded modular courses and training materials; (b) training of
technical teachers, including improved domestic inservice training programs, and teacher
training provided by the project key schools for staff of other schools in the province; and
(c) experience from management reforms. The benefits of enhanced, more relevant
training would be evaluated and the results disseminated to encourage an increasing
number of enterprises to extend and upgrade their participation in such training, including
assumption of an increasing share of the cost.
B. RisKs
4.9   The main project risks are institutional and financial. A risk exists that the
participating schools would not be able to carry out the project as envisioned. Mitigating
this possibility are: the bottom-up approach taken to project design, allowing the schools
to understand fully and be involved in the dimensions and requirements of the plans; the
experience of the project provinces and SEdC with other Bank Group projects, experience
that can be shared with the project schools; and the technical assistance and training
included in the project specifically to buttress implementation capacity.
4.10  There is also a risk of delay in bringing about change and improved training due
to delays in foreign experts' participation in the project and in training programs. Care
has therefore been taken during project preparation to minimize this risk by maintaining a
continued, detailed dialogue on training programs with the participating schools, by
closely integrating consultant support with those programs, and by developing an
innovative twinning arrangement for delivery of foreign technical expertise in a mode
suited to the Chinese context. Client ownership of project technical assistance and
training has been regarded as essential to success. Project conditionality would require
recruitment of key technical assistance as a condition of loan/credit effectiveness and
project training programs according to an agreed timetable.
4.11   On the financial side, there is a risk of underfunding the recurrent costs of
upgraded VTE programs and spreading available resources too thinly. This risk has been
dealt with by involving participants closely in the project design process to ensure a
realistic project scope tailored to available resources, and by limiting improvements and
their costs in each school to only one er two priority specializations for which demand is
high and mostly assured. Incremental recurrent costs caused by the project investment
are estimated to be modest and are expected to be covered by nongovernment financing
(para. 4.7).



-33 -
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1   During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Borrower that:
(a)   A  Project  Implementation  Agreement  detailing  implementation
arrangements would be entered into by the Borrower and each project
province/municipality on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
Group as a condition for loan/credit effectiveness (para. 3.35);
(b)   Employment of consultants for the major part of technical assistance
would be a condition for disbursement for procurement of equipment
-     associated with that part of the technical assistance (para. 3.29);
(c)   SEdC would prepare and submit to the Bank Group by April 1 of each
year a consolidated report of the status of project implementation
including an account of monitoring indicators (para. 3.3);
(d)   The proceeds of the Loan and Credit would be made available to the
Provinces, the Municipality of Tianjin and to the project schools on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank Group (para. 3.25);
(e)   The Borrower would maintain separate project accounts and submit to the
Bank Group annual audit reports of project accounts, the Special Account
and a separate opinion on the Statement of Expenditures prepared by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Bank eight months after the close of
the Borrower's fiscal year (para. 3.34);
(f)   SEdC would cause the participating schools and the provinces to prepare
annual plans for the detailed implementation of project activities, which
would be consolidated by SEdC, submitted to the Bank Group for review
by October 15 of each year, and implemented, taking the Bank's
comments into consideration (para. 3.36);
(g)   SEdC would employ consultants for technical assistance and staff
development in accordance with an agreed plan (para 3.36);
(h)   SEdC would maintain FILO as the overall responsible body for project
implementation (para. 3.38);
(i)   The Borrower would cause the Provincial Project Implementation Offices
(PPIO) at the province level and the School Project Planning and
Implementation Offices (SPPIO), the School Governing Boards (SGBs)



- 34 -
and the Industrial Advisory Committees (IACs) at the school level to be
established and maintained, with functions and responsibilities satisfactory
to the Bank Group, and with competent staff in adequate numbers (paras.
3.39-3.41); and
(j)   SEdC would carry out a mid-term review before December 31, 1998 (para.
3.43).
5.2   Subject to the above agreements, the proposed project would constitute a suitable
basis for an IDA credit of SDR 13.8 million ($20 equivalent) and an IBRD loan of $10
million equivalent to the People's Republic of China. The credit would be on standard
IDA terms, with a 35-year maturity, and the loan would be at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate for currency pool loans, for a term of 20 years, including 5 years of
grace.



KEY PEIRFORMANCE INDICATORS
Baseline             Mid-Ienr                                    Full Impact
Project Objectives            Key Performance Indicators        1996       1997       1998       1999      2000       2001       2002
A. Improved and Increased     a. Percent of graduates from Project
Supply of Skilled Labor to       Schools employed 6 montlis after
Market Demands                  graduation;
b. Starting salary of graduates com-
pared to workers of same age
without preservice training
B. Improved VTE Efficiency   a. Percentage of project school attain
and Quality                      National Key School Status
C. Enhanced                   a. Number of provinces preparing
Monitoring/Evaluation and       annual plans based on cost/out-
Disscmiaiation                  come anplysis;
b. Percent bf schools with fully
operational tracer studies/feed-
back systemn
D. Improved School            a. Average unit cost per trainee year
Management and Efficiency       compared to nonproject schools;
b. Percent of utilization of labs/
workshops compared to non-
project schools;
c. Percent of financing from tion-
government sources, e.g. industry
and tuition fees;
d. Ratio of technical teachers
compared to administrative staff
E. Improved Market-based      a. Percent of graduates employed in
Planning/ Links with Industry   non-state sector, e.g. JV,
private/TVE
b. Starting salary of project school                                                                               Z
graduates compared to others                                                                                     Z
________________  ___ _ _____._  . _._._. ._-'____  _.____                                               X~



-36 -                      ANNEX2
ANNEX 2: SOME ECONOMIC ASPECTS OF VOCATIONAL
EDUCATION AND TRAINING IN PROJECT PROVINCES
Introduction
1.    In analyzing the economics of vocational education and training (VET) in China,
several special conditions have to be borne in mind. The first is the phenomenal rate of
economic growth. Over the 1987-1993 period real Gross Domestic Product (GDP)
increased at an annual average rate of 9 percent. Currently, with real GDP increasing by
12 percent in 1994 (and with double-digit growth again expected in 1995), China is the
fastest growing economy in Asia, the world's fastest growing region.
2.    Secondly, the government is following an incrementalist approach to the
transition from central planning to markets. Reform of institutions, including enterprises
and the labor market, is gradual, with the emphasis on building on what there is, rather
than smashing and replacing. Growth plus gradualism have meant that the wvelfare costs
of transition have been lower in China than in Europe and the incidence of poverty has
fallen.
3.    A third point concerns the relative size and strength of the public and private VET
systems. The public VET system is large, experienced and linked to enterprises. Private
training institutions are beginning to emerge in the larger cities. In Qingdao (Shandong
province), for instance, there are around 400, offering short courses in computer
applications, foreign trade, business, music, garment making and designing, etc. In
Dalian (Liaoning) they concentrate on secretarial, accounting and computer keyboard
skills. In the smaller cities, such as Anshan (Liaoning), their quality and quantity is
described as low, and they offer short courses in elementary word-processing. In general,
they are few and weak, and mainly confined to quick-profit, short-course specializations.
4.    Each of these special conditions has implications for VET. Fast growth, together
with structural change and upgrading of technology and product quality, means that vast
numbers of new skilled workers are needed each year. In 1993 one in 15 industrial
workers had probably been recruited during the past year; in the services sector the ratio
was even higher, maybe one in ten. Inplant training alone is unable to cope with
imparting skills to new recruits on this scale: it needs to be supplemented by offplant,
precareer training.
5.    Secondly, the gradual pace of reform means that there is still a long way to go,
particularly in restructuring of SOEs. This presents dangers as well as opportunities for
the public VET system. Insofar as its close relations with employers are based on the old
system, they may become more rather than less difficult to maintain and enlarge, as



- 37 -                      ANNEX2
enterprise reform accelerates and the number of nonstate enterprises increases.
Increasingly profit-conscious enterprises will need to be convinced that investment in
offplant training pays off: new relationships, new skills, and new courses will be needed
for this purpose.
6.    Thirdly, the need for the public VET system to become self-supporting and
responsive to industry's needs, while not crowding out private training institutions (the
so-called level playing field), is generally agreed. This does not necessarily imply a
complete absence of subsidy for secondary vocational and technical schools: the general-
education part of the curriculum is still a proper state function. The aim of every school
should be to raise income to cover the costs of the rest of the curriculum: this will vary
between schools and specialization but is unlikely to exceed 60 percent of current costs.
The Provinces and Their Schools
7.    The project will be implemented in four provinces, Guangdong, Jiangsu, Liaoning
and Shandong, and one municipality, Tianjin, all located on the coast. Table 1
summarizes some recent economic indicators.
Table 1: ECONOMIC INDICATORS FOR PROJECT PROVINCES, 1994
Guangdong  Jiangsu  Liaoning  Shandong  Tianjin
Population (million)              67          70       41        87         9
GDP per head (Y)                6,340      5,779    6,354     4,466      7,755
Real growth rate                  19%         17       11%       16%       14
Exports per head ($)             751          95      149        68       288
Foreign direct investment per head  141       54       35        29       109
% employed in second sector       28%         33       39%       24%       49
% employed in third sector        31%         24       30%       20%       34
SOE employment as % of non-       27%         27       49%       32%       42
agricultural employment
Source: China Statistical Yearbook; 1995.
8.    These are prosperous provinces by Chinese standards. GDP per head in the
lowest case, Shandong, is 19 percent above the national average. They are also among
the most dynamic areas of the country, with all except Liaoning exceeding the national
average growth rate for the year of 12 percent. Tianjin is a special case. The fact that it
is an urban area accounts for its high figures for GDP, exports and foreign investment per
head, and for its large proportion of employment in the second sector: however, it is
lagging in the process of reform, with a relatively underdeveloped tertiary sector and with
nonagricultural employment still dominated by SOEs. Of the provinces, Guangdong's is
clearly the most reformed economy, with a relatively small proportion of nonagricultural
workers in state enterprises, the highest ratio of employment in the tertiary sector to that



- 38 -                       ANNEX2
in the secondary sector, the highest figures for exports and foreign investment per head,
and an amazing 19 percent growth rate. Shandong is less industrialized and with lower
income, exports and foreign investment per head, but scores well on such indicators of
reform as relative size of tertiary sector, and non-SOE as a percentage of nonagricultural
employment. Jiangsu is in an intermediate position as far as exports and foreign
investment per head are concerned, and has a relatively small tertiary sector, but rivals
Guangdong in the development of non-SOE employment. Liaoning has the highest GDP
per head of the four provinces, but in many ways has the greatest transitional problems.
Its economy is still dominated by heavy industry and by SOEs, its services sector is
relatively small, and it is attracting relatively little foreign investment.
9.    The provinces differ also in the management and orientation of their secondary and
vocational technical schools, to judge from an analysis of responses to questionnaires
returned by 78 project schools, distributed as shown in Table 2.
Table 2: DIFFERENCES BETWEEN PROJECT SCHOOLS BY PROVINCE, 1995
Jiangsu  Guangdong Liaoning  Shandong Tianjin  Total
Number in sample:
SVS                           13         6        11       13        9    52
STS                           10         5         3        4        4    26
Total                         23        11        14       17       13    78
Regular links with Industry
Yes                           22%       36%       71%     100%     100%   63%
No                            78%       64%       29%       0%       0%   37%
100%     100%      100%      100%     100%   100%
Main sector of employment:
Agriculture/Manufactory       67%       86%       21%      67%      77%   61%
Services                      33%       14%       79%      33%      23%   39%
100%     100%      100%      100%     100%  100%
Teachers salaries as a % of
private-sector salaries for
comparably qualified persons
75% or less            39%       50%       62%      53%      50%   50%
>75%                   61%       50%       38%      47%      50%   50%
100%     100%      100%      100%     100%  100%
% of graduates going to non-
SOEs:
<30%                   30%       50%       29%      31%      38%   33%
30%+                   70%       50%       71%      69%      62%   67%
100%     100%      100%      100%     100%  100%
Source: Questionnaires returned by project schools.



- 39 -                     ANNEX2
10.   Provinces appear to differ in their approach to cooperation with enterprises. In
two cases, Shandong and Tianjin, all the project schools obtain regular advice from
employers, usually through their membership of management or advisory committees. In
Jiangsu and Guangdong, on the other hand, only a minority of schools make such
arrangements. Most provinces have selected schools oriented towards industry: Liaoning
is the exception, obviously intending to use the project to boost its underdeveloped
services sector. All provinces have difficulty in keeping salaries for their teaching staff
up to levels prevailing in the private sector: not surprisingly, this is particularly the case
in Guangdong, where the private sector is most dynamic. In Guangdong, also, the
schools seem to be the most SOE-oriented: only 50 percent of project schools send 30
percent or more of their graduates to the private sector, compared with more than 70
percent of schools in Jiangsu and Liaoning.
Demand, Outcomes and Impact
11.   Unemployment is not a useful indicator of the labor market situation in China. In
all five provinces the official unemployment rate is probably near the national average of
2.6 percent. However, this figure refers to urban areas only, excluding job-seekers from
rural areas who are not officially urban residents. In addition, there are large numbers of
surplus workers in SOEs. As far as secondary school leavers are concerned, as might be
expected from Table 1, the labor market in these provinces is booming. The 1993 tracer
study of SVS and STS leavers found no unemployed, and none were reported by any of
the project schools. There seems to be no difference between vocational/ technical and
academic school leavers in this respect.
12.   Information about what happens to school leavers is widely available.  For
instance, the 1993 tracer study found that 89 percent of 1992 graduates from STSs and 50
percent of those from SVSs were first employed in SOEs. The data collected from the
project schools is consistent with this: the median was 82 percent of 1994 graduates of
STSs to SOEs, 54 percent in the case of SVSs. The tracer study also found average
current monthly earnings of secondary vocational school (SVS) and secondary technical
school (STS) graduates employed in organizations other than the government
administration and SOEs to range (depeDding on the type of organization) from Y 117 to
Y 650 for the 1988 cohort, from Y 115 to Y 300 for the 1990 cohort, and from Y 112 to
Y 301 for the 1992 cohort. Schools regularly collect other data on outcomes. What is
lacking is information about the impact of vocational/technical education. That is, what
difference does it make to the labor market experience of its graduates?
13.   Impact is difficult to estimate for various reasons. There is the usual difficulty of
selecting a comparison group. In China, as in many other countries, the cream of lower
secondary school leavers goes to upper secondary academic (or general) schools; the
vocational/technical schools get the rest. Therefore, a comparison between vocational/
technical and upper secondary general graduates is not valid. A fairer comparison would
be between two groups of lower secondary school leavers of five or six years earlier, all
with comparable marks in school-leaving examinations. One group would consist of



-40 -                       ANNEX2
those who went through vocational/technical education, the other of those who found
other routes (probably including a short training course). The difference between the
subsequent labor market experience of the two groups would measure the impact of
vocational/technical education. No such comparison-group data are available.
14.   Indeed, no individual-record data of the kind that could be used in estimations of
impact (and of rates of return) on VTE are currently available. The National Household
Survey collects data on the age, sex, education, occupation and employment of individual
household members, but not of their earnings. The Ministry of Labor in its Establishment
Survey, aggregated data on average wages and average years of schooling of different
categories of workers, but not in the individual-record form needed for impact estimation.
It also conducts an occasional household survey, which does include individual records
but not in a form that is usable for this purpose. The most recent published data from this
survey are for 1992.
15.   Another reason for the difficulty of impact estimation is the still underdeveloped
state of the labor market. Unemployment among such graduates is negligible, and a large
proportion still works for state enterprises, where wages are still largely determined by
administrative rules.
16.   In these circumstances a useful indicator of the relative marketability of different
types of graduates (and, by inference, the private rate of return on their training) is
provided by the proportion of students in each specialization who are either sponsored/
contracted by enterprises or paying for themselves. Table 3 shows the situation in the
case of Jiangsu province.
17.   This table suggests that there are significant differences in private rates of return
between specialization. Any specialization with a significant proportion of private fee-
paying students must be offering a high expected private rate of return to individuals.
Any specialization with a high proportion of enterprise-sponsored students must be
offering a high private rate of return to the employers involved. In both cases a positive
impact on productivity can be inferred. Conversely, questions must be asked about the
specialization in which a high propotion of students are government-assigned. A
difference in orientation between SVS and STS is apparent in these respects. At SVS
level, there seems to be relatively little interest among industrial enterprises in sponsoring
trainees, except in machinery trades; employers in the services sector are more interested,
particularly in automobile trades (repair and driving), tourism and computer studies.
Computer and business studies and automobile driving and repair are also relatively
popular among private students, in addition to chemical and electronic machinery trades:
these are also the specialization that private training institutions are likely to become
interested in. At STS level, industrial enterprises sponsor relatively more students,
particularly in chemical, electrical/electronic, machinery and textile trades: some of these
also attract private students, as do computer studies and foreign trade.



-41-                          ANNEX2
Table 3: FIRST YEAR STUDENTS IN PROJECT SCHOOLS, BY SPECIALIZATION
AND SPONSORSHIP, JIANGSU PROVINCE, 1993/94
Number of   Government   Enterprise    Private      Total
students     assigned    sponsored  fee-paying
A. SVS
Business                 1,024          58%          10%        32%        100%
Computer                  151            5%          21%         74%       100%
Secretarial                66           89%           2%         9%        100%
Foreign trade              42           62%          12%        26%        100%
Tourism                   536           47%          35%         18%       100%
Education                 199          100%           0%          0%       100%
Automobile                177            0%         49%          51%       100%
Chemical                   54           61%           0%        39%        100%
Construction              258           82%           0%         18%       100%
Electrical                100           64%           8%        28%        100%
Electronic                657           45%           6%        49%        100%
Machinery                 501           53%         35%          12%       100%
Textiles                   66           59%          15%        26%        100%
Other                     129           22%           0%        78%        100%
Total                 3,960          52%          16%         31%        100%
B. STS
Business                 1,050          66%          16%         17%       100%
Computer                  330           14%         22%         64%        100%
Secretarial               108           63%         31%          6%        100%
Foreigntrade              219           38%         31%         31%        100%
Shipping                  194           51%         29%         20%        100%
Science                    46           67%         20%          13%       100%
Chemical                  163           36%         42%         22%        100%
Electrical                410           17%         57%         26%        100%
Electronic                734           20%         38%         43%        100%
Machinery                 477           27%         46%         27%        100%
Textiles                  685           27%         68%          5%        100%
Animal husbandry          337          100%           0%          0%       100%
Total                 4,753          41%          35%         24%        100%
Source: Questionnaires returned by project schools.
Costs
18.   A careful comparison of the relative costs of general and vocational/technical
education has not yet been undertaken in China, but two provinces have provided the
figures on current expenditure per student in different types of secondary education,
shown in Table 4.



-42 -                         ANNEX2
Table 4: CURRENT EXPENDITURE PER FULL-TIME STUDENT, SECONDARY EDUCATION,
BY TYPE, GUANGDONG AND SHANDONG PROVINCES, 1993/94
Lower secondary     Upper secondary (general)     SVS       STS
Guangdong            569                     1,641               1,350     3,836
Shandong             343                       810               1,388     1,775
Source: Provincial Education Bureaus.
19.   The pattern is largely as expected, with higher levels more costly than lower
levels, and vocational/technical more costly than general (with the exception of SVS in
Guangdong). However, the comparability of the figures is in doubt. Short-term students
in vocational/technical schools are excluded from  the denominator:  in 1993/94,
Guangdonfg SVS and STS had 205,000 and 69,000 such students respectively, while in
Shandong the comparable figures were 190,000 and 1.7 million. Also, expenditure
figures include pension payments to retired teachers to a varying extent.  Further
investigation is needed.
20.   Vocational/technical schools differ from general schools in the amount of funding
that they obtain from nongovernrent sources. As Table 5 shows, this amounted to 47
percent of current revenue in 1993/94.
Table 5: SOURCES OF CURRENT FUNDING, VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL SCHOOLS,
BY TYPE OF SCHOOL AND PROVINCE 1993/94
Province     Type   Government    Enterprises    Tuition fees   Production   Total
Guangdong    SVS        64%           4%           17%           7%      100%
STS        58%           15%         24%            4%      100%
All        61%            9%         20%            6%      100%
Jiangsu      SVS        37%           14%         35%            9%      100%
STS        64%           10%         20%            4%      100%
All        52%           12%         27%            6%      100%
Liaoning     SVS        56%           2%          32%            7%      100%
STS        48%           11%         38%            3%      100%
All        53%            5%         34%            5%      100%
Shandong     SVS        46%           20%          19%          10%      100%
STS        54%           41%          2%            1%    100%
All        48%           27%          14%           7%      100%
Tianjin      SVS        44%           15%         35%            7%      100%
STS        61%           22%          12%           3%      100%
All        52%           18%         25%            5%      100%
Total        SVS        48%           12%         28%            8%      100%
STS        59%           17%         19%            4%      100%
Ail  -     53%           14%         24%            6%      100%
Source: Questionnaires returned by project schools (School Development Plans).



- 43 -                        ANNEX2
21.   As can be seen, SVSs are more successful than STSs in obtaining nongovernment
funds. Provinces also vary: Shandong is the least, Guangdong the most reliant on
government funding. Shandong is particularly successful in attracting finance from
enterprises. Liaoning has the highest proportion of funding from tuition fees. Some of
the reasons for these differences are explored in Table 6.
Table 6: SOURCES OF FUNDING FOR CURRENT EXPENDITURE BY ENTERPRISE
INVOLVEMENT IN MANAGEMENT (Main Sectors in Sector of Employment
of Graduates, Salaries Compared with Private Sector, and
Percentage of Graduates Going to Non-SOEs)
Government  Enterprises  Tuition Fees Production  Total
Regular links with Industry
YQs                     52%         17%        24%         6%        100%
No                      59%         10%        24%         7%        100%
Main sector of employment:
Agriculture/manufacturing    54%    16%        22%         6%        100%
Services                50%         13%        27%         5%        100%
Teachers salaries as a % of private-
sector salaries for comparably
qualified persons
>75%                    53%         12%        27%         6%        100%
75% or less             54%         18%        19%         6%        100%
% of graduates going to non-SOEs:
<30%                    59%         17%        18%         3%        100%
30%+                    49%         13%        29%         7%        100%
Source: Questionnaires returned by project schools.
22.    Schools that involve enterprise representatives in their management seem, as
might be expected, to be significantly more successful in raising money from enterprises.
This may be one of the reasons for the relative lack of such success by Guangdong and
Jiangsu (see Table 2 above). Schools oriented toward the secondary sector are slightly
more successful in attracting funding from enterprises, while those oriented towards the
tertiary sector are able to attract a significantly higher proportion of fees: this may
account partly for the pattern of Liaoning's funding shown in Table 2. Interestingly, the
payment of competitive salaries to teachers seems to be less important in attracting
enterprise sponsors than it is as an attraction to individual fee-payers! Rather ominously,
schools still relying on state enterprises to employ their graduates attract a higher
proportion of finance from enterprises than those more geared to nonstate enterprises
(which are, however, able to attract a higher proportion of tuition fees).
Summary of Findings
23.   An important purpose of the project is reform of the VET system, particularly in
the sense of increasing the amount of funding obtained from nongovernment sources.



-44 -                       ANNEX2
New equipment is mainly seen as a catalyst for reform, enabling new courses to be started
and staff to be upgraded, with multiplier effects across the VET system. This will attract
more funds from enterprises (and more fees from students) and thus enable equipment to
be continuously replaced as it becomes obsolete.
24.   Targets for nongovernment funding need to be set by each school, sufficient to
cover the cost of the technical/vocational part of the curriculum (including its proportion
of overheads). On average, schools are already remarkably successful in raising such
finance, equivalent to 47 percent of current funding, 52 percent for SVSs alone. Several
schools are probably already on target, but there are also many (particularly among STSs)
which are not. The easier way of raising such funds may be to lay on courses which
attract tuition fees, but many of these (low-level business and computer studies,
automobile repair and driving, secretarial courses, etc.) can more efficiently be left to
private training institutions as they gradually develop: it may be that the comparative
advantage of the public system is in courses which attract funds from enterprises.
25.   To this end, those schools that do not already involve enterprise members in
school management (particularly in Jiangsu and Guangdong provinces) need to make
such arrangements as soon as possible. Several schools could be used as models in
designing such systems. Relations with enterprises need to be widened to include more
nonstate enterprises. Contacts with township/village enterprises seem to be particularly
weak, with a few exceptions.
26.   Schools that do not have contracts for training with enterprises need to learn from
those that do. Even more important, schools that are not receiving an adequate fee from
enterprises for contract training, need to learn from schools which are successful in
negotiating adequate training fees. And schools that bear the full cost of inplant training
practice need to learn from schools which persuade enterprises to pay for it.
27.   The school office responsible for relations with enterprises should also be
responsible for finding out what has happened to graduates. As the labor market
develops, the focus of such tracer studies will need to change, from a survey of opinions
of employers to a set of questions direcwed towards graduates, covering: whether they are
working or not working; if working, in what occupation; their earnings; relevance of
training to their job; and, if not working, whether unemployed or outside the labor force.
This information will need to be compared with similar information on appropriate
comparison groups, in order to measure the impact of different types of training. They
can be supplemented by indicators of the relative marketability of different types of
graduates, of the kind shown in Table 3. The same office should also analyze the cost of
each course run by the school, so that cost per graduate of each course can be calculated,
for comparison with impact. The effective use of cost-per-unit-of-impact estimates in the
redesign of curricula will also need to be ensured.
28.   Production income (6% of total revenue) raises some special issues. In most
cases, school accounts seem to show gross income from production, which will be offset



-45 -                        ANNEX 2
by connected expenditure on materials, power, supervisors' time, etc. There are three
categories of production unit in schools:
(a)   those using only student labor, with the primary purpose of training.
Customers should always be expected to pay for the products of these
units, but they should not become profit-driven.
(b)   those using nonstudent labor, with the primary purpose of making a profit,
but the secondary purpose of providing students with training practice.
(c)   those using only nonstudent labor, with the sole purpose of making a
profit, and no training function.
The mission saw examples of all three categories in visits to schools. Categories (b) and (c)
are notproblematic, but (a) can become so. Periods spent in production units should never
be longer than necessary for training purposes. If it is not possible to reproduce industrial
conditions, inplant training practice is preferable.



ANNEX 3: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCH-TEDULE
Calendar Year                             1996                 1997                           199S                       1999                      2000                      2001
Quarter                                 Q4       Ql      Q2        Q3                I                   Q2   Q3   Q'll Q2 Q          Q4      Q Q2   Q3   Q4    Ql   Q2   Q3   QIJ
A. Developmient of Key Schools
i. Civil Works
ii. lrovision of Equipment
iii. Curriculum Development
a. Tciinical Assislancc
b. Staff Training
v. Local Training
B. hianagenientIPlanning                                  I I                              I            I            IlI            IIIJI*II                      l            * 1
i. Tecinical Assistance                                     _                                                                                          j    j     jjI 
ii. Managemcent Traininlg
iii. Local Training
C. Project lianagciiient
i. Iechnical Assistance
ii. Stafl training by FILO
iii. Seminars
iv. Study TourI
v. Expert Pancl P11 '                                                                                            I                I
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                                                        L   i:
XJ



ANNEX 3A: PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE
Calendar Year                              1997                1998                                   2000
Quarter                             QIQ2Q3  Q4  QX  Q2  Q3  Q4  QI  Q2  Q3  Q4   Q X  Q2  Q3  Q4
Appointment of Procurement Agent
ICB3
Preparation of Specifications
/tender documents
Advertisement
Bid-opening/Evaluation
Delivery
NCB
First Tender
Preparation of Specifications
/tender documents
Advertisement
Bid-opening/Evaluationi
Delivery
Second Tender
Preparation of Specifications
/tender documents
Advertisement
Bid-opening/Evaluation                            ___
Delivery                                          _



China
Vocational Education Reform Project                                                                                ,6
Table 14. SEdC
Detailed Costs                                                          Expenditures by Financiers
(USS Million)                      Totals Including Contingencies              IDA/IBRD
1997 i998  1999 2000  2001 Total 1997  1998  1999 2000 2001 Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Local Consultants
Local Training             0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.01  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.01             t
Foreign Consultant         0.01  0.01  0.01  0.00  0.00  0.03  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.00  0.00  0.03             n
Local Consultants          0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00             0
Advisory Panel             0.01  0.02  0.01  0.01  0.00  0.05  0.01  0.02  0.01  0.01  0.00  0.05            r_
Study Tours                0.01  0.01  0.01  0.00  0.00  0.04  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.00  0.00  0.04
Total                           0.03  0.05  0.03  0.01  0.01  0.13  0.03  0.05  0.03  0.01  0.01  0.13



China
Vocational Education Reform Project
Table 9. Shandong
Detailed Costs                                  Expenditures by Financiers
(US$ Million)                                           Province                                 IDA/IBRD
1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  Total  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Books                               0.10   0.16   0.17   0.09   0.03   0.55
B. Civil Works                         2.31   1.54      -      -      -   3.85      -     -      -      -      -      -
C. Equipment /a                        0.42   0.63   0.48   0.20   0.11   1.84   1.53   2.29   1.74   0.73   0.39   6.68
D. Technical Assistance
Foreign Consultants (Com. 1)            -      -      -     -      -      -   0.02   0.03   0.03   0.01   0.01   0.09              A
Foreign Consultants (Com. 2)            -      -      -     -      -      -   0.01   0.02   0.02   0.01   0.00   0.06
Foreign Consultants (Com. 3)            -      -      -     -      -      -   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.01
Overseas Training (Instructors)                       -     -      -      -   0.06   0.02   0.01      -      -  0.09
Overseas Training (Principals)          -             -     -      -      -  0.05   0.01   0.01       -      -   0.08
Local Consultants                    0.00      -      -     -      -  0.00              -      -      -             -
Local Training                       0.00      -      -     -      -  0.00       -      -      -      -      -      -
Subtotal Technical Assistance          0.00      -      -      -      -  0.00   0.13   0.08   0.08   0.02   0.01   0.32
E. Operations Support                  0.01   0.02   0.01   0.00   0.00   0.05     -      -      -      -      -      -
Total                                     2.85   2.35   0.66   0.30   0.14   6.30   1.66   2.37   1.82   0.75   0.40   7.00
\a included 0.8% of taxes



China
Vocational Education Reforn Project
Table 12. Tianjin
Detailed Costs                              Expenditures by Financiers
(US$ Million)                                       Province                               IDA/IBRD
1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  Total  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Books                           0.02   0.04   0.04   0.02   0.01   0.12   0.01   0.02   0.02   0.01   0.00   0.05
B. Civil Works                  l 2.81   1.87      -      -      -  4.68      -      -      -      -     -      -
C. Equipment                       0.62   0.93   0.70   0.30   0.16   2.71   0.99   1.49   1.13   0.48   0.25   4.34
D. Technical Assistance                                                                                                         o
Foreign Consultants (Com. 1)       -      -      -      -      -     -  0.02   0.03   0.03   0.01   0.01   0.09
Foreign Consultants (Com. 2)       -      -      -      -      -     -  0.01   0.02   0.02   0.01   0.00   0.06
Foreign Consultants (Com. 3)       -      -      -      -      -     -  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.01
Overseas Training (Instructors)    -      -      -      -      -     -  0.07   0.02   0.02      -      -  0.11
Overseas Training (Principals)     -      -      -      -      -     -  0.04   0.01   0.01      -      -  0.05
Local Consultants                         -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -     -             -
Local Training                   0.00     -      -      -      -  0.00      -      -      -     -      -      -
Subtotal Technical Assistance      0.00     -      -      -      -  0.00   0.13   0.08   0.08   0.02   0.01   0.32
E. Operations Support              0.01  0.02   0.01   0.00   0.00   0.05     -      -      -     -
Total                                3.46   2.85   0.75   0.32   0.17   7.55   1.14   1.59   1.23   0.51   0.26   4.72



China
Vocational Education Reform Project
Table I1. Liaoning
Detailed Costs                               Expenditures by Financiers
(US$ Million)                                        Province                                 IDA/IBRD
1997   1998   1999  2000  2001  Total  1997   1998   1999  2000  2001  Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Books                            0.04   0.06   0.06   0.03   0.01   0.20   0.03   0.04   0.04   0.02   0.01   0.14
B. Civil Works                    - 3.41   2.28      -      -      -   5.69      -      -      -      -      -      -
C. Equipment                        0.53   0.79   0.60   0.25   0.13   2.31   1.16   1.73   1.31   0.55   0.29   5.05
D. Technical Assistance                                                                                                              _
Foreign Consultants (Com. 1)        -      -      -      -      -      -   0.02   0.03   0.03   0.01   0.01   0.09
Foreign Consultants (Com. 2)         -      -         -          -      -   0.01   0.02   0.02   0.01   0.00   0.06
Foreign Consultants (Com. 3)        -      -      -      -      -      -   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.01
Overseas Training (Instructor)      -       -     -      -       -     -   0.06   0.02   0.02       -      -   0.10
Overseas Training (Principals)      -      -      -      -       -     -   0.04   0.01   0.01       -      -   0.07
Local Consultants                 0.00      -      -      -      -   0.00             -      -      -             -
Local Training                   0.00      -      -      -      -   0.00      -      -       -      -      -      -
Subtotal Technical Assistance       0.00      -      -      -      -   0.00   0.13   0.08   0.08   0.02   0.01   0.32
E. Operations Support               0.01   0.02   0.01   0.00   0.00   0.05      -      -      -      -      -      -
Total                                  3.99   3.14   0.67   0.29   0.15   8.25   1.32   1.86   1.44   0.60   0.31   5.52



China
Vocational Education Reform Project
Table 10. Jiangsu
Detailed Costs                                  Expenditures by Financiers
(US$ Million)                                           Province                                  IDAIIBRD
1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  Total  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Books                             0.10   0.16   0.17   0.09   0.03   0.54   0.05   0.09   0.09   0.05   0.02   0.29
B. Civil Works                    l  3.34   2.23      -      -      -   5.57      -      -      -      -      -      -
C. Equipment                         0.78   1.17   0.89   0.38   0.20   3.42   1.48   2.22   1.68   0.71   0.37   6.47                
D. Technical Assistance
Foreign Consultants (Com. 1)          -      -      -      -      -      -   0.02   0.03   0.03   0.01   0.01   0.09
Foreign Consultants (Cor. 2)          -      -      -      -      -      -   0.01   0.02   0.02   0.01   0.00   0.06
Foreign Consultants (Com. 3)          -      -      -      -      -      -   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.01
Overseas Training (Instructors)       -      -      -      -      -      -   0.04   0.01   0.01      -      -   0.06
Overseas Training (Principals)        -      -      -      -      -      -   0.06   0.02   0.02      -      -   0.10
Local Consultants                  0.02   0.04   0.03   0.02   0.01   0.12             -      -      -             -
Local Training                     0.09   0.14   0.11   0.07   0.02   0.43      -      -      -      -      -      -
Subtotal Technical Assistance        0.11   0.18   0.14   0.09   0.03   0.54   0.13   0.08   0.08   0.02   0.01   0.32
E. Operations Support                0.01   0.02   0.01   0.00   0.00   0.05      -      -      -      -      -      -
Total                                     4.35   3.76   1.20   0.55   0.26  10.13   1.67   2.39   1.85   0.78   0.40   7.08



China
Vocational Education Reform Project
Table 13. Guangdong
Detailed Costs                               Expenditures by Financiers
(US$ Million)                                        Province                                IDA/IBRID
1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  Total  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Books                            0.04   0.07   0.08   0.04   0.01   0.24   0.04   0.06   0.06   0.03   0.01   0.21
B. Civil Works                      2.50   1.67     -      -      -  4.16       -      -      -      -     -      -
C. Equipment                        0.40   0.60   0.45   0.19   0.10   1.74   1.14   1.72   1.30   0.55   0.29   5.00
D. Technical Assistance
Foreign Consultants (Com. 1)        -      -      -      -      -      -   0.02   0.03   0.03   0.01   0.01   0.09
Foreign Consultants (Com. 2)         -     -      -      -      -      -   0.01   0.02   0.02   0.01   0.00   0.06
Foreign Consultants (Com. 3)         -     -      -      -      -      -   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.01
Overseas Training (Instructors)      -     -      -      -      -      -   0.07   0.02   0.02     -      -  0.10
Overseas Training (Principals)       -     -      -      -      -      -  0.04   0.01   0.01      -      -   0.06
Local Consultants                 0.00     -      -      -      -  0.00       -      -      -                   -
Local Training                    0.00     -      -      -      -  0.00       -      -      -     -      -      -
Subtotal Technical Assistance       0.00      -     -      -      -   0.00   0.13   0.08   0.08   0.02   0.01   0.32
E. Operations Support               0.01   0.02   0.01   0.00   0.00   0.05     -      -      -      -     -      -
Total                                  2.96   2.35   0.54   0.23   0.12   6.20   1.32   1.86   1.44   0.60   0.31   5.53



- 54 -                         ANNEX 5
ANNEX 5: PROJECT IMPLE1MNTATION CHART
|Sourcs of Funds       Financil Agents  |  lmpcmentation        Coordination    Advisory Committees
Agencies          Committees
Credit/Loan   |       Ministry of      State Education        National    I
Account               Finance          Commission            Project        National
/FMLO             Steerina
l                                      Committee .~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  Advisor-y
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cmi ee  Committee
Special Account
ountrar              Provincial Dept.      Provincial PIO       Provincial Advisory
Funding                 FinanCe                                    Committees
County Education 1
Bureau     l
lL                                          Industril
Board         I    T        Committee    .Comm _5t
I
Scoo PI



ANNEX 6: ORGANIZATION Ch-IARZT
Cn  EcStte Education   Commision
i i  0 ! 3  < 3          3                <             [ f         3       e       3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Dm ..f  Dep1 of Sciciscel
Dept. of Teacher       i)epl Or B3asic        Dept. of Adult         Dept. ofMinority    F      Dcpt of                                  DeF-5p-t o7
Trainiing             Educailon            , Educalion               E-ducalion           Sprion            |Dcpt. of AV--    I Equipn ent              ui  li 
| China Educatn 
FILO                         TV                                                                 Examninaiion Coot.              VrE Rcscarcal |           I ligier Education
Ceniter                      Institutc                   Press
Educdtion                       Pcople's Educalion
Inlormation Center                         Press
State Council Academiic             ScicnceiTcchuiology
Education Publicaions                             Degrec Off|cc                  Development Cener
lImprot/Export Co.|l 
I~~l 1- 9 



-56 -                      ANNEX 7
ANNEX 7: INDICATIVE SUPERVISION PLAN
INDICATIVE SUPERVISION PLAN
1.   -FILO would have the primary responsibility for coordination of supervision and
also assisting the provinces in preparing for supervision. A detailed supervision plan
would be prepared by FILO and would be discussed and agreed with the participating
provinces. An important element of the supervision would be to monitor progress and
reform  through adequate use of the monitoring indicators.  The Bank wvould in
collaboration with FILO and the provinces supervise the project twice a year and agree
supervision terrns of reference with them. Following is an indicative supervision plan
including the specific skills required by supervision missions throughout the project.



-57 -                            ANNEX 7
Subiect                   Date             Mission Composition      Staff-Weeks
I. Project Launch Workshop/Review October 1996    Technical Educator (TM)             2
of Implementation Arrangements                 Procurement Specialist               2
for TA                                         Disbursement Specialist              2
Operations Specialist                2
2. Review of TA Implementation    May 1997       Technical Educator (TM)              2
Training Specialist                  2
Operations Specialist                2
3. Annual Supervision According    November 1997  Technical Educator (TM)             2
to Monitoring Indicators                       Training Specialist                  2
Operations Specialist                2
4. Review of Procurement/Dis-    April 1998      Technical Educator (TM)              2
burseinient Practices                          Procurement Specialist               2
Disbursement Specialist             2
Operations Specialist                2
5. Preparation of Mid-term Review   September 1998  Technical Educator (TM)           2
Operations Specialist                2
6. Mid-term Review               November 1998  Technical Educator (TM)               3
others                               6
7. Annual Supervision According    June 1999     Technical Educator (TM)              2
to Monitoring Indicators                       Operations Specialist           .   2
others                               2
8. Review of Reform/Dissemination  December 1999  Technical Educator (TM)             2
Training Specialist                  2
Evaluation Specialist                2
9. Preparation of ICR            May 2000        Technical Educator (TM)              2
Operations Specialist               2
Implementation Specialist           2
10. ICR Mission                  October 2000    Technical Educator (TM)              2
Implementation Specialist           2
Operations Specialist                2



-58 -                       ANNEX8
ANNEX 8: DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Bank          Semester,      Cumulative,        Project        Standard
FY/Semester       $ million       $ million     Cumulative, %    Profile IA, %
1997
Ist            1.5             1.5              5               3
2nd            1.5             3.0             10               6
1998
1 st           3.0             6.0             20             30
2nd            3.0             9.0             30              42
1999
1st            4.0            13.0             43              58
2nd            4.0            17.0             56              66
2000
1st            4.0            21.0             70              74
2nd            4.0            25.0             83              82
2001
1 st           2.0            27.0             90              86
2nd            2.0            29.0             97              90
2002
1st            1.0     ~      30.0            100              94
2nd            0               0                0              98
la Disbursement profile-Bank standard disbursement profile for the education sector in
China.
Completion Date: June 30, 2002
Closing date: December 31, 2002



-59 -                      ANNEX 9
ANNEX 9: TECHNICAL ASSISTAiNCE AND STAFF
TRAINING
TERMS OF REFERENCE AND TRAINING PROGRAMS
INTRODUCTION
1.    Consultant services and staff training will be closely integrated, and focused on
the reform of the vocational education system. The key specialist staff and principals/
managers who are trained overseas will take a leading part in the programs of course
development and management development. The intemational specialists, who will
normally come from institutions which provide overseas training under a link
arrangement, will guide and assist with the planning and implementation of these
developments. The international specialists and overseas trained key staff will also take a
major responsibility in the design and implementation of the domestic staff training
programs.
2.    The program will have the following features:
(a)   the overseas training will be custom designed for a group of 5 to 12
experienced key teachers in each specialization
(b)   the group will attend a seminar prior to the overseas training to agree
individual terms of reference for training
(c)   after the overseas training the key teachers will be responsible for carrying
out the program of course and teaching program development, through
individual work and attendance at seminars and workshops;
(d)   the domestic training program for specialist teachers would be based on
the new curricula, materials and teaching methods developed in the
overseas training and follow-up workshops;
(e)   The international consultants will conduct seminars and workshops for key
teachers after return from overseas to guide and supervise their
development work, and also participate in the domestic program  of
training.
COURSE DEVELOPMNIENT AND SPECIALIST STAFF TRAINING
3.    The following majors will be revised and upgraded under the project:



-60 -                      ANNEX 9
Electronics
Mechanics and mechanical engineerina
Mechanic-electronic, including automatic control and instrumentation
Information Technology
Architecture, civil engineering and construction
Chemical process, including plastics
Textiles and garment making
Tourism and hotel services
4.    The distribution of these majors by province is shown in Table 1. In each field
there are a sufficient number of project schools to enable groups key teachers to be
selected to ensure cost effective custom-designed training under the link arrangement,
and the related employment of intemational specialists. Each field actually covers a very
broad range of specialist studies, which will be linked through core modules.
5.    The strategy and overall plan for course development will be the responsibility of
SEdC: Vocational and Technical Education Department, in consultation with the Expert
Advisory Comnuittee. The development under the project will concentrate mainly on
selected modules, including the laboratory and workshop practice programs, teaching
manuals and related teaching materials and computer software.
6.    An outline program for overseas training, and related intemational consultant
inputs for course development is shown in Table 2.
7.    Overseas training for key staff will comprise custom-designed program of
approximately three months duration of:
(a)   laboratory and workshop practice, focused on problem solving, using
modem equipment as expected to be introduced under the project
(b)   individually planned study and work programs under tutorial guidance
(c)   selected lecture programs, specially arranged for the group
(d)   industrial assignments
8.    The Criteria for Selection of Staff for Overseas Training will include:
(a)   senior teacher status in the selected major in one of the project schools
(b)   age 35 to 45
(c)   commitment, with school endorsement, to participation in the follow-up
program of course development and related domestic staff training
(d)   evidence of reasonable competence in technical English (not the standard
English language proficiency test), sufficient to enable satisfactory



- 61-                        ANNEX9
progress in a custom designed prograrn in an environment in which the
teaching materials are in English, but where there could be backup
explanation in Chinese language.
9.    The outcomes of the training will include:
(a)    upgrading of the technical knowledge of the teachers in their main fields
of specialization;
(b)   improved experience and competence in the design and implementation of
programs of laboratory and workshop teaching, including the efficient
management and utilization of modem equipment and employment of
modem practical learning methods;
tc)    upgrading of teaching methods
(d)    preparation of work schemes for the continued revision and upgrading of
selected parts of the SVS/STS programs, including the design of the
follow-up programn for individual and group preparation of teaching
materials and manuals and the related domestic staff training program.
10.   International consultants will be appointed for the six fields show -n in Table 2 to
provide a total of 24 person-months of services. Each consultant will provide, a total of
three to four months' service, in a series of four or five assignments, each of three to four
weeks duration. Each consultant will have terms of reference that include:
(a)    guide and supervise the course development team (comprising the key
staff who have been trained overseas) in the preparation of teaching
curricula, materials, manuals and practical work programs in selected
specialist subjects or modules;
(b)    conduct follow-up seminars and workshops for the key staff, focused on
the course development_and upgrading in selected topics;
(c)    participate in the domestic staff training in the specialist field.
11.   The international consultants will be selected according to criteria that include:
(a)    good international experience and recognized achievement at a senior level
in vocational education in an environment of rapid successful indusrial
development;
(b)    high level of technical expertise and experience in the specialization;
(c)   farniliarity with, and preferably direct responsibility, for the design and
implementation of the overseas training as described in para. 7;



- 62 -                      ANNEX9
(d)   familiarity with the industrial development and vocational education
system in China;
(e)   capability to communicate in Chinese language
12.   Links with a Foreign Vocational Education System. Links will be formed with
the vocational education system of one or more countries in the region, under which the
programs of overseas training and provision of intemational consultants will be
implemented.  [Details of arrangement for the link(s), outline budgets and outline
memoranda of agreement or undertakings to be signed with the linking institutions will
be prepared by Loan negotiations.]
Domestic Training
13.   The domestic training program will include the following subprogramns:
(a)    Hotel Services and Garments/Textiles:  training for groups of key
specialist teachers;
(b)   Accounting, Food  Processing, Printing, Decoration  and  Animal
Pharmaceutical Production:  training for specialist teachers from the
single school offering the course in each of these majors;
(c)    Specialist-teacher upgrading for all other majors;
(d)    Management training
(e)   Industrial experience
(f)    Professional qualification upgrading
Hotel Service and Garment/ Textile Training
14.   Training, for groups of specialistteachers, will comprise custom-designed programs
of studies and practical work. The training will be based at an institution which has
demonstrated excellent development in the field, for example a school assisted under the
first World Bank Vocational Education project and judged to be a State level key school,
which satisfies the following criteria:
(a)   the school has active intemational links
(b)   the program includes a link with a joint venture enterprise which is already
cooperating with the training institution in teacher training;
(c)   the program will incorporate course development and reform



63-                         ANNEX9
15.   The prograrn will be designed as a block course, with periods in the lead school,
follow-up work in the key staff members' own schools and industrial experience in firms in
the area of the project school, but following a program designed by the lead school and its
cooperating enterprises
Accounting, Food Processing, etc.
16.   For these majors the training program will be provided for a team of teachers from
the single project school offering the major. The above principles will apply. The
program  will be designed and run by an experienced institution which has good
international links. The program will also follow a "block release" form wvith periods of
follow-up development work in the project school, with tutorial guidance/supervision
from the institution responsible for the training program.
Specialist Staff Upgrading Programs
17.   These programs will be provided for groups of specialist teachers from all majors of
all project schools, covering all aspects, but with emphasis on the upgrading of practical
laboratory and workshop teaching and the introduction of new or revised modules and
teaching methods. The intemational consultants, domestic specialists and kev staff who are
trained overseas will be responsible for the design of these programs and plav leading parts
in their implementation.
Management Training
18.   Short courses based on case studies prepared by staff who participate in overseas
study tours combined with taught programs in techniques such as planning, computer
based systems; personnel planning and development, etc.
19.   Industrial experience will be provided through attachments followring a planned
syllabus.
Professional Qualification Upgradiag
20.   Two to three-year programs for upgrading staff qualification for staff involved
with the project majors. The course programs will be modified to reflect the needs of the
project schools. through special teaching methods, etc.
Domestic Consultant Services
21.   Domestic consultant services will provide assistance with the programs of
upgrading courses, preparation of teaching materials and upgrading of management
systems. The domestic consultants will be members, or associate members of the
Specialist Advisory or Expert Panel. As far as possible they will serve as counterparts to
the International Consultants during their assignments in China.  The domestic



- 64 -                      ANNEX 9
consultants should include teachers from first project schools who have been trained
overseas under that project.
MANAGEMENT TRAINING
22.   The program of management staff training and related technical assistance will be
designed to assist implementation of the component for improving management and
efficiency of vocational education. The program will have three interrelated activities:
(a)   overseas study assignments, to examine key features in the policy change
management, development and financing of vocational education in other
countries;
(b)   domestic courses, seminars and workshops, including:
(i)   vocational education institutional management skills training for
senior staff in schools, PEdCs and education offices, including
policy development and analysis, planning, financial management,
resource and personnel management and staff development;
(ii)   design of upgraded school management systems and procedures
and related technical skills training including:
a.    quality assurance through monitoring and evaluation,
analysis of performance and follow-up procedures
b.    efficient management and utilization of laboratories and
workshops
c.    computer-based management systems
d.    project management at the school level
(iii)   training of adm'inistrative staff in operations, particularly in
computer-based systems
(c)   International consultant participation in the overall design of the program
and implementation of key elements of the senior staff training and
development of improved school management systems and procedures.
Domestic consultants will also participate in the delivery of the programns
of seminars, workshops and training.
23.   The design and coordination of the overall program will be the responsibility of
SEdC, with assistance of the Expert Advisory Committee, and the participation of
intemational and domestic consultant(s). An outline program is set out in Table 3. The
detailed program will be designed before negotiations.



Table 1: DIS'I'RIBU'I'ION OFMAJORS BY PROVINCE
Number of Majors to be Supported in Each Province
Major                                       Liaoning   Shandong    Jiangsii   Guangdong    Tianjin        Total
Electronics                                     2           8           1           4           1          16
Radio/ Communication                                              I           1                       2
Mechanics                                       1           7           5           4                      17
Tool and mold design                                                                      2           2
Auto repair                               2                                   3                       5
Marine                                                            I                                   I
Refrigeration and air conditioning                                            I           1           2
Mechanic-electronic/electrical                              1           3           3           7          14
Automatic control/instrumentation         1                                               3           7
Metals/Metallurgy                                                                               1
Information technology (Computing)              9           1           1                       3          14,
Architecture/Civil Eng./Construction/Water                  5           2           5           1          13
Chemical Process/Plastics                       1           2           2                       2           7
Textiles/Garments                               2           2           2           1                       7
Services
Accounting/finance                                                I                                   I
Tourism/hotel services/catering           6                       3                       1          10
Othier                                                                                                                 >
Food processing                                                               I
Veterinary                                                        1                                   1
Printing                                  1                                                                     X
Decoration                                1                                                           I
TOTALS                            26          26          23          23          22         120



Table 2: OUTLINE WOItKING PLAN FOIR OVERSEAS TiAINING AND RELATED FOLLOwY-UP CONSULTANCY INPU T
Overseas Program Date and Number of Staff by Province                   International Consultant Inputs
Major          Date(s)  Liaoning   Shandong   JiangsuL  Guangdonig Tianjin  Total       I
Electronics           1997    2           6           1         3                  12       Ix 4 week in 1997 & 2 x 4 wk in 1998;
& 2x4 wk in 99
Mechanics/ Machinery  1997    1           2           2         3           1      9        Ix 4 week in 1997 & 2 x 4 wk in 1998;
1999    1           1          3         3           1      9         & 2x4 wk in 99
Electro- mechanics    1997    1            1          3        3            5      13       Ix 4 week in 1997 & 2 x 4 wk in 1998;
& 2x4 wk in 99
Information           1997    3                       1                    2       6        Ix 3 wcek in 1997 & 2 x 3 wk in 1998;
Technology                                                                                  & Ix3 wk in 99
Construction          1998    -           2           1         1           1      5        IX 3 weck in 1998, 2x 3 wk in 99, and Ix 3 wk in 00    O
ChemicaV Process      1998    1           1           2                    2       6        As above
Total                       9           13         13        13          12     60
* \~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



Table 3: STI AFF DEVELOIPNIENT AND CONSULTANTI INI'UTS
Sitidy ''ours Id          _                      Consultant Input/Seminars
First Tour   Second      Third       Fourth       Fifthl      1997      1998     1999    2000    2001
09/96      01/97       03/97       06/97       09/97
Management Specialization: Topic   Main Focus Main Focus Main Focus Main Focuis Main FocuIs
National System:                                                                          *
Policy and Strategy
Organization.......
National and regional planniiing
Role of private training sector        *           *                       *
Financing
Financing sources4
Allocation
Training Fund systems                                          4                                         .
Cost recovery approaches
Quality Assurance                         t           *           4           *           4
Accreditation Systems
Monitoring and evaluation                                      *                       *
Training Institution management           4                                   4                                                                     -4
Organization*4
School/project planning
Staff and career development
Budgeting and Financing
Computer based management system.i
Training systems and methods
Training programs                                                          4
Curriculum development systems                                 4
Training methods
Trainee performance assessment
Nonformal training systems                         4
Labor market links                                                                                                                                  > .
Use of LMI
Formal links with industry
Role of industrial training
la All groups will receive an appreciation of all main topics, but each group will also stiudy in depth sclectced aspects as showni.
Note:  Each Consultant Assignment will consist of workshops/seminars covering all developiiment topics, bult therc will be a main emphasis for special
lectures as indicated by the blocks.



.1
DoNn.sicTRAININC PRlOCGRAMS
Total Number       Number             Unit Cost         Total Cost (Y'000)
Target                    Location           Scope          of Trainees      in First Year       (Y/trainee)       Tolal      First Year
1. Key Teachers
1.1 Garments                          Beijing Cos-   Key Teachers: 3    6 x 3 nitlh       6 x 2 moitlihs     1,500 per monitih      27           18
tume Voc &    months in I month
Tmg Center La blocks
1.2 Flotel Services                                  Key Teachers: 3    6 x 3 ninth       6 x 2 mionitlis    1,500 per monitih      27           18
months in I month
blocks
1.3 Accounting, Food Process, etc.                   Teaching groups: 3  5 groups         5 groups           1,500 per month       135           45
monithis in I month   6 x 3 mnth    6 x I mnth
blocks
2. Staff Upgrading                     Various        Specialist subject    30 groups of 10 4 x 1O x Imnonti   1,500 per month    1,800          60
teachiers: 4 months  x 4 monithis
in I mioiith blocks                                                                                    
3. Management                                        4 seminiars per year, 20 seminars                       5 000 per seminar      100
for 15 managers
4. Industrial Experience               Various                                                               nil
5. Professional Qualification Upgrading               240 teachers in 2 &                 24 x I year       3,000 per year        1,800          72
Various       3 year programs
La The Beijing Costume Vocational and Technical Center was assisted unider the first project. It has advanced from SVS stalus to that of Vocational &
Technical Center, with training ranging from SWS throtughi STS to degree lcvel. It has international links: e.g., a cooperation agreemcint with I luddersfield
University, link wi(ih the Chicago 13tisiniess Schiool, cuirrentily pursuing liniks with I lonig Konig. It cooperates very closely with industry, includiniig Joinit
Veniture industry, e.g., one factory with whicih it has close liniks is a joint veniture with Japani, coniceinitatinig on higih quaiulity mein's tailoriig where thie link  Z
includes a strLuctured program of teachier traininig on the productioni processcs- TIhc P'rincipal is of very higih caliber. Staff have been trainied overseas. Ihe
school is proposing reform of tihe examination systein, taking some of the features of the National Vocational Qualification system from  the UK througih the    X
H-uddersfield link.                                                                                                                                       'I



-69 -                        AiNNEX 10
ANNEX 10: REPORT ON A TRACER STUDY OF GRADUATES
FROM SECONDARY VOCATIONAL AND TECHNICAL
SCHOOLS, JANUARY 1994
1.    The absence of systematic data on outcomes has long been an obstacle to
development of policy on vocational education and training in China. When the first
World Bank vocational education project was prepared, for instance, the only such
information available was a list of specializations offered by schools and summary
estimates of placement of SVS graduates in four provinces.' Partly for this reason, it was
decided to precede preparation of a second project by a more systematic tracer survey of
technical/vocational school graduates, intended to throw light on the issue of extemal
efficiency.
2.    Fifty-three schools, including secondary vocational schools (SVS), secondary
technical schools (STS) and some multifunction/combined schools were purposely
selected from  18 cities and counties in Jiangsu, Hebei and Shandong provinces and
Beijing. In each of these schools principals were asked to select (purposely by course but
randomly within courses) 20 graduates from each of the years, 1988, 1990 and 1992, to
whom the questionnaire shown in appendix A was administered. The survey was carried
out and processed at high speed (between the first mission in November 1993 and
February 1994).-
3.    Table I shows the characteristics of the respondents to the survey, classified by
broad subject category and type of school. Among the 2,218 respondents in this table
there is, as can be seen, a wide range of subject coverage, with engineering, agriculture/
forestry and finance/accounting the largest categories.
World Bank, Sector Report: Technical/Vocational Education for China's Development, Report No.
6789-CHA, Washington, August 1987.
2 The excellent work of SEdC (which supervised the survey), the schools (which carried it out) and the
Beijing Information Management School (which processed the data) is gratefully acknowledged.



- 70 -                       ANNEX 10
Table 1: CHARACTERISTICS OF GRADUATES BY SUBJECT AND TYPE OF SCHOOL
Subject/Type of School:                STS             SVS           Combined
Agriculture/Forestry                    114              77              131
Art/Design                               17               3               53
Computing                                 6              26               61
Engineering                             376             453              166
Finance, Accounting                      45              48              127
Foreign Trade                             9                1              20
Health Care                              47               5               51
Hotel/Catering/Tourism                   75              69               15
Office/Business Adm                      28               2               15
Other                                     4              94               80
TotaI                                721             778              719
4.    Table 2 shows the pattem of response by subject and year of graduation.' As can
be seen, there are slightly fewer respondents from earlier years (because of smaller course
enrollments in those years) but the difference is not great enough to affect analysis. The
questionnaire did not contain a question about unemployment (or job waiting) but, as far
as can be ascertained, the incidence of unemployment among those contacted was
negligible.4
Table 2: CHARACTERISTICS OF SAMPLE OF GRADUATES BY SUBJECT AND YEAR OF
GRADUATION
Subject                             1988              1990             1992
Agriculture/Forestry                101                97               124
Art/Design                           15                19               39
Computing                            27                25               41
Engineering                         296               328              310
Finance, Accounting                  59                65                96
Foreign Trade                        12                10                8
Health Care                          52                32                19
Hotel/Catering/Tourism               27                51               82
Office/Business Adm                  20                10                14
Other                                40                82               56
Total                            649               719               789
3 The total in this table is 2,157. The discrepancy with Table I apparently arises because of unanswered
questions, but the number of nonrespondents has not been recorded in any of the Tables.
4 This is in line with expectations, given the state and nature of the labor market and the lapse of time
between graduation and survey.



-71-                          ANNEX 10
5.     Table 3 shows the number of graduates in each year who had been sponsored in
one way or another by enterprises. The fact that the proportion sponsored has reached 26
percent in the case of the most recent graduates, and that 42 percent of sponsorship over
the whole period took the forrn of sponsorship of whole classes, is evidence of the close
links between enterprises and technical/vocational schools, probably unique among
developing countries, as well as of the overheated state of Chinese markets for skilled
labor.
Table 3: NUMBER OF SPONSORED STUDENTS AND FORM OF SPONSORSHIP BY YEAR OF
GRADUATION
Form/Year of graduation                 1988             1990            1992
Applied to Enterprise                     42               35              27
Whole Class Sponsored                     71               99              60
Assigned by School                        40               50             112
Other                                      4                3               6
Total Sponsored                       157              187             205
As % of Total Graduates                   24%             26%              26%
6.     Table 4 shows how sponsorship and its form varied between subjects for the 1992
cohort. The highest rate of sponsorship was, as might be expected, achieved by students
on hotel, catering and tourism courses, followed by the very small number of students of
foreign trade. Students of computing and engineering were also relatively attractive to
sponsors. Problem subjects, from the sponsorship point of view, are art and design,
agriculture and forestry, and health care.
Table 4: NUMBER OF SPONSORED STUDENTS AND FORM OF SPONSORSHIP,
BY SUBJECT, 1992
(As % of total)
Applied to   Whole class   Assigned   Other    Total  Total
enterprise   sponsored    by school       sponsored  students
Agriculturelforestry      2           0           1          1       ;        100
Art/design                0           3           5          0       8        100
Computing                 7           2          17          0      27        100
Engineering               0          10          15          0      26        100
Finance/accounting       10           1           0          2      14        100
Foreign trade            38         13           13          0      63        100
Health care               0           0           0          0       0        100
HoteUcatering/tourism     I         21           63          1      87        100
Officelbusiness adm       7          0           14          0      21        100
Other                    13          13           0          2      27        100
Total                  3           8           14          1     26         100



- 72 -                            ANTNEX 10
7.      Similar evidence is provided by Table 5, which summarizes the routes through
which graduates found their first job. Only 1! percent of the latest batch were assigned
jobs by schools. In 1986, in contrast, the first project's sector report found that between
84 and 95 percent of the SVS graduates surveyed in four provinces were assigned to jobs
by the schools or the labor department. The categorizations of Table 4 are different, but
they do suggest that there has been important progress in the development of labor
markets for technical/vocational school graduates over the past few years.
Table 5: METHOD OF FINDING FIRST JOB
(Percent)
Year of graduation                 1988                 1990               1992
Already sponsored                            18                  23                  15
Practical attachment                        21                   25                 30
Placed by school                             16                  12                 1 1
Graduate selected firm                      27                   27                 27
Firm selected graduate                       16                  12                  13
Other                                         2                   1                   3
Total                                   100                 100                 100
8.      Table 6 shows how methods of finding a first job differed between students of
different subjects in the 1992 cohort. It illustrates the importance of practical attachment
in obtaining jobs for graduates in hotel, etc. studies, the apparently strong market position
of graduates in computing (50 percent of whom "selected firm") and the still relatively
high proportion of graduates in office and business administration placed by schools.
Table 6: METHOD OF F1WDING FIRST JoB, BY SUBJECT, 1992
(% of total)
Already    Practical   Placed by    Graduate   Firm selected
sponsored  attachment   school   selected firm    graduate  Other   Total
Agriculture/forestry     7        11          to         24           24          24      100
Art/design               5        33           5         18           38           0      100
Computing                8        20           5         50           18           0      100
Engineering            20         27          14         31            9           0      100
Finance/accounting      13        33          11         33            9           0      100
Foreign trade          43         14           0         29           14           0      100
Health care             0         37          16         37           11           0      100
HoteUcatering/touris   17         68           9          5            0           1      100
m
Office/business adm     0         24          18         29           29           0      100
Other                  23         38           0         23           17           0      100
Total                15         30         11         27           13            3     100



- 73 -                           ANNEX 10
9.     Further evidence of progress in labor market reform is provided by Table 7, which
shows the fall in the proportion of graduates obtaining lifetime employment, to a mere 15
percent by 1992.
Table 7: TYPE OF EMiPLOYMENT OBTAINED, BY YEAR OF GRADUATION
(as % of total)
1988                 1990                 1992
Lifetime                               26                    26                   15
Contract                               64                    67                   65
Temporary                                5                    4                     8
Self-Employed                            2                     1                    1
FamilyBusiness                           3                     1                   0
Other                                    0                     1                  11
Total                              100                   100                  100
10.    Table 8 shows the variation between subjects in the type of employment obtained,
for the 1992 cohort. The least reconstructed subjects, in terms of the proportion still
obtaining lifetime employiment, are agriculture and health care, the most progressive
hotels/catering/tourism, finance/accounting, engineering and computing.
Table 8: TYPE OF EMIPLOYMENT OBTAINED, BY SUBJECT, 1992
(% of total)
Family
Lifetime   Contract   Temoorarv    Self-emploved   business  Other  Total
Agriculture/forestry    35        34           19            8            0       4    100
Art/design              10        64           26            0            0       0    100
Computing               22        71            7            0            0       0    100
Engineering             I1        73            7            1            0       8    100
Finance/accounting      11        75           10            2            0        1    100
Forcign trade           29        57            0            0           14       0    100
Health care             35         2            0            0            0      63    100
Hotelcatering/tourism    1        86            0            0            1       12    100
Office/business adm     18        65            0            0            0       18    100
Other                    3        66            9            0            0      23    100
Total                15         65           8            1            0       11    100
11.    Table 9 shows that there are also important differences between types of school in
the extent to which terms of service have changed. The proportion of STS graduates
obtaining lifetime employment in 1992 was still 34 percent, while for Combined School
graduates it was 14 percent and for SVS graduates as low as 1 percent. STS graduates are



-74 -                            ANNEX 10
also unrepresented among the self- and family-employed. STSs give the impression, in
these respects, of being less labor-market-oriented than other types of school, particularly
SVSs.
Table 9: TYPE OF FIRST EMNIPLOYLMIENT BY TYPE OF SCHOOL AND YEAR OF
GRADUATION
(% of total)
1988            1990            1992           Averaoe
STS
Lifetime                        55               53              34              46
Contract                        42               43              61              50
Temporary                        3                j               4                3
Self-Employed                    0                0               0                0
Family-                          0                0               0               0
Other                            0                0               0                0
Total                         100             100              100             100
SvS
Lifetime                         5                2               1               2
Contract                        86               97              84              89
Temporary                        6                1               5               4
Self-Employed                    2                0               3               2
Family                            I               0               6               3
Other                            0                0               2                I
Total                  :      100             t00              100             100
Combination
Lifetime                        21               23              14              19
Contract                        65               65              61              64
Temporary                        5                7              20               11
Self-Employed                    4                2               1               2
Family                           2                3              12              11
Other                            0                2               1   -            I
Total                         100             100             100              100
12.    Table 10 shows that, although their proportion has fallen, state owned enterprises
and government administration still dominate as destinations for graduates. Only 9
percent of 1992 graduates went into an enterprise with any private ownership.



-75 -                       ANNEX 10
Table 10: TYPE OF ENTERPRISE IN WHICH FIRST EMIPLOYED, BY YEAR OF
GRADUATION
(% of total)
1988           1990          1992
Govemment administration                   6              6              3
State owned enterprise                    72             70             66
Collective                                 8             13             13
Township/village enterprise                5              6              9
Joint venture                              3              4              6
Foreign                                    2              0              0
Private                                     1             0              1
Small family business                      3              1              2
Total                                 100            100            100
13.   Again there is a significant difference between types of school, as Table 11
shows, with 92 percent of STS graduates still ending up in government or SOEs,
compared with 60 percent of combined school and only 53 percent of STS graduates.
Joint ventures are clearly beginning to show interest in the last two categories.. The table
suggests that the tight connection between STSs and the state sector could usefullly be
loosened.
Table 11: TYPE OF ENTERPRISE IN WHICH FIRST ENIPLOYED BY YEAR OF
GRADUATION AND TYPE OF SCHOOL
(% of total)
1988                1990                1992
STS
Govt Admnin                 7 --                 8                   3
SOE                        83                   80                  89
Collective                  5                    7                   5
TVE                         4                    3                   1
Joint Venture               0                    2                   3
Foreign                     0                    0                   0
Private                     0                    0                   0
Famnily                     0                    0                   0
Total                    100                  100                 100



-76 -                               AlNNEX 10
1988                     1990                      1992
SVS
Govt Admin                          4                        4                         3
SOE                                69                       64                        50
Collective                         10                        13                       15
TVE                                 3                        10                       14
Joint Venture                       9                         8                       10
Foreign                             0                        0                         0
Private                             I                        0                         3
Family                              3                        0                         4
Total                           100                       100                      100
Combined
Govt Admin                          8                        5                         3
SOE                                65                       67                        57
Collective                         10                        17                       21
TVE   -                             6                        6                        10
Joint Venture                       3                         1                        7
Foreign                             0                        0                         0
Private                             2                        0                         l
Family                              6                        3                         2
Total                           100                      100                       100
14.    Table 12 shows the variations between subject in the type of enterprise in which
1992  graduates were  first employed.   Interestingly, the  subjects with  the  highest
proportion going to state enterprises are hotels/catering and computing. Engineering
graduates are well represented in other types of enterprises, such as collectives, township
and village enterprises and joint ventures.
Table 12: TYPE OF ENTERPRISE IN WHICH FIRST EMPLOYED, BY SUBJECT, 1992
(% of total)
Govt.                             Joint                      Family
admin.  SOE   Collecj.ve  TVE   venture  Foreign   Private  business   Total
Agriculture/forestry     6      48       15        9       3        0        6        13       100
Art/design               3      46       41        0       5        3        0         3       100
Computing                5      78       12        0       2        0        2         0       100
Engineering              1      61       13       13      11        0        1         0       100
Finance/accounting       4      71       11        13      0        0        1         0       100
Foreign trade           13      25       13        13    25         0        0        13       100
Health care              0      90        0        0       0       10        0         0       100
HoteUcatering/tourism    0      96        0         1      1        0        0         1       100
Office/business adm      0       50      50        0       0        0        0         0       100
Other                    9      75       12        4       0        0        0         0       100
Total                 3       66       13        9      6        0        1         2       100
15.    Selection of the courses for the survey largely deterrnines the sectors to which
graduates go. Light and heavy industry is still the main destination, as Table 13 shows,
but the growing importance of the hotel, catering and tourism sector is indicated.



- 77 -                        AiNiNEX 10
Table 13: SECTOR OF FIRST EMPLOYMIENT, BY YEAR OF GRADUATION
(% of total)
1988              1990              1992
Manufacturing                        44                 45               48
Heavy industry                        4                  7                 8
Transport                             3                  3                 1
Communications                        4                  3                 5
Construction                          1                  3                 3
Conmnerce                             9                  8                 5
Bank/finance                          6                  3                 5
Hotel/catering/tourism                5                  5                10
Other                                24                24                 16
Total                            100                100              100
16.   Table 14 shows the differences in sector of first employment between different
types of school. The SVSs are still most oriented towards industry, but are apparently
losing ground to the STSs in the catering sector.
Table 14: SECTOR OF FIRST EMPLOYINIENT, BY YEAR OF GRADUATION AND
TYPE OF SCHOOL
(% of total)
1988               1990              1992
STS
Manufacturing                      45                 49                41
Heavy industry                      8                 10                 11
Transport                           1                  3                  1
Communications                      6                  3                 4
Construction                        8                  6                 4
Commerce                            4                  2                 0
Bank/finance                        0                  0                 0
HoteVcatering/tourism               0                  0                21
Other                              27                 27                 16
Total                            100                100               100



- 78 -                         AINNEX 10
1988               1990                1992
svs
Manufacturing                        58                 61                  52
Heavy industry                        3                  5                   7
Transport                             1                   6                  2
Communications                        8                   1                  9
Construction                          I                   I                  0
Commerce                              4                  4                   8
Bank/finance                          2                  4                   3
Hotel/catering/tourism               1O                 11                   6
Other                                13                  7                  12
Total                             100                 100                100
Combined
Manufacturing                       35                  26                  47
Heavy industry                        0                  2                   4
Transport                             4                  2                   1
Communications                        1                  3                   3
Construction                          2                  4                   4
Commerce                             11                 17                  10
Bank/finance                         11                  6                  11
Hotel/catering/tourism                4                  4                   4
Other                                32                 37                  17
Total                             100                 100                100
17.    An indicator of the extent to which employers value school graduates is the
proportion who have been promoted or changed job since starting work, as shown in
Table 15. For the earliest cohort it is as high as 37 percent. A high proportion (in
relation to Chinese norms) has also changed employers, of whom 56 percent claimed to
have done so in search of better work conditions, 28 percent for higher wages, and 9
percent for a better location. This is a particularly interesting indicator of marketability
which is worth regular monitoring.
Table 15: INDICATORS OF PRODUCTIVITY AND MOBILITY BY YEAR OF GRADUATION
-t% of total)
1988              1990              1992
Promoted or changed job                 37                 36                24
Changed employer                         11                 9                10
18.    Table 16 shows differences between subjects in the proportion of 1988 graduates
who had been promoted or changed employers by the time of the survey. Apart from the
small sample of art/design and foreign trade graduates, the highest promotion rates were
achieved by office/business administration, engineering and hoteL/catering graduates,



-79-                            ANNEX 10
while the highest mobility rates were found among office/business administration and
computing graduates.
Table 16: INDICATORS OF PRODUCTIVITY AND MOBILITY, BY SUBJECT, 1988 COHORT
(% of total)
Promoted/ changed job     Changed emplover           Total
Agriculture/forestry                   20                        14                100
Art/design                             53                        13                100
Computing                              19                        22                100
Engineering                            45                         7                100
Finance/accounting                     36                        12                100
Foreign trade                          75                        25                100
Health care                            12                         8                100
HoteL/catering/tourism                 44                         4                100
Office/business adm                    50                        25                100
Other                                  40                        23                100
Total                               37                        11                100
19.    A final indicator of outcomes of training, shown in Tables 17, is average earnings.
Levels of earnings in government and SOEs are lower than in other types of enterprise.
In general, the current earnings of 1988 graduates in units other than government
administration and SOEs compare favorably with average national wage earnings (in the
bottom row of the table), given that such graduates have only been working for five
years.
Table 17: AVERAGE EARNINGS, INITIAL AND PRESENT (1993) BY YEAR OF
GRADUATION AND INITIAL SECTOR
(Yuan per month)
1988          1990           1992
Govemrnent administration
Initial                                 65            73             78
Present                                 98            102           106
State-owned enterprise
Initial                                 58            60             66
Present                                121           101             94
Collective
Initial                                 62            69             75
Present                                117            116           112
Town/village enterprise
Initial                                 93            80             99
Present                               238            153            146



- 80 -                           ANMN1X 10
1988          1990           1992
Joint Venture
Initial                                56             65            67
Present                               192            115           117
Private
Initial                               130            120           193
Present                               650           300            301
Family business
Initial                               105            140           159
Present                               240              -           269
National average wage earnings         146            178           226         281 (1993)
of which:
SOEs                                  154            190           240         294 (1993)
Urban collectives                     119            140           176        216 (1993)
Other ownership                       199            249            31         414(1993)
20.    A fully-fledged cost/outcome analysis, using these wage data and the information
on cost, enrollment and output is not possible because of the lack of comparable data on
other types of school. If similar data were available on secondary academic schools, for
instance, the difference between the streams of earnings of secondary technical/vocational
school graduates and those of (otherwise similar) lower secondary general school
graduates could be compared with cost per graduate. Internal rates of return could even
be calculated if desired.5 Given the nature of the Chinese labor market (which on balance
still displays more of the characteristics associated with a planned rather than a market
economy) this would be a hazardous venture, but it would be worth attempting if the
control-group data were available.
21.    In their absence, the results of the survey reported on in this paper are consistent
with a trend towards improvement in the external efficiency of technical and vocational
schools. As many as one third of 1992 graduates had been sponsored by enterprises.
Most graduates now find jobs by other means than allocation, and an increasing
proportion use government labor exchanges for this purpose. The proportion obtaining
lifetime employment has dwindled and contracts are now the predominant arrangement.
The proportion finding jobs in government administration and state enterprises is still
high but falling. A high proportion of graduates had been promoted or changed jobs by
the time of the survey and the percentage who had changed employer was also high in
relation to national norms. And the current wages of 1988 graduates compare favorably
with national average earnings.
5 Although this would require estimating the additional costs of compensatory training of secondary
academic school graduates incurred by employers to bring them up to the initial level of
technical/vocational school graduates (estimated by some employers to take a few months).



-81-                         ANNEX 11
ANNEX 11: SELECTED DOCUMENTS
IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.    Project Implementation Plan (PIP);
B.    Revised PIP;
C.    School Development Plans (82 project schools);
D.    Revised School Development Plans (82 project schools).






MAP SECTION






,n   *s  01 80 sr-                                                                ,io                     1110j -                   120     -~                                          4,9          '   -
RUSSIAN        ,,~---                                      *~  ~
FEDERATION  ,'  L
KAZAKSTAN                                        .    7                                                                     S                                 T  i
, r    ---                i_                                                                                          -  ^j7srt  w.,2j
\-r  -    t<,   >                                                                        j9 t  u9  Uloranbsaut$  '  * >   Hnrbin   fiL xJf, llatOI 3 
UZBEKISTAN  Am                      009I                    NUcnatr.'                                                                                                                                          01
LF m  Atta * SHIAlm                                                             MONGOLIA                                     (
T,        *   ~~~~~~ ~~~* =,  iU      Kuhua                ,                                                                                               g tQ  1giulXr _                                 t
_     Fru nze      0,                              0   o mgto                                                          '.yL13                                               >/
S;    -KYRGYZ'"--'                             1U-up                 .<                                                            r  r                s ,' !
.REPUBLIC       .Y. O,  '-
REPUBUC /~~>*]~'U , 8 ro                                     K     *                                                                        t-t ff$3sn                                 o SeSa of  JAPAN o,
nTAJIKISTAN                                      --4"                          -                                                                       LLAQNI .G
\.              ,''U-                          j               ; ,,, ,,, +20 rbDEM  -4EP
i.-'t_l   & ;-           2                                                   <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~23   Bei   gitg   S0f)y5Fngt j\                       o                 1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bii  6 jT-1
'~~~~~~~~~~~~4) ~ ~ ~ ~        ~         ~         ~         ~        rh
t ~   S            Tongellujft          t.       i       rDngdoo            \   ffi Ti -,,  Yellow
::lAD,   ;z H, o Jr ) /7t Gr jj ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KR~A, 
Seaul
Ihe    _____                                                                                                                      Beijing*3 roos *eoilZoi  ,0  IL ;/t>yngG           , 
9,~ ~~~~;
.,n'Yde        rtmlohpu                                                                                                      l ... ._B3 Xi'nf          n Zegzhou-g     East China 'J3
T"  .y dg-                                                                                                                           Sea~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~->  e
Thyeboodo,,em9l colourscp 0199919ol'u.h 9999                                                                                                                 7_ 
bondotyrl'o'  '91c..oo909I00I,                                                                                                                            t
SHeleiW   j: \      HnGNCHAI SHI
NEPA&,                 '- h-
0 ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     1
AAN:,                                 ~~~~~~~PACIFIC
CHINA                                                                                           .0r9'            -        .4uzsoo                           OCEAN
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION                                                                        ui
REFORM  PROJECT                                                    K-ning;                                                                Tft/'                                           20-N
*    UNf f.NAN                                     U^ B <<                                                                   20r
JIANGSU PROJECT P,ICN( f I                                                                                  Ha a\GX  g -o = Sh-t.
N.LOE9E "-9'I'S Z'Do,                                                                                      HONG KONG, U.K.
a-                                 PPo 0<0E'TE[ 00DW ruS  tr4D C T                                                                                                         F S Z <P)  \-  Vl ET NAM  _swi -7  / \ _ i _ MACAO, PORT  e.orrmsr.  orLS   <0  0907   I99 E  n   h  7
C                                                                                >t Ar11
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7                                                                                   South Ch;Fiu0-
ckOot *0 9.90!czl4ap99 9      \LAO PEOPLE'S)                                                                 5              P iINES
-a                         -*-oc.TeFllAT<->o;Lsc,LlrcOAFrK    EHAILAK5DEM  REP?                                                                   SeAINAT)I
I0 ,_________________________________________                            _A ,,N /                       _- <                 4      Nr                              17r        ,Ni









IMAGING
Report No:       15473 CHA
Type: SAR



