Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2898 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Vocational Education Reform Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 13, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2898 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 13, 1996, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank) to provide additional assistance towards the financing of 
the Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the 
Bank (the Loan Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an 
aggregate principal amount equivalent to ten million Dollars ($10,000,000) (the Loan);
(C)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of 
expenditures in respect of the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the 
Loan provided for in the Loan Agreement are made; and
(D)
the Project Entities (as defined in Section 1.02 (e) of this Agreement) 
will carry out Parts A and B of the Project with the Borrower's assistance and, as 
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Project Entities a 
portion of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement and a portion of 
the proceeds of the Loan as provided in the Loan Agreement; and
Page  2
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Allocated Amount" means, in respect of each Project Entity, an amount of 
the Credit and the Loan allocated by the Borrower to said Project Entity pursuant to 
paragraph C.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and to be utilized by said Project 
Entity for purposes of carrying out its respective Vocational Education Program.
(b)
"FILO" means the SEdC's Foreign Investment Loan Office, maintained in 
accordance with paragraph A of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
"Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between the 
Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to 
time; and such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such agreement, and all 
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement.
(d)
"PEdC" means, in respect of each Project Entity, the education commission 
of such Project Entity, and any successor thereto.
(e)
"Project Entities" means, collectively, the Borrower's Provinces of 
Guangdong, Jiangsu, Liaoning and Shandong and the Municipality of Tianjin, and 
"Project Entity" means any of the Project Entities.
(f)
"Project Schools" means, collectively, the secondary vocational and 
technical schools selected to participate in the Project, and "Project School" means 
any of the Project Schools.
(g)
"SEdC" means the Borrower's State Education Commission, and any successor 
thereto.
(h)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
(i)
"Vocational Education Program" means, in respect of each Project Entity, 
the activities under Parts A and B of the Project which are to be carried out by said 
Project Entity utilizing the proceeds of its respective Allocated Amount.
(j)
"Vocational Education Program Implementation Arrangement" means, in 
Page  3
respect of each Vocational Education Program, the arrangements referred to in 
paragraph C.1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, to be made between the Borrower and the 
Project Entity which proposes to carry out said Vocational Education Program, as the 
same may be amended from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirteen million eight hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 13,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a financial institution and on terms and 
conditions, both satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment 
date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1, 2006 and ending May 1, 2031. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 1, 2016 shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 Dollars for 
Page  4
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
nder paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out Part C of the Project through SEdC, and cause the Project Entities to carry 
out Parts A and B thereof, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, technical and education practices and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project, or cause the Project to be carried out, in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Page  5
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than eight (8) months after the end of each such year, (A) a 
certified copy of 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have reasonably 
requested and (B) consolidated copies of 
the audit reports 
furnished to the Borrower by each Project Entity pursuant to 
the 
provisions of paragraph B.8 of the Annex to Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any Project Entity shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Vocational Education Program Implementation Arrangement to which it is a 
party.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that any Project Entity will be able to perform its obligations 
under the Vocational Education Program Implementation Arrangement to which it is a 
party.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that any event specified in Section 
5.01 (a) of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) 
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Page  6
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
a Vocational Education Program Implementation Arrangement has been 
entered into between the Borrower and each Project Entity; and
(b)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement shall 
have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that each of the Vocational 
Education Program Implementation Arrangements referred to in Section 6.01 (a) of this 
Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the Project Entity 
party thereto, and are legally binding upon the Borrower and said Project Entity in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Zhou Wenzhong
Page  7
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Russell Cheetham
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit 
and of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
                         Amount       Amount
                         of the       of the
                          Credit       Loan
                        Allocated    Allocated
                       (Expressed   (Expressed          % of
                         in SDR      in Dollar       Expenditures
Category               Equivalent)   Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Goods                                          (100% of foreign
                                                    (expenditures,
     (a) under Part    9,970,000     1,530,000      (100% of local
         A (4) of the                               (expenditures
         Project                                    ((ex-factory
                                                    (cost) and 75%
     (b) under Part      710,000     6,970,000      (of local
         A (6) of the                               (expenditures for
         Project                                    (other items
                                                    (procured locally
(2)  Consultants'
     services and      1,050,000                    100%
     training
(3)  Unallocated       2,070,000     1,500,000
     TOTAL            13,800,000    10,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made: (a) for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) for expenditures under Category (1) (a) of paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule, until the Borrower has employed consultants for the provision of training 
and technical assistance in the implementation of Part A (3) of the Project in 
accordance with Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Loan 
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for (a) 
Page  8
goods, under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each, (b) consultants' 
services under contracts awarded to firms, costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, 
(c) consultants' services under contracts awarded to individuals, costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent each and (d) training, in each case under such terms and conditions 
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to: (1) improve and 
increase the supply of skilled labor to help meet labor market demands in areas under 
the jurisdiction of the Project Entities; (2) raise the quality and efficiency of the 
vocational education and training systems under the Project Entities; and (3) 
strengthen the capacity of agencies of the Borrower for monitoring, evaluating and 
disseminating pilot experiences and replication of vocational and technical education.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Development of Project Schools for Vocational Education
 
Carrying out, in selected Project Schools in each of the Project Entities, 
programs to improve the quality and efficiency of secondary vocational and technical 
education, consisting of:
(1)
design, testing and implementation of selected new and revised course modules;
 
(2)
review and upgrading of the system for examination of students' vocational 
qualifications and certification;
(3)
upgrading of skills and experience of teachers in the fields of electronics, 
electromechanics, mechanics and machinery and information technology through staff 
training programs in cooperation with selected overseas vocational educational 
programs and the provision of
consultants' services;
(4)
provision of equipment in support of Part A (3) of the Project;
 
(5)
upgrading of skills and experience of teachers in the fields of chemical process 
and construction through staff training programs in cooperation with selected overseas 
vocational educational programs and the provision of consultants' services;
(6)
provision of equipment in support of Part A (5) of the Project; and
 
(7)
upgrading of laboratory and workshop facilities of the selected Project Schools 
through construction of new and rehabilitation of existing buildings.
Part B:
Improving Management and Planning of Vocational Education
 
Enhancing the capacity of the principals and other management staff of Project 
Schools in planning and management through: (1) provision of management training, 
overseas study tours and domestic workshops; (2) development of industrial advisory 
committees to formalize links between
industry and Project Schools; and (3) design and implementation of a school-based 
labor market information system, including the provision of consultants' services and 
related staff training.
Part C:
Project Management Support
 
Strengthening the capacity of management and staff of Project Entities and 
Project Schools in project management, through provision of staff training and 
consultants' services.
* * *
Page  9
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions 
of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Notification and Advertising
 
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be  advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
 
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent and more than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $30,000,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,900,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association and the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Page  10
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association and the 
Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, 
other standard forms acceptable to the Association and the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association and Bank review or approval of 
budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, 
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment 
of consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) 
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Association and Bank review shall 
not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source 
selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably 
determined by the Association and the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or 
above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants 
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01(b) 
of this Agreement.
A.
Project Management
 
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall 
maintain FILO throughout the period of Project implementation  as the body with 
overall responsibility for Project implementation, with terms of reference, 
membership, staffing and other resources acceptable to the Association.
B.
Monitoring and Reporting
 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.06 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall, through SEdC:
1.
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, 
progress in the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
2.
prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association:
(a)
not later than April 1 in each year, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities carried out by it pursuant to paragraph B.1 
above in respect of the calendar year immediately preceding the date of said report, 
consolidating the reports furnished to it by each Project Entity pursuant to paragraph 
B.6 (a) of the Annex to this Schedule, and setting forth any proposed measures, 
indicated by said monitoring and evaluation activities, to
further the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
not later than December 31, 1998, or such later date as the Association 
Page  11
shall request, a report summarizing the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities carried out by it pursuant to paragraph B.1 above from the inception of the 
Project, consolidating the reports furnished to it by each Project Entity pursuant to 
paragraph B.6 (b) of the Annex to this Schedule, and setting forth any proposed 
measures, indicated by said monitoring and evaluation activities, to further the 
objectives of the Project; and
3.
review with the Association the report furnished by the Borrower pursuant to 
paragraph B.2(b) above, and thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association's 
views on the matter.
C.
Vocational Education Program Implementation Arrangements
 
1.
For the purposes of the carrying out by each Project Entity of its respective 
Vocational Education Program, the Borrower shall allocate to said Project Entity an 
amount of the Credit and of the Loan, under arrangements to be made between the 
Borrower and said Project Entity, in accordance with the provisions set forth in the 
Annex to this Schedule.
2.
The Borrower shall:
 
(a)
(i) cause each Project Entity to perform, in accordance with the 
provisions of the Vocational Education Program Implementation Arrangement to which 
said Project Province is a party, all of the obligations therein set forth; (ii) take 
or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable said Project Entity 
to perform such obligations; and (iii) not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance; and
(b)
exercise its rights under each of the Vocational Education Program 
Implementation Arrangements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower 
and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive any of the 
Vocational Education Program Implementation Arrangements or any provision thereof. 
D.
Training and Technical Assistance
 
1.
The Borrower shall: (a) carry out training and technical assistance aspects of 
the Project in accordance with plans satisfactory to the Association; and (b) employ 
consultants for the provision of training and technical assistance in the 
implementation of Parts A (3) and A (5) of the Project.
ANNEX
to
SCHEDULE 4
For the purposes of Part C of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Vocational 
Education Program Implementation Arrangements shall include the following provisions:
A.
Terms
 
1.
The principal amount of each Allocated Amount provided out of the proceeds of 
the Credit which shall be recovered by the Borrower from each Project Entity:
(a)
shall be the equivalent in SDR (determined on the date or respective 
dates of withdrawal from the Credit Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn or paid out, on account of the cost of goods and services for 
said Project Entity's respective Vocational Education Program to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit; and
(b)
shall be recovered by the Borrower in Dollars in an amount equal to the 
equivalent (determined as of the date or respective dates of repayment) of the amount 
referred to in paragraph A.1(a) above.
2.
The principal amount of each Allocated Amount provided out of the proceeds of 
Page  12
the Loan which shall be recovered by the Borrower from each Project Entity:
(a)
shall be the equivalent in Dollars (on the date or respective dates of 
withdrawals from the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so 
withdrawn or paid out, on account of the cost of goods and services for said Project 
Entity's respective Vocational Education Program to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan; and
(b)
shall be recovered by the Borrower in Dollars in an amount equal to the 
equivalent (determined as of the date or respective dates of repayment) of the amount 
referred to in paragraph A.2 (a) above.
3.
Each Allocated Amount shall be recovered by the Borrower over a period of twenty 
(20) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years.
4.
Interest shall be charged on the principal amount of each Allocated Amount 
withdrawn and remaining unrecovered from time to time, at a rate equal to four percent 
(4%) per annum.
5.
Each Project Entity shall undertake to make available to each of the Project 
Schools within its jurisdiction, to finance in part Project activities carried out by 
such Project School, a portion of the proceeds of its Allocated Amount on the same 
terms and conditions set out in paragraphs A.1-A.4 above.
B.
Conditions
 
Implementation
1.
Each Project Entity shall undertake to carry out its respective Vocational 
Education Program with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with 
appropriate economic, financial, administrative, technical and education practices, 
and provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required therefor.
2.
Each Project Entity shall undertake to:
 
(a)
prepare, and cause each Project School within its jurisdiction to prepare 
with respect to Project activities to be carried out by said Project School, in 
accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to the 
Borrower and the Association not later than October 15 in each year for review and 
approval, a proposed plan for the implementation of its Vocational Education Program 
for the following year; and
(b)
thereafter carry out such Vocational Education Program in accordance with 
such plan as shall have been approved by the Borrower and the Association.
3.
Each Project Entity shall undertake to:
 
(a)
procure the goods and services required for its Vocational Education 
Program to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(b)
insure said goods against hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, any indemnity 
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by said Project Entity to 
replace or repair such goods;
(c)
utilize such goods and services exclusively for the purposes of carrying 
out its Vocational Education Program;
(d)
enable the Association and the Borrower to examine such goods and all 
facilities, sites and works included in its Vocational Education Program, the 
operation thereof and any relevant records and documents; and
(e)
at all times operate and maintain any facilities, equipment and other 
property relevant to its Vocational Education Program, and promptly as needed make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
Page  13
financial, administrative, technical and education practices.
Management
4.
In order to facilitate the implementation of its Vocational Education Program, 
each Project Entity shall undertake to maintain, or cause to be maintained, the 
following offices throughout the
period of implementation thereof, with terms of reference, membership, staffing and 
other resources satisfactory to the Association:
(a)
a Provincial Project Implementation Office (PPIO) to manage the carrying 
out of the Project within the jurisdiction of the Project Entity; and
(b)
with respect to each Project School, a School Project Planning 
Implementation Office (SPPIO) to coordinate Project activities pertaining to such 
school, and a School Governing Board
(SGB) and School Industrial Advisory Committee (SIAC) to participate in Project 
implementation.
Monitoring
5.
Each Project Entity shall undertake to maintain policies and procedures adequate 
to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with 
indicators satisfactory to the Association, progress in the carrying out of its 
Vocational Education Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
Reporting
6.
Each Project Entity shall undertake to prepare with respect to its Vocational 
Education Program, and shall cause each Project School within its jurisdiction to 
prepare with respect to Project activities carried out by said Project School, in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to
the Association, and furnish to the Borrower:
(a)
not later than March 1 in each year, a report for consolidation in each 
report to be furnished by the Borrower to the Association pursuant to the provisions 
of paragraph B.2 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities carried out by the Project Entity pursuant to 
paragraph B.5 of this Annex in respect of the calendar year immediately preceding the 
date of said report, and setting forth any proposed measures, indicated by said 
monitoring and evaluation activities, to further the objectives of the Vocational 
Education Program; and
(b)
not later than November 30, 1998, or such later date as the Association 
shall request, a report for consolidation in the report to be furnished by the 
Borrower to the Association pursuant to the provisions of paragraph B.2(b) of Schedule 
4 to this Agreement, summarizing the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities carried out by the Project Entity pursuant to paragraph B.5 of this Annex 
from the inception of the Vocational Education Program, and setting forth any proposed 
measures, indicated by said monitoring and evaluation
activities, to further the objectives of the Vocational Education Program.
Consultation
7.
Each Project Entity shall undertake to exchange views with the Borrower and the 
Association on each report furnished by it pursuant to paragraph B.6 of this Annex, 
and thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of its 
Vocational Education Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on 
the conclusions and recommendations of the report and the Borrower's and Association's 
views on the matter.
Financial Reporting
8.
Each Project Entity shall undertake to:
 
(a)
maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
Page  14
expenditures in respect of its Vocational Education Program of its departments or 
agencies responsible for carrying out said Vocational Education Program or any part 
thereof, including separate accounts relating to each Project School;
(b)
have said records and accounts, for each fiscal year, audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(c)
furnish to the Borrower, as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, for consolidation and forwarding 
to the Association pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.01(b) of this Agreement, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(d)
furnish to the Borrower and the Association such other information 
concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Borrower or the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit or the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 
6,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
Page  15
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan 
Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account or the 
Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement or from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement and Article V of 
the General Conditions applicable thereto; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account or the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 
of the applicable General Conditions; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories for the Project, less the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Association or the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
respective General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for 
the Project shall follow
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association or the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association or the Bank such outstanding amount.
Page  16
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association or the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association or the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), 
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Loan 
Account, as the case may be, for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of the  Development Credit Agreement or the 
Loan Agreement, including the General Conditions applicable thereto.
