Document of
The Wo. d ari   FILE COPY
FOPi OFFICIAL U'SE O-LY
Report No. P-2633-UNI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
NATIONAL ELECTRIC POWER AUTHORITY
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
FEDERAL REPUBLITC O NTIGERIA
FOR A
LAGOS POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
October 25, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Naira (N)
US$1          - Naira 0.65
Ni            - US$1.54
MEASURES AND UNITS OF MEASUREMENT
1 cubic meter (m3)   -  35.3 cubic feet
1 kilometer (km)        0.62 mile
1 kilovolt (kV)-        1000 volts
I Megawatt (MW)      =  1000 kilowatts
I Kilowatt hour (kwh)
ABBREVIATIONS
ECN      -       Electricity Corporation of Nigeria
EIB      -       European Investment Bank
NDA      -       Niger Dams Authority
NEPA     -       National Electric Power Authority
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA - LAGOS POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           National Electric Power Authority
Guarantor:          Federal Republic of Nigeria
Amount:             US$100.0 million, equivalent
Terms:              Payable over 20 years, including 5 years of grace,
at an interest rate of 7.95 percent per annum. NEPA
would carry the foreign exchange risk.
Project             The project would assist in:  (a) meeting the rapidly
Description:      rising demand for electricity in the Lagos metropolitan
area between 1979/80 and 1985/86 by expanding (i) the
high-tension system of lines and sub-stations at 132
and 33 kV, fed from the 330 kV national grid, and
(ii) the 11 kV and low-tension distribution system;
and (b) setting up and carrying out a staff training
program through provision of 26 man-years of experts
and instructors and related training equipment and
materials. The project faces some risks associated
with the possible reorganization of the power sector
and the need for NEPA to engage promptly additional
permanent staff for its Training and Personnel Depart-
ments.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the lperformance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.|



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
Total     Foreign       Local
---------(US$ million)------
Laxos Distribution
High-tension system
Equipment, engineering and construction  78.1           60.3         17.8
Design and supervision                       6.4         4.2          'P.2
Import duties                                6.9          -           6.9
Physical contingencies                       6.9         4.8          2.1
Base cost                               98.3       69.3         29.0
Price contingencies                         32.0        13.4         18.6
130.3       82.7         47.6
Distribution system
Equipment and construction                  46.9        32.2         13.7
Administration, engineering and
supervision                                9.9         1.4         8.5
Import duties                                4.8          -           4.8
Physical contingencies                       4.6         2.6          2.0
Base cost                               66.2       37.2         29.0
Price contingencies                         21.4         6.1         15.3
Total                                  87.6        43.3         44.3
Training Program
Experts                                      2.3         1.6          0.7
Equipment                                    1.1         0.9          0.2
Base cost                               3.5        2.6          0.9
Price contingencies                          0.8         0.4          0.4
Total                                   4.3        3.0          1.3
Total cost (excl. taxes)                        206.1       129.0         77.1
Total cost (incl. taxes)                        222.2       129.0         93.2
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                       100.0       100.0         -
EIB                                         35.0        28.6          6.4
Federal Government loans
and/or internal cash generation           87.2         0.4        86.8
Total                                           222.2       129.0         93.2



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursement:         ------------------------…US$ Million…-----------------…
Bank FY       1980       1981       1982       1983       1984
Annual         7.5       20.0       31.5       ;28.5      12.5
Cumulative    7.5        27.5       59.0       37.5      100.0
Rate of Return:          20 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:               2502-UNI, dated October 1, 1979.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NATIONAL ELECTRIC POWER AUTHORITY
FOR A LAGOS POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the National Electric Power Authority (NEPA) -ith the guarantee of
the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the equivalent of US$100 million to help
finance a project for power distribution in Lagos. The loan would have a term
of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 7.95 percent per
annum. NEPA would carry the foreign exchange risk. The European Investment
Bank (EIB) is discussing with NEPA the possibility of providing a loan in
parallel with the Bank for the equivalent of UA25 million (about US$35.0
million). If agreed upon, the EIB loan is expected to have a term of about
16 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at about 7 percent per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum on Nigeria (Report 2428-UNI), dated
June 19, 1979, has been distributed to the Executive Directors. The follow-
ing paragraphs summarize and update the major findings and conclusions of that
report. Country data are attached as Annex I.
Political Background
3.        Following 13 years of military rule, a civilian government assumed
office in Nigeria on October 1, 1979. The government is headed by Mr. Shehu
Shagari, leader of the National Party of Nigeria, which emerged from the
elections as the party with the greatest and widest support. The economic
policies of the new administration have yet to be formulated in detail.
Nevertheless, Mr. Shagari has indicated that his policies with respect to
domestic and foreign affairs will follow the same broad principles as those
espoused by the outgoing administration. Rural development, increased food
production, education and low-cost housing are expected to be focal points of
the new administration's program. A greater role of the private sector in
development is envisaged.
Economic Developments 1974-78
4.        Nigeria has an estimated population of about 80 million (1978),
with a per capita income of around US$560. Per capita income alone, however,
is not a satisfactory indicator of the average living standard in Nigeria.
In terms of such criteria as child mortality, life expectancy, and number



- 2 -
of people per physician, Nigeria ranks amongst the poorest countries in the
world. Oil has been a major resource for Nigeria for over a decade, but
it acquired a dominating influence in the economy only after the sharp
escalation of the oil price in 1973/74. Within a year, the oil revenues
tripled, rising to over US$6.5 billion (roughly US$100 per capita) in 1974/75;
a corresponding increase occurred in the foreign exchange earnings. This
occurred at a time when Nigeria depended primarily on agriculture for income
and employment. It had only a small industrial base and the existing infra-
structure was deficient and in a very poor state.
5.         The nation's first concern at that time was to use the oil wealth to
improve greatly - indeed revolutionize - the state of the country's social and
physical infrastructure, and establish heavy industry. The Government simul-
taneously set out to achieve satisfactory growth of agriculture and light
manufacturing to ensure broadly-based economic progress. All these concerns
were underscored in the Third National Development Plan (1975-80). The plan
was prepared in the midst of the oil boom and reflected the optimism and
confidence of that time. It contemplated a total investment program of about
US$50 billion (representing a three-fold increase over the previous plan
period), with the public sector accounting for about US$35 billion (sub-
sequently raised close to US$45 billion due to cost increases). The public
sector program contained large allocations for transport (28 percent) and
industry (19 percent), and an ambitious goal of free and compulsory universal
primary education (UPE) by 1980 was set. The economy was expected to grow at
9.5 percent a year, with agriculture growing at 5 percent and manufacturing
at 18 percent.
6.         The actual course of events, however, turned out to be quite dif-
ferent. In the post-oil boom period, the Nigerian economy grew at an average
rate of 6 percent a year. There was little increase in the agricultural
output and the growth of manufacturing, at 12 percent a year, remained below
the Third Plan target. Although construction, power, transport, and public
services expanded at around 20 percent a year, serious physical bottlenecks
emerged. Acute power shortages and congested ports and roads undermined the
productivity of the existing industrial plants, upset the normal distribution
channels and caused consumer frustration. These factors contributed to the
rapid increase in production costs, which in turn made it generally difficult
for domestic production in both agriculture and manufacturing to compete with
foreign produced goods. Because the fastest growing tertiary sectors are
concentrated in the urban areas, the economic growth had a strong urban bias,
which tended to accentuate the urban-rural income inequalities and encouraged
emigration of young labor from rural areas. Also, private investment, at
least in the early years, remained sluggish for a variety of reasons, such as
the indigenization measures and the uncertain domestic and international
economic environment.
7.         The oil revenues, which were critical for the implementation of the
proposed public sector program, fell substantially short of expectations,
while the actual costs of the programs and projects turned out to be much
higher. Large deficits in the government budget and balance of payments
appeared quite early in the period, and the resource constraint came to
reassert itself much sooner than expected. Although the additional oil



- 3 -
resources were used largely to augment the nation's capital stock (the
federal budget current surplus amounted to 60 percent of the current reve-
nues), the capital expenditures rose so quickly - seven-fold between 1973/74
and 1977/78 - that the budget was in substantial deficit already in 1975/76.
As provided in the Third Plan, government investment concentrated on tran-
sport, heavy industry and education, which yielded some impressive results,
particularly in roads and ports. Not surprisingly, the much enlarged public
sector investments, together with the growing financial difficulties, con-
siderably strained the existing administrative capacity.  Thus, costs and
design of projects could not always be closely controlled, and investments
tended to be capital intensive with a large import content.
Financial Difficulties and Government Stabilization Measures
8.        Nigeria's financial difficulties were further aggravated in 1977
when the Nigerian oil faced, at the official price set in April 1977, keen
competition in European and US markets from other, cheaper sources. Conse-
quently, Nigerian sales, which began to decline in the latter half of 1977,
plummeted in the early months of 1978. Federal budget deficits and the
drawdown of foreign exchange reserves had been increasing over time, but the
country's financial situation became critical in 1977/78. The fiscaL year
closed with a Federal Government overall budget deficit of about US$3 billion,
representing about 10 percent of GDP. Foreign exchange reserves declined
sharply and by the end of 1978 stood at US$2.2 billion, a level equivalent to
only seven weeks of imports. The rate of inflation averaged 15 percent
during the two years, rendering domestic production of tradeables pro-
gressively less competitive with foreign-produced goods.
9.        To overcome these problems, the Government, over the past two
years, took a number of steps designed to increase public resources, to
curtail public expenditure, and to curb imports. The Nigerian oil price in
April 1978 was brought in line with the prices of its competitors in order to
reverse the trend of declining oil exports. Non-oil revenues in 1978/79 were
augmented through higher rates for income tax, excises, and import duties as
well as through better enforcement of tax laws and procedures, while cutting
Federal Government capital expenditures by 25 percent in nominal termns. In
order to strengthen the balance of payments position, import licensing and
other restrictions were introduced to reduce particularly the nonessential
consumer imports, and the Government raised two large syndicated loans
(amounting to US$1.75 billion) in the Euro-currency market. In addition, the
Government during this period shifted the emphasis in its expenditures
towards agriculture and introduced policies and programs to stimulate agri-
cultural production.
10.       On the whole, the above measures succeeded in bringing about a
measure of domestic economic stability and stopping the drain on foreign
exchange reserves. The oil output, following the price reduction, revived
quickly and reached well over 2 mbd in the latter half of 1978 compared to an
average of 1.5 mbd at the start of the year. The overall budget deficit for
1978/79 is now estimated at only 60 percent of the previous year's level or
about 5 percent of GDP. Thie import restrictions also appear to have been
very effective in achieving their objective.



-4 -
Recent Oil Market Developments and Short-term Outlook
11.       Nigeria's financial position has improved in recent months following
successive increases in the world oil price. As the latest in a series of
price increases, and in accordance with OPEC policy, Nigeria raised the price
of its crude oil to US$23.40 per barrel on July 1, 1979, up from US$14.10 in
December 1978. The high prices for Nigeria's crude oil exports coincided with
a record level of output of 2.4 mbd during the first half of 1979. Together,
these two factors will change the fiscal situation in 1979 and add consider-
ably to foreign exchange reserves. Export earnings are likely to exceed US$17
billion, representing an increase of 65 percent over the 1978 level, and
federal revenue for 1979/80, budgeted at N8.8 billion, is likely to exceed
*N11 billion. The budget indicates that most of the additional revenue will be
used to expand capital expenditures, which may rise by as much as 20 percent
in real terms, or to a level close to the peak of 1977/78. This expansion is
dictated primarily by the large amount of unfinished investments.
Economic Prospects and Policies
12.       Nigeria's economic prospects over the coming years will continue to
be subject to the vicissitudes of the international oil market. Although
Nigeria over the next year or two can be expected to have a relatively
comfortable financial position and should be able to accumulate sizeable
foreign exchange reserves, its longer term resource outlook is less sanguine.
Unless there are major new oil discoveries - the chances for which are not
held to be very good - Nigeria's future oil output will not rise much above
the current levels, and because of the rapidly rising domestic consumption,
the volume of oil exports is likely to decline over time. If the world oil
market remains tight and the oil price in real terms continues to rise, the
steady improvement in Nigeria's terms of trade can be expected to increase
her import capacity even though the volume of oil exports fails to rise.
However, in view of the size of the economy, the level of economic develop-
ment, the pipeline of unfinished investments and numerous identified invest-
ment projects, Nigeria's actual import needs are likely to far exceed the
import capacity. The external resource gap is likely to widen in the 1980s,
and may amount to 2 percent of GDP by 1985. Nigeria therefore faces immense
resource requirements in the longer term. Reduction of dependence on oil by
raising the level of non-oil exports and non-oil public revenues will remain
the basic challenge of economic development. But it is also important that
Nigeria is able to augment her own resources with sizeable external borrowings.
13.       Assuming continuing efforts by the Government to raise non-oil
revenues, an active private sector, and an annual external borrowing level
of around US$1 billion, Nigeria can be expected to maintain gross domestic
investment at 25 percent of GDP during 1980-85. Provided investments are well
conceived and productive, this rate should permit the economy to grow at
about 5 percent a year, with fair potential for employment creation. The
economy-wide ICOR is expected to remain high owing to the weight of the large
capital intensive projects in the ongoing public sector investment program.
The actual performance of the economy, however, will depend on how success-
fully imports are replaced by domestic production and non-oil exports



stimulated. One critical factor in realizing this will be the competitiveness
of domestic production relative to foreign goods. This will require that
Government pays close attention to establishing a favorable cost and price
structure, as well as directing investment priorities and policy emphasis
towards directly productive projects.
14.       The Government is at present preparing the Fourth National ])evelop-
ment Plan which is expected to come into effect in April 1980. Although the
guidelines for the next plan have yet to be formulated, indications are that
the next five years will be used to consolidate the nation's economic base,
and to lay the foundations for balanced long-term econQmic development:, with
particular emphasis on agriculture. It will, therefore, be important that
the Government continues to exercise restraint in undertaking new largre
investments, ensuring that expenditure commitments do not exceed available
public sector resources. In order to stimulate the growth of agriculture and
manufacturing as well as to reduce the strain on the administration, t:he
private sector over the coming years will have to play a growing role.,
15.       The fact that a new government took office at a time when Nigeria's
financial prospects have greatly improved enhances the need for carefull
resource management. There will no doubt be pressures on the Government to
reverse the policies of consolidation and prudent budget and balance of
payments management instituted by the former government.  It will be a major
t-&t and challenge for the government to proceed prudently in the face of
these pressures.
External Borrowing and Creditworthiness
16.       Until recently, Nigeria had only limited recourse to external
borrowing.  The public guaranteed external debt outstanding (including
undisbursed) amounted to US$1.3 billion at the end of 1977 and, mainly
because of the two syndicated Euro-currency loans, US$3.2 billion at the end
of 1978. The service on this debt would rise to an average of US$550 million
a year in the early 1980s, representing about 2 percent of the expected
export earnings. The World Bank's share in the external debt now is about 25
percent. Given the relatively low level of external indebtedness, the
Government' s generally cautious approach to external borrowing, and the
favorable prospects for oil, the debt service is likely to remain below 10
percent over the next decade. Provided the Government is successful in
implementing policies that would enhance the productivity of investment and
maintain balance between resource availability and use, Nigeria can be
considered creditworthy for considerable Bank lending.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
17,       Bank and IDA lending to Nigeria as of August 31, 1979 amounted to
US$1,043.7 million (net of cancellations). 1/ The amount of these loans and
credits disbursed as of August 31, 1979 was US$629.0 million, leaving an
undisbursed balance of US$414.7 million. Transport, power, and water supply
together account for about 48 percent of total commitments; agriculture for
about 29 percent (most of which was committed in the last four fiscal years);
and education, industry and the post-war rehabilitation loan for the remaining
23 percent of total commitments. Gross disbursements in FY78 were about US$51
million, and US$60 million in FY79, but are expected to increase in the coming
years in line with the expansion of Bank lending to Nigeria. There have been
only two IDA credits to Nigeria, for US$35.5 million; both are fully disbursed.
IFC has made three Joans to borrowers totalling US$3.6 million, and four
equity investments totalling US$2.4 million. Of these amounts, US$3.7 million
have been repaid, cancelled, or sold. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments, as well as notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
18.       The main thrust of the Bank's activities in Nigeria in recent years
has been to support agriculture and rural development, with particular emphasis
on institution-building and transfer of technology. These objectives are in
consonance with the Federal Government's priorities under the Third Plan,
which places considerable emphasis on agriculture, and its policy to use the
proceeds of Nigeria's oil revenues to increase the productive capacity of the
economy, and thereby raise the standard of living of its population, including
the rural poor.
19.       In view of the interest which Nigeria has expressed in greater Bank
involvement, a greatly expanded Bank lending program is contemplated. In
developing a broader approach to lending in Nigeria, a central objective is to
encourage the shift (already discernable in the Federal Government' s invest-
ment programming) away from the massive and diffused infrastructure investment
which characterized the two or three years following the oil boom towards a
more discriminating support for growth in the commodity producing sectors. A
second objective of Bank lending is to raise the productivity of the lowest
income groups and thereby diminish the incidence of absolute poverty in
Nigeria. This objective has been actively pursued in recent agricultural
projects, which benefit some of the very lowest income groups. Agricultural
lending of this kind would continue to figure prominently in the future
lending program. A third objective of Bank lending is to support the Federal
Government's efforts to diversify the economy, and reduce the excessive
1/   Excluding US$81.0 million for the Bida and Ilorin Agricultural Develop-
ment Projects and the Forestry Plantation Project, approved by the
Executive Directors on March 20 and 27, 1979.



dependence upon petroleum as a source of foreign exchange and fiscal revenue.
Consequently, we hope to develop some industrial projects of an explicitly
export-oriented nature, although our efforts are still at a rather preliminary
stage. Agricultural lending, in particular, would include strengthening the
potential for export crops such as cocoa.
20.       The directly productive sectors constitute an appropriate focus
for an expanded lending program. Projects in both agriculture and industry
together should account for a large share of Bank lending in the coming
two or three years. Effective support for the commodity producing sectors
will also require strategic investment in production-related infrastructure,
however. There would appear to be good opportunities for the Bank to make
a significant contribution in highway maintenance, water supply, and power
including the projec. currently before you. Further project identification
work is under way in these sectors. Similarly, there is a strong case for
continued lending for education. In this context, it is proposed thatt voca-
tional, technical, and teacher training be given heavy emphasis. Finally, the
Bank would support the Federal and state governments' efforts to spread the
benefits of growth to the social sectors. It is envisaged that some of the
pressing problems of rapid urbanization will be addressed through a number of
urban development projects, including the one in Bauchi State, focussed on the
needs of the urban poor. A sectoral distribution of lending along these lines
would be in keeping with the need to generate employment, and would also
support the Federal Government's aim of mobilizing Nigeria's petrolei.m
revenues to alleviate poverty and improve the overall distribution of income.
PART III - THE POWER SECTOR
Energy Resources and Consumption
21.       Compared to other West African countries, Nigeria is wll endowed
with energy resources. The most important are oil and natural gas. Proven
crude oil reserves - concentrated in the Niger River delta - are believed
to be around 2.7 billion tons with present daily production at about 2.3
millon barrels, close to an annual output of 100 millon tons. About 20
billion cubic meters of natural gas are associated with this production;
practically all of it is being flared, with only 3 percent being utilized at
this time. A first step in increasing this percentage is now under consid-
eration with a proposed gas pipeline to serve the Lagos area. Estimated
recoverable reserves of non-associated gas amount to 1.2 trillion cubic meters.
Commercially exploitable deposits of coal, mostly sub-bituminous, are put at
340 million tons and lignite deposits at 140 million tons. Potential hydro-
power resources are estimated at 11,500 MW, of which 520 MW are being utilized
at present.
22.     Nigeria's total energy consumption in 1978 has been estimated at
roughly 14.7 million tons of fuel oil equivalent (t.o.e.), of which about 56
percent came from commercial sources, including petroleum products, natural



-8-
gas, coal, and hydroelectricity, and about 43 percent from non-commercial
sources, including wood, charcoal, and organic wastes. In spite of rapid
growth of commercial energy consumption, averaging 20 percent over the last
five years, per capita consumption is still only about 0.18 t.o.e. per year.
The high proportion of energy used for residential needs and transport
reflects the relatively low level of Nigeria's industrialization. Energy
consumed in the form of electricity represents about 13 percent of the total,
and has grown at an average of 20 percent per annum over the past five years.
Except for Lagos, where service coverage reaches 90 percent, access to
electricity supply is limited to about 20 percent of the population. In
1977/78, public service electricity consumption amounted to a mere 65 kWh per
capita, as compared with - for example - 180 kWh in the Ivory Coast and 390
kWh in Ghana (excluding use in aluminum smelting). The Lagos metropolitan
area of about 500 km2, however, with less than 5 percent of Nigeria's
population, absorbed 43 percent of total electricity consumption in 1978, or
roughly 425 kWh per capita.
23.       At present, the Federal Government lacks some basic sector and
comparative data necessary to formulate an optimum energy development plan.
The Government has already engaged consultants to carry out an initial survey
as a basis for major investment decisions over the near-to-medium term. It
has also expressed interest in a more comprehensive approach toward national
energy planning, a feature of which would be the creation of a domestic capa-
bility for such planning on a continuous basis. Bank staff is currently
discussing with the Federal Government the scope and timing of this study.
Power Sector Organization
24.     The National Electric Power Authority (NEPA) is currently responsible
for about 95 percent of public service electricity supply. NEPA is a semi-
autonomous public corporation operating under the general supervision of the
Federal Commissioner of Mines and Power, who is responsible for approving
important policy decisions. It was created in 1972 through a merger of
Electricity Corporation of Nigeria (ECN) and Niger Dams Authority (NDA).
Between 1951 and 1972, ECN generated, transmitted, and distributed practically
all electricity throughout Nigeria. NDA was established in 1962, with Bank
assistance, to build and operate the hydro-electric scheme at Kainji on the
Niger River.
25.       The activities of NEPA are controlled by a Board of Directors,
consisting of five senior officials of the relevant Federal Ministries,
three members appointed by Federal Commissioner of Mines and Power, and
the General Manager. The central management in Lagos comprises - in addition
to the General Manager - six assistant general managers, in charge of the
following divisions: engineering, operations, distribution, commercial,
finance and administration. Subordinated to the distribution division are
district headquarters, which are in charge of planning, designing, building,
operating, and maintaining distribution networks, and of metering, billing,
and customer relations. About 15,450 employees were on NEPA's payroll on
March 31, 1978. At the same time, however, about 1,800 authorized positions



-9-
remained vacant. In part, this reflects the relative scarcity of certain
skills in Nigeria. NEPA's situation is, however, aggravated by its being
required to apply Federal Goverment salary scales which make it difficult
for NEPA to attract and retain qualified executives, professionals, and
skilled labor. Particularly in the context of the Federal Governnent's
efforts to contain wages in both public and private sectors (para. 9), the
Government has been unwilling to exempt NEPA, or any other public corporation
from its public salary guidelines. To overcome the scarcity of senior staff,
NEPA has had to obtain the services of a substantial number of expatriates.
NEPA's Existing Facilities
26.       NEPA's presently installed generating capacity totals 1,600 MW
(with an available capacity of 1,420 MW), consisting of the Kainji hydro-
electric plant (520 MW), gas and steam turbines at five thermal plants (Delta,
Afam, Ijora, Oji, and Sapele), and a number of diesel stations. In t:he past
three years, adverse hydrological conditions, affecting the Niger River flow
into the Kainji reservoir, resulted in a deficit of energy and consequently
in serious supply shortages. However, the hydrological situation has now
improved and, with the commissioning in 1978 and early 1979 of several thermal
generating units, the available generating capacity appears adequate for
current energy demand. The plants are connected to the main load centers
through 1,870 km of high-tension transmission lines and eight main st:ep-down
3ubstations at 330/132 kV.  About 1,700 km of lines and 33 substations at
132/33 kV feed the sub-transmission and distribution networks. However,
problems with the transmission and distribution sytems frequently cause
unscheduled interruptions in supply.
27.       The Lagos metropolitan area, served originally by a local ithermal
plant, was connected to the national high-tension grid when the Kain.ji scheme
was put into operation. A program of distribution expansion to overcome
supply constraints in the metropolitan area was launched in 1974. Ils first
phase, now nearing completion, comprises the installation of a new 3:30/132 kV
substation and the extersion of the high-tension transmission system. However,
the execution of the second phase is urgently required, and would be provided
for under the proposed project.
NEPA's Expansion ProgramL
28.     The project would be part of NEPA's ambitious development program
for the period 1977-87, which is designed to cope with a rapid growt'h in
demanid for power. Although Nigeria's economic growth is projected to be
somewhat lower in the coming years than in the past, demand for power over
the program period is estimated to continue to grow at the rate of about
20 percent per annum nationwide (para. 22) and about 15 percent per annum
in t'ae Lagos metropolitan area. This is in part due to the expected indust-
rial growth as well as the present relatively low per capita consumption of
the country in general. The development program is expected to add a net
generating capacity of about 3,800 MW to the presently installed capacity



- 10 -
(after deducting retirements). The most important additions are scheduled to
consist of several hydro-electric plants, together with a large thermal plant
fleled by natural gas from the Niger River delta.  The location of these new
generating units would affect the expansion of the transmission grid. This
would include the construction of about 1,000 km of single circuit and 1,200
km of double circuit 330 kV lines, and the installation of a number of sub-
stations at the main load centers to feed the 132 kV system. The sub-
transmission system at 33 and 11 kV and the distribution networks would be
substantially expanded to deliver an incremental load of about 2,500 MW.
29.       According to NEPA's current but tentative estimates, the cost of the
ten-year program would amount to almost US$9 billion (at 1978 prices), of
which distribution would absorb about US$2 billion, representing an average
total investment cost of about $2,000 per additional kW of installed generating
capacity. This is in line with costs in other parts of West Africa. Although
the ten-year program would impose a considerable burden upon NEPA's financial
and staff resources, its general scope and composition seems justified to meet
the rapidly increasing demand for power which, for example, would entail in
the Lagos metropolitan area an expected doubling of per capita consumption
over the program period.
Bank Role
30.       Between 1964 and 1972, the Bank made four loans, totalling $216.8
million, for power development in Nigeria; one benefited ECN, two NDA, and
the last NEPA. The first loan (Loan 372-UNI), in 1964, assisted in financing
the transmission system at 330 and 132 kV and sub-transmission and distribu-
tion facilities for Lagos, Ibadan, and Port Harcourt. The project was com-
pleted in time and within cost estimates. The second loan (Loan 383-UNI), in
1964, was made in parallel with assistance from Italy, the Netherlands, the
United Kingdom, and the United States to assist in financing the constuction
of the Kainji hydro-electric scheme, with a generating capacity of 320 MW, and
the associated transmission system at 330 kV. This project experienced
substantial cost increases due to a larger than expected volume of civil
works, higher equipment costs, and delays caused by the civil war. The third
loan (Loan 572-UNI), in 1968, provided additional funds to cover these cost
increases. The project was completed one year behind schedule in 1970. The
last loan (Loan 847-UNI), in 1972, assisted in providing two additional 100
MW generating units for Kainji, together with a second transmission line to
Lagos. Some $2.5 million of this loan remains to be disbursed for the
project's rural electrification component and a tariff study (para. 41). The
additional units at Kainji were put into service in 1976 and the second
Kainji-Lagos line in 1977.
31.       The Bank's past involvement in the Nigerian power sector has con-
tributed to improvements in operations, planning, and development. The Bank
was also instrumental in bringing about the merger of ECN and NDA into NEPA
(para. 24), which resulted in a much more efficient organization of the
power sector. The major changes in the overall economic situation of Nigeria
in the last few years have resulted in an unprecedented increase in the demand



- 11 -
for power, and a similarly rapid growth is expected in the future. This has
placed a considerable strain on the power system and executive ability of
NEPA. Tthere is therefore an urgent need for expansion and improvemient in
the sector. In this situation, the Bank has an even more important: role to
play than in the past in providing technical and financial assistantce in
support of NEPA's program.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
32.        The proposed project forms part of NEPA's expansion program for
1977-87. It was identified in 1977, and appraised in October 1978. A
post-appraisal mission visited Lagos in February 1979. A Staff Aplpraisal
Report, dated October 1, 1979 (2502-UNI), is being circulated separately to
the Executive Directors. After discussions on co-financing with tihe European
Investment Bank (EIB) in Luxembourg in March 1979, negotiations were held at
the Bank in June. Supplementary data on the project is to be found in
Annex III.
Project Objectives
33.        The project would assist in meeting the increase in demand for
electricity in the Lagos metropolitan area and in alleviating NEPA's serious
staffing and financial problems. It would strengthen NEPA's capacity
to plan and execute distribution networks for the supply of electricity
to the ultimate consumer, still an important limitation on the company's
system development, and of particular importance in the Lagos metropolitan
area because of explosive and uneven growth patterns, geographical peculiari-
ties, and rights-of-way limitations in the city. It would, by building up
NEPA's capability for manpower development and training, substantially
increase the number of suitably trained staff. It would also, by further
raising and restructuring tariffs, strengthen NEPA's financial capability,
encourage conservation of electricity, and reduce distortions in demand.
Project Description
34.        The project wuld be implemented over the period 1979-84, and would
consist of:
(i) the expansion of the high-tension system to complete NEPA's
development program up to 1985/86 - about 70 km of 132 kV
lines and seven new and extensions to six existing statiLons
at 132 kV with a total additional transformer capacity of
about 1,075 MVA; about 90 km of 33 kV lines and 12 new and
extensions to 13 existing substations at 33 kV with a total
additional transformer capacity of about 570 MVA;
(ii) the expansion of the 11 kV and low-tension distribution system
to serve the incremental demand in the Lagos metropolitan



- 12 -
area between 1979/80 and 1982/83 - about 650 km of 11 kV
cables, about 930 11 kV distribution centers, control and
protection equipment and accessories; about 200 km of
0.4 kV cables, about 1,100 km of 0.4 kV overhead lines,
fuse pillars, meters, and accessories; and
(iii)  the provision of 26 man-years of experts and instructors
in human resources development, training, and various
other disciplines, in addition to training equipment and
materials for existing training centers, to assist in
formulating training objectives and executing training
programs.
Project Implementation
35.        The project wmuld be implemented by NEPA over a period of about
four and one-half years. Preliminary engineering for the high-tension system
has been carried out by consultants. Consultants would also be employed for
construction supervision of high-tension lines and substations. The detailed
design of transmission lines would be done by the selected contractor. NEPA
would do the engineering of the 11 and 0.4 kV distribution elements, using
present standard designs.
36.       With these arrangements, NEPA should have no problems in implement-
ing the project. Its central management and many of the senior managers are
competent, experienced, and dedicated. However, it suffers from a scarcity
of executive talent at middle management level and a serious shortage of tech-
nical and professional staff throughout the organization (para. 25). As a
result, top officials are fully involved in day-to-day operations with little
time for planning, control, coordination, and on-the-job training of subor-
dinates. At the same time, NEPA is overstaffed by unskilled labor, and by
clerical and other auxiliary employees. For this reason, an understanding
was reached with NEPA that the presently declining trend in the staff/consumer
ratio should continue. In addition, the project's training component would
address this problem through an expanded retraining program. To ensure its
success, NEPA would engage additional permanent staff, on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank, to fill professional positions now vacant in its
Training Department and in the manpower control section of its Personnel
Department, including that of the Training Director; the Director would be
appointed by not later than    December 31, 1979 (Section 4.03 of the Loan
Agreement).
Project Cost
37.       Total costs of the project are estimated at US$222.2 million
(including taxes and duties of US$16.1 million), of which the foreign exchange
component wuld amount to US$129.0 million or 58 percent. A breakdown of the
cost by major categories is given in the Loan and Project Summary. The power
distribution component would absorb most of the expenditure on the project.
An estimated US$4.3 million would be spent on the training component. The
costs of the specialists, instructors, and advisers would average some



- 13 -
US$8,000 per man-month, of which US$5,000 would be in foreign exchange. For
the distribution component, allowance has been made for physical contingencies
equal to on average 7.5 percent of base costs, and price contingencies have
been calculated on base costs plus physical contingencies. Price contingen-
cies for foreign costs allow for an annual rate of inflation of 7.5 percent
in 1979 and 6 percent per annum thereafter; price contingencies for local
costs are estimated at 20 percent per annum. On this basis, total contin-
gencies are estimated at 42 percent of base costs. The incremental unit
investment cost of the power distribution component would amount to about
US$370 per kW of installed capacity, which is reasonable compared to that of
other cities in West Africa.
Project Financing
38.       The proposed loan to NEPA would be guaranteed by the Federal Gov-
ernment. The loan of US$100 million equivalent would finance 49 percent of
the total project cost, net of taxes, and would be equivalent to 78 percent
of the foreign exchange cost of the project. Additional financing is expected
to be provided by the European Investment Bank (EIB), which is discussing
with NEPA the possibility of providing a loan of about US$35 million (25
million units of account) for about 16 years, including 4 years of grace, at
an interest rate of about 7 percent. About US$6.4 million of this ]Loan would
finance local expenditure. As detailed in the Loan and Project Summsary, the
remaining project cost of US$87.2 million would be financed by NEPA from
internal cash generation and by the Federal Government through loans (para.
44). In case the EIB loan would not materialize, this amount would also be
financed by NEPA or the Federal government.
Financial Position and Cost Recovery
39.       The financial position of NEPA has been unsatisfactory in recent
years. During the highly inflationary period between its establishment in
1972 and the autumn of 1977, electricity tariffs remained unchanged. When
they were finally raised in October 1977, the 30 percent increase had only a
limited impact on NEPA's finances. NEPA's fixed assets were last revalued in
1972. However, if approximate annual revaluations are attributed to fixed
asset values for all later years, the financial rate of return shows a decline
from about 4.4 percent in 1972/73 to around zero in 1975/76 and thereafter.
Also, deprived of the necessary internally generated funds, NEPA relied
increasingly upon the Federal Government for its investment needs. NEPA's
own contribution to its capital budget shrank from 84 percent in 1972/73 to
7 percent in 1977/78. The Federal Government loans were on easy terms: a
maturity of 25 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 5 percent
and a waiver of interest in the first 5 years. As a result, although to some
extent offset by continuing inflation and still leaving a good margin for
additional borrowing, NEPA's debt:equity ratio, based on estimated revalued
assets, rose from about 30:70 in 1972/73 to about 45:55 in 1977/78.
40.       The rate covenant in the Loan Agreement of 1972 (Loan 847-UNI)
would be continued unchanged, providing for NEPA to achieve an eight percent
return on its revalued net fixed assets in operation unless otherwise agreed



- 14 -
by the Bank (Section 5.05 of the Loan Agreement). Assurances were received
from NEPA on a realistic timetable for reaching the eight percent rate of
return by 1982 and on appropriate performance targets in the interim period.
in addition, assurances were received on the application of an acceptable
methodology for the valuation of net fixed assets, to be used in calculating
the rate of return. Until recently, the Federal Government was reluctant to
approve any tariff increases because of the greatly deteriorated service by
NEPA. However, by late-1978 restrictions on electricity supply had been
substantially overcome and more normal service had been restored (para. 26).
The Federal Government therefore introduced an increase in tariffs, of on
average 53 percent, as of August 1, 1979. While the increase does not enable
NEPA to attain immediately a return of eight percent on revalued net fixed
assets in operation, it is a significant step towards this goal. It is
expected that by 1982/83 the government will be in a position to approve
further tariff adjustments, as necessary. By that time, electricity sales are
expected to be almost double their present level, without a proportionate
increase in costs. Thus, on the basis of present financial forecasts, the
further tariff increase necessary to meet the full eight percent rate of
return would be only about 30 percent. Further tariff adjustments will be
required from time to time thereafter.
41.       The rate increases of October 1977 and August 1979 incorporated
new tariff schedules, the classification of which appears adequate and easy
to apply. Also, as part of the most recent tariff adjustment, NEPA introduced
several changes in the existing tariff structure to alleviate the tariffs'
earlier socially regressive character. Further refinement of the tariff
structure has to await the determination of the economic cost of electricity
supply for different classes and levels of consumption. NEPA has recently
sought the assistance of consultants, financed under Loan 847-UNI, to carry
out a tariff study based on marginal cost principles; the study will be of
importance to NEPA's planning and financing functions, and its findings will
be discussed by NEPA and the Bank upon its completion.
42.       At present, the cash position of NEPA is also unfavorably affected
by arrears in payments by consumers. These amount to some US$100 million
equivalent, representing bills for about six months, with nearly one-third due
by Government agencies. However, the problem is primarily caused by serious
difficulties experienced by NEPA staff in the delivery of bills to consumers.
To solve the problem of arrears of both public and private consumers, NEPA has
already initiated action to speed up billing and collection, re-enforcing its
efforts where necessary by cutting off supply. Also, NEPA and the Federal
Government will review with the Bank arrangements for the prompt recovery of
overdue accounts.
43.       During the 1979-84 project period, within the context of its ten-
year development, NEPA would require about US$6.5 billion equivalent for
planned capital investment and appropriate increases in working capital.
Taking into account the recent tariff adjustment, and assuming that addi-
tional tariff increases will be made in the early 1980's, NEPA ought to be
in a postion to generate internal funds of about US$2.9 billion equivalent in
the next five years. However, almost half of this amount would be used for



- 15 -
debt service, leaving only about US$1.5 billion for capital expenditure. The
proposed loans by the Bank and the EIB represent a modest amount in relation
to NEPA's funds requirements. Consequently, nearly 75 percent of NEPA's
capital budget for the next five years, or some US$4.8 billion equivalent,
would still have to be financed by Federal Government loans.
44.       There appears to be no realistic alternative to substantial finan-
cial support from the Federal Government as long as NEPA continues to invest
such massive amounts of capital in expansion. Even if this support were
exclusively in the form of loans, with no government equity contributions, the
deterioration of the debt:equity ratio is likely to be mitigated by the
process of inflation. Therefore, the Federal Government has agreed that it
would formulate proposals for meeting NEPA's investment needs and discuss them
periodically with tuie Bank (Section 3.05 of the Guarantee Agreement). In this
dialogue, the Federal Government and the Bank would address themselves primarily
to the specific question of adequate cash generation by NEPA, and to the
prospects for strengthening NEPA's financial position and enabling it - in the
long run - to borrow in the external capital market.
45.       As far as NEPA's capacity to borrow is concerned, additional debt
would not be incurred by NEPA without the concurrence of the Bank unlless its
net revenues would be at least 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirement
for any succeeding fiscal year (Section 5.07 of the Loan Agreement). Provided
tariffs are increased as expected and maintained at appropriate levels, this
covenant is not expected to preclude NEPA from raising the necessary loans for
its ten-year development program.
Procurement
46.       All goods and services financed by the Bank would be procured
through international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines, and companies coming to Nigeria to execute projects assisted by
the Bank would not be affected by recent legislation requiring incorporation
as Nigerian companies. The legislation, requiring most companies to obtain 40
or 60 percent Nigerian ownership, seeks to promote the transfer of itechnology
and to obtain the maximization of benefits to Nigeria. To comply with the
Bank's procurement requirements and, at the same time, to obtain the transfei
of technology sought ba Nigeria, companies awarded a contract under a project
assisted by the Bank would be exempted from the incorporation requirement;
however, as a general rule, the contracts are to provide for the proper
training of Nigerian staff.
47.       In case the EIB loan materializes, its proceeds would be applied to
purchases of switchgear for some of the new sub-stations and the expansion of
existing ones, together with communications equipment. Except for switchgear,
and for control and protection equipment for sub-station expansion, which have
to match existing equipment, goods and services financed by EIB would also be
procured through international competitive bidding. The EIB guidelines would
permit procurement in all member countries of the Bank and Switzerland.
48.       For high-tension transmission lines, estimated to cost about US$28
million, NEPA would follow the practice of turn-key contracts to be awarded
after international competitive bidding. Procurement of high-tension sub-
stations, estimated to cost about US$103 million, would be done under separate



- 16 -
contract packages for (i) power transformers; (ii) supply and erection of
structures, switchgear, and control and protection equipment (to be financed
in part by the EIB); (iii) supply and erection of communications equipment
(to be financed by the EIB); and (iv) civil works. The main categories of
equipment and materials for the distribution system, including transformers,
conductors, insulators, and meters, would be procured separately, at an
estimated total cost of about US$87 million equivalent. Domestically manu-
factured equipment, such as electrical conductors, would be allowed a 15
percent preference or the applicable import duty, whichever is lower, for
purposes of bid evaluation. However, almost all contracts are expected to
be awarded to foreign suppliers. The services of training specialists,
instructors, and advisers to be engaged under the project, valued at about
US$4 million would be obtained on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
The Federal Government has agreed that the Government's approval of contract
awards, which has caused delays in the execution of NEPA's works in the past,
would be expedited (Section 3.04 of the Guarantee Agreement).
Disbursement
49.       The proposed loan would be disbursed during the period 1980-84.
Disbursements would be made against appropriate documentation for 100 percent
of foreign expenditures on imported goods and services, or 100 percent of
the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured goods. In the case of local
consultant services, including training specialists, disbursement from the
Bank loan would be made against 100 percent of their salaries. An amount of
US$10 million is provided on an unallocated basis.
Economic Justification
50.       Several alternative 132 and 33 kV schemes were considered for each
of the loading sectors of the Lagos metropolitan area, assuming different
proportions of load to be fed to the 11 kV system directly or through the
33 kV system. This comparative analysis established that the project
represents the least cost solution.
51.       The internal economic return has been estimated for the expansion
program required to serve the incremental power demand of the Lagos area for
the period 1980/81-1985/86, of which the proposed project forms part. On that
basis, and assessing benefits as revenues from sales of electricity at today's
tariff levels, the rate of return of the project is estimated at 20 percent.
The main uncertainties, which might affect this return, are possible increases
in investment costs and lower than projected electricity sales. A 10 percent
change in both these elements would reduce the return to 17 percent.
Project Risks
52.       Although NEPA's service has recently improved, widespread discontent
with its performance and strong regional pressures prompted the draftsmen of
the new Constitution to deprive the Federal Government of the exclusive right



- 17 -
to operate the electric power system. According to the Constitution, the
federal power to legislate on electricity matters is concurrent with that
of the states, except in the matter of distribution, which has becorme the
exclusive legislative responsibility of the states.  However, as reflected
in NEPA's Decree No. 24 of 1972, the applicable law will allow NEPA to con-
tinue to provide distribution services as long as no legislative action is
taken by the states. Although the future organization of the power sector is
uncertain, no abrupt changes are expected. Nevertheless, any reorganization of
the sector might threaten the smooth functioning of electricity supply.
Consequently, NEPA has agreed that any material change in the 1972 Decree,
adversely affecting NEPA's operations or the carrying out of the proposed
project, could result in the suspension of the loan (Section 6.01 of the
Loan Agreement), and the Federal Government has agreed to promptly notify the
Bank of any major changes in the operational responsibilities of NEPA (Section
3.03 of the Guarantee Agreement). The Federal Government has also stated that
it would welcome any comments which the Bank might wish to offer on the
present and future organization of the sector.
53.       The effectiveness of the training component depends upon the prompt
engagement of additional permanent staff for the Training and Personnel
Departments (para. 36). However, given the reluctance of the Federal Govern-
ment to modify NEPA's salary structure, NEPA may experience problems in
attracting suitably qualified and experienced local staff (para. 25). NEPA has
indicated that in that event it would recruit additional expatriate staff.
54.       Otherwise, assuming that further tariff increases will be sufficient
to enable NEPA to earn an 8 percent return on its revalued net fixed assets in
operation in the foreseeable future, there appear to be no serious risks to
the successful implementation of the project. The Federal Government has
always assigned high priority to the development of the power sector, and
there is no indication that it might depart from this position.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the National Electric
Power Authority, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Federal Republic of
Nigeria and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section f (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
56.       Special conditions of the proposed loan are listed in Section III
of Annex III of this Report.
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with t'he Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOMENDATION
58.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
October 25, 1979
Washington D.C.



-19-                                      ANNEX I
IAJLE iA                                       Page  1  of  5
NIGERIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NIGERIA                    REFERENCE CGROUPS (ADJUSTED AyERACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL            923.8                                                 SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     446.4                               MOST RECENT      GEOCRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960  /b    1910 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c  GROUP id    GROUP Ie
t.NP PER CAPITA (US5)                i20.0       200.0     420.0           261.4      430.3       926.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      34.0       52.0      94.0             80.6      262.1       730..
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     51.6        66.2      79,0
URSAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) i3.0        16.3      18.1            17.1       24.6        49.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     152.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      435.0
WEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. ot.                      56.0        72.0       86.0            11.4       45.3        44.6
PER SQ. RH. AGRICULTURAL LAND    125.0       152.0     177.0            50.8      149.0       140.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        44.7        44.8      46.0            44.1        45.2        41.3
15-64 YRS.                        54.1        53.0      52.0            52.9        51.9        55.3
65 YRS. AND AB0VE                   1.2         2.2      2.0              2.8        2.8         3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.4          2.5       2.6             2.7        2.7         2.4
URBAN                             5.0         4.7        4.6             5.7        4.3         4.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    52.0         51.0      50.0            46.3       39.4        31.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    25.0         21.0      18.0            17.2       11.7         9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              ..          3.3       3.4             3.1        2.7         2.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPtORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..         7.6       33.2
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..        ..              ..        13.2        34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         98.9       102.0      91.0            94.3       99.6       tO4.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  91.0/       89.0      88.0            89.5        94.7       105.0
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         50.07[j.    59 9      46.3            55.8       54. 3        64.4
af WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       9.7         16.3      9.3             17.9       17.4        23.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     38.0        33.0      24.0            22.3       11.4         8.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   39.0        43.0      48.0         ,  47.0       54.7         60.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..        154.0/1     ..              ..       68.1         46.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         ..        ..             20.3       34.4        60.8
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..             53.9       57.9        75.7
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..             10.1       21.2        40.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..             22.5       40.8        46.0
UR8AN                              ..          ..        ..            62.5        71.3  ,    46.0
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..             13.9       27.7        22.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         32000.0     20530.0   14810.0         17424.7     6799.4      2262.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     6020.0/f   4220.0    3210.0           2506.6     1522.1      1195.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                          2100.0/h    2220.0    1170.0            502.3      726.5       453.4
URBAN                              ..        400.0    280.0            201.4      272.7       253.1
RURAL                              ..      18450.0   4140.0           1403.6    1404.4       2732.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED           ,.         .,        ..             23.4       27.5        22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                                     ;49                       5           5. 3
URBAN                              .            .       4.7             4.9         5.1         5.2
RUILAL                             ...                    .5.5                      5.5         5. 4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               .           .         .               .          .           .
URBAN                              3.0                   22i                                    t.6
RURAL                              ..                                   .                       2.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLtNCS)
TOTAL                             81.0         ..         .                .       28.         50.0
URBAN                            81.3           *-      42.4              ..       45.1        71.7
RURAL                                                                               9.9        17.3



-20-  .                                         ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
NIGERIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA S61ET              Page  2  of  5
NICERIA                     RFFFERF-NCE GFS7-D lI's`F,
SR- MOST KECENT _:.IsTIMATE)
SAME         SAM E     NEXT HICHIER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME         INCOME
1960 Lb      1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        RECION Ic  CGOUP Ad    GROUP /t
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENR0LL.MFNT RATIOa
PRIMARY:      ToTAL                  36.0         34.0       49.0              59.0        82.7        102.5
MALE                   46.0         43.0       59.0             64.2         87.3        108.6
FEMALE                 27.0         25.0       39.0             44.2         75.8         97.1
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                    3.0          4.0       10.0               9.0        21.4         33.5
MALE                    4.0          6.0       14.0              12.0        33.0         38.4
FEMALE                  1.0          3.0        7.0               4.4        15.5         30.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)   5.0             8.5         3.8/1            7.0         9.8         1r.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              30.0         34.0       34.0             42.2         34.1         35.8
SECONDARY                            19.0         21.0       25.0              22.9        23.4         22.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          15.0            ..        ..              20.8        54.0         64.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            0.7          1.0        2.1               4.0        .9.3         13.5
RADIO RECEIVERS PER TtlOUSAND
POPULATION                            4.0         23.0       79.0             44.3         76.9        122.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            0.2          1.4        1.8               2.9        13.5         38.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY CENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     8.0          5.0        9.0               5.6        18.3         40.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..              ..        0.5               0.4         2.5          3.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    18300.0/f   25600.0   27700.0-/k
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     41.3         40.6       40.2              31.9        29.2         25.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                70.8         62.1       56.0              77.6        62.7         43.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   10.4         13.8       18.0            - 7.9         11.9         21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  42.7         40.5       39.1              40.8        37.1         53.5
MALE                                   50.9         48.8       47.4              53.9        48.8         48.0
FEMALE                                 34.8         32.4       31.0              25.6        20.4         16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  1.4/f        1.2        1.4              1.2         1.4           1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..           ..         ..                ..        15.2         20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..              ..         ..                ..        48.2         52.1
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..           ..         ..                ..         6.3          3.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..           ..         ..                ..        16.3         12.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..      352.0             187.6       241.3        270.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..      156.0              96.8       136.6        183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
iRBAN                                  ..           ..      286.0             138.4       179.7        282. 5
RURAL                                  ..           ..       95.0              71.0       103.7        248.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..              34. 5       24 8         20. 5
RURAL                                  ..           ..       27.0              48.7        37.5         35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averagas for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c  Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita, 1976);   /e  Intermediate Middle
Income (551-1135 per capita, 1976);   /f  1963;   /B  1961-63;   /h  Including ex-north Cameroons under
British administration;   /i  certain fields of study previously classified under other second level edu-
cation of a vocational of technical nature are now reported under general education;   /j  1965-66 average.
/k    1973                                                                                           May. 1979



-21 -                                                                       ANNEX I
P'age 3 of 5
Not"!~ Althoq~h tho data eon dceo fren AMorco Severoly Jodged the amot "tothritatioo aendtelLehl., it bhoold .1.0 bo ntoed thet they -y ent be Latromn-
tiocall, comarable beosos  of the lIok of atuerdiarjod  WWII-ele e ad ..cnoau sead by difformat ooetrioe  t. c.ll.otiag the data.  The  ets  a-e, eeOetheslsoe,
-eful to doeerib. ordee. of -sonttd..  Wicd.ct. troodo, and c1har. trlatim. CartaLe   mint differsenes bommoon .-etries.
Tho adios ted or j..EMfte   for salt Indicator on, ps"Ltoleie           taibted geometricmomm, oecledin  the asttams telee  of the Ondool to, end the  at pv.e.
-toote  Io eh Irt-p.  Dose to l1ok ot jeta. grow  Aavrego, of all ledisator   for capital Serploo Oil leper?t?. sod of isditwtor  of Acct.* to ntets  end Onrorta
dispeos, Noist,ing loma diotribiottn ond Penoroy for otber coutry growse eon pepelaciam.neight.d goammtrin mmam withoot onoleton of the ontreeA vole- end
tin rltSn nros  faadcto to, n.4                                                   A                                                                              oese   00on
~~ thosend  oo. he)                                                         "     n ocg   oe O0~is    o1to   .ssip                                oe
otl- Total osnfoo    ro       priming lend Arm& end  ulend notor.                               Ivedmr of people  tt          go.edtgl   svdIyOc..d
MZhMiZMzltu     Hoe  rso-eoat ootfnst. of egrioslosral wst -e.    d comprsrily               poeal se peres.te., of tb*te rospective paplottetio.  litcont  disposal
or peon `enly for trop, peototo, narkt end kitchen gatdama or to                           a"y tooled  the collention od disposol, wtth or witheat trnemommt,of
Jito fallen.                                                                               hmf enorsta end eseto-eter by ostr-borne~ 075tles or the 55  of pit
prOls. 0W 1.01cr lootellatmma.
01L nl!'.fl'A~~           L0 otcpts ootitet     St torrent nerhetP L."'O                   ZtmlAAm.p L         5r   h      Pop.letten diotded by neber of israoticteg physt-
Oslolted Iy  am  esororsenpstnho  as World Oenk Atlw  (1975-77 beato);                 clos  :eelif ted fin       omit.01 .thool At  at,onretty 1-1.1
1960. 1970, end 1977 dot..                                                             P19olatmonen?nooatn  enen   - Pop.letim, divided by neab.!v Of peto
IS ndfk     gred Ste moon, p ..ttlnl neoe, end  -oattent nOro..
EDifLY C?.IWPIION wf AIA-Ans    m.ino    mrllarly  (.-nI                                    Pooeinnr hootl  e      otl                    n. VWd rural   POPolatite  (totel,
en  Inito   ptolenntoe  tee so    ya- -red  gOoBAtheOnSI                               rta,  n  roe) diided by thatr tompectios oaor, of hospItal bods
:1loocrtcttty) Jn klolegr   of co.1 oqol-telet per toplte  1960, 1970                     ovilobio  i. peblic end prlveto  osn.rol end spotleltod hopItal aedto
end 176 jets.                                                                            habilitation tmentr..  goopitole Ato  oetebltshomnopoent           n   tlotffod by
PD7II,TIOo ftV ITA     TAItC                                                                   tufteet wen  ebyollen.  tsakanspeilgpria.1polly c,todial
Tote oootsionnOdvee      Iiomn-)   As Of 3.17 1; 1960. 1970, . d                        Asesn not tIntlded.  RuneL           1 hooptlo aeorn, tolsds beelth end   d-
1977 dete.                                                                               t&l tC. tor net0 perennotl1y.Staff.6 b     physlcior (hot by A nodlro I
Urbn  ooloio  lotEnt of total) -atett  Of orbe. to, touta  pepoletton;                istatent.ses  nidelft, etc oto   oft iso I-   tat t sooamodation end
dif   r-tno   diottien   of dres    -m  esy aff-ct ienprs-bttty of date .                             atd   sg  of Indl     f.culltte..
-noo  oetrls; 1960, 1970 enC 1975 dets.                                             Ads       55. ah                -Ttlnne   f  jtseot   rdohre
* 1.Corront popol.tls  projettone, sAn h.oed oni,                                                  b    he=           fbs
19'I HoteIpop.latime by eg. sod o- end thetr ottlitry end fertility MS0
:tens.  poolottloe  P-mmatre  fo  -orootry rate  cenpiso  of 3 kernl..                 aes.so   fhe.e   orosso   o  eo( ttlslL.S.oa
eoo.ni   lite ..poo-eocy At birth iscroesig with .-etry'. per telt                         hoesehid onaetoram gapo    tnileeow shMhr  loo9 Efto
Inca.ylor,.end fOenl. ltfo  onpoctenoy etahilloing  At 77.5 yeses,                      en   hejo  "ise  -le.  A heerde  or loroe  n.y orsy not he i-ld.d tOti the
Tho p.arsoetr  for fertility rete sleo he.o 3 lve-o as*-nLO  decltno                      haotnheld for sttistfifcal prpoeeo.
Inlet-tility  -.-odt.t to Inoano loto  end peon tenily plate. pot-                       vt.enb          fs ya            on-ttlaho.ndraj-Atg   nht
0   toecc     tech -oncytoteo       ohnd ono, of these 9 cminstioe.,                  ofAn    e    a   ns0               e, and t       Ia onoopi.d c-netionol doolligo.,
ofvteIto  ed.fotIlIty  ttnd: fIor p-ojotiso  porpoeoe...repootgmny. Dlllng. nCILsjo   --paroneneot otroot.r.. end onrpied patts.
Shett ...ry Ponol*tlo-   10I:,  Sutttonary Popolatith, th?.  i   ogowb                  605  to  letrtit  (sr-ottf   olise)    total. erb-n. ed  -rotl -
tOte-  the birth otoIn   .qcc tothe d..th rate, endfelo.,b thAS                            ebnla    nlio    It   bttt   I.eI  . hobo                  ..stt.. .. pe-cong   Of
t-t.ctre tosin, e   tnott.  Thto to                -1toe  Cl   ftor  retility  rete      toa, orb... ed tota    oolie   npncttvly.
d.olto. to tho ropleconet Ie-I of -lt not soprdtij-to   rots, when mobh
g....teiOn of   -       morplaoee itmeLf soetly.  The Stationery Popoletio"
elo  ee  stletd en the heai. of the projeot.d oher-ctriattt of the                deo    nrltrTo
POPlttOO   e, he  es  20D0, Add the ten  of decine. of fertility Fete              fli6IiMZ~iVeoed tmab                           itoeo  total. mlo aod fenoal.  -nrol-
to tep uatarn  lro.I                                                                     soofeI egs at th. polenry level Am p-eoocg.n of e..p..ttl     priosry
Soo- Stetioneor P .. lOtin Is Oseobad - Th. ye.t whe  Snetionry Popola-                    shole       popol.tions; nooey Lotldno childtwt coed 0-11 PAer  hot
don 0I.0 h.. been toohed.                                                                edjeeted for difforet lengths of prinery odocttlo; for cootriss   iclh
Pontlation dop-qnoiiltour                                                         oninstMeel.    Aducetoe  ento1lent  57 on-sed 100 portent         . steo   .00pPilo  t
Pnr o.  e.    tld-yet  oposnin pr eqetsitltet(10  beteos)1elh    abcor  the offuit1 .obel ego..
of toteS arse.                                                   ~~~~~~~Seoedsro Acol-ttl            mels  n  faI     - C-pted so obon; ostomder  edot.
ko  o   e. soiclotl ed - Campotd 05  bhot  for eglutoe   ed                           tics  r.. .the  lt loe      e  poso   ppoo    tnretcrtie;polo
ma i.                                                                                     oontel nottional, on  Mtheroo  tretefog   nettottlon   forpol  ostt.olv   f
stie  as.stroto?     (Mt,et  .ch'idten  (0-14 yet),srkidg-ege                  12 to 17 yeasm of eon; onrs                .-ec  astee or. S-eontly entlode4.
f134d  veto. sd   ntied(ISyot; ra    over) se porcenteoe  of nid_               Youtslobal " nl.tIOeonto                  goten )y   - Vorstiensl inetitotiton   too lode
ye.t pqpletOen; 1960, 1970 AMd 1977 dots..um.1i:_                                                                     rtrPOe.hc p-.  npo.t,orA
oooete  n    rtht      Onemrcentl - totel .Asmel grasth  etes. of totel               decleslal,  ofde.rt.-dory o.the t onneotimpeeo ompnoel.o 
nU.setpo..ltlne  or 1930.40, 1960-70, end 1970.77.dpronso   oodr   ntttee
P-th  .u. ofn Mot-e rtl  -otoet  ndsnodory  - Total  -odmOut  e-rolle  I0
penoltt7:Af oneS~ 5-6. ge  retet!)  o'rbot*Aoa   eet  ttso   00                             r       end  ocodey lovol  divided by  .. ore  of t-hco.t In  the  ot--
Ol-ystpoleon1901 0ed97dt.                                                              prcnoootolsot  popultion   oed 15 yoore sod oro.t
Crod. jet  rmte (ne togen,             nna  deetho Per tbOooed of Aid-
rstpplto;  90   90sd1977 d t..                                                     C0IOAPTIUbio
iro gerodoitton rnet  - A-eteg  .-ahr of d.Shtsr.   eao          will het           Psoetheo.o-hues   Otaln  -' Peono- tote  :amprle   -oo  cets
inht _onltptodottlo. period if -h. ooprtiamc.  prosont *s-                      PEeaobo  10.  then sight persons; exlue .nosco    ots.ednlt
opeftfi  fertIlity rtece; 0.0.117 floe-yeer oroosse  .odioo in 1960,                     olo.
1970, sdd 1975.                                                                        Rsd1io Iostr         fonthibsoso  Oonoltion( - All type. of rcirofor  -edio
Penie oais  - eoeooon aensi thaoje-B           -nea  Cabot of                    broodoet  to      nee  pbhlic pert hooeOnd of PoPulatIon;  -1cldos    I .....nod
otopto    of btt.-Motl drie   ndrsnineo   etne                          tyeiscosre  iO  Otrti.. And In y-At shot tefitratien  of radio ests  -e I.
P1ooo IsProgram.                                                                          offftt: jet  fo  rOtcont yeas  soy not ho conarabl. em. not cotetrton
F enIl! oloolate  enero enonant of nrrteP.-inoS. Ptotosf                      bItahed Iinem,iog.
ertied teno  of  cifh.lgeop  (15oh4 years) who m.a  birth-nont-1                       Tre Ierfetthoesen  n oationl, - TV tttenfor hroadc...t n. o ge-It
'iyt.. no All s-orid n         to emo  age step.                                         poabllc Por thenn   pplio; eocWase -lic-nsomd TV recol1ter  intor
tries .ad to yeAshe. w      rogloostraie  of IV onete. in tOffoot.
lode 00  ood  todotion teola (160-7  a 105  -1040  of Pet -apote             tine of `daily   eate-l hneee  _eopP,t'. doffd es A prrtdicel Poshl i
sene,e  prodution ofPI m food  inodtio..1   Prdcio   onlj                 med end         caton drotod prinstily no tecordieg S""o I em    ItIs toe, tderod to
fend end I.so en clenr y..   b heis.  Cm-Ojiti.. c-or polesry goode                       he "dadl7  tf it Appeeresi lou.At fon  tne   eroA
(..egreoisaotod of oute) whi.h ate .dilhl  ed   eOmt.i. ntriente               Ciete__ aneno  scttsd c. ner ceit. mrt Ytee   - Oaesd onth. nebar of ttcheto
(.cofnodtoo  -t srlded).  Aggreet. pdoodtion  of .e-h  Ionr                       od dsleth et,  rmclodieso ad.deis,i to drOve-In tina   sod eohilo
10hsd   ovtal   -opeag  prodcer price  -egtab.nie
Percelt sony   f ce-orls   (nrot of rnoie"ot     - CoPtedfte
oneroy sqoosor  off netfod ssppLi.e  oretshl   00 tootyptceief                           _______________
pot day.  k.et.lsh     ..pphtee tenpttso  dmettc  prod-Ition, importt  loot          '1ejjiior  fotoofhoooende    - ionoicolly  eOtiv  peore, imcl.dleg sad
neIue  and cenge  In stok,  not eepplln   etld    Anos  fo,  oe                          f ..o  so nfenployed hot ooldloo hoosowioc ......dot,  t.r.  Di.toc-
qe.ct tieo~  -sd In Iso  proteseln, end lm.eos In di tr1botio.  Rs.-                      ties I. voriog,e cowotrin  Ats sot cwotebls.
qoirmocs nret  A.,nIeind by FAO hose.d en phy.iloioncel nOeds for so-                  EP i          -tMn    - eal  l.bdr forco  Asprsco  of tote1 lohbt Iorot
-e cIviy  AM  health co deriarlo .e ,ortt.nsl tenpsertoto, hodt   Laborftorte   to  oIg  foretry, hstiOg end fi.hin
enights, eop  ad  -e  dietrihotlon    of pspol.tion, s-d sl11-tg 10 Per-                  As parcent.Ss of total laher torus.
cent tot westo At hsomehtod level.                                                     ji~g.saXJEnast  . Labor forth  to eliin,  -ont.toniton   m..sfaccore   sodd
Pot enit nool, f ottot for    netda,   - Prot i- cantnt of Pot                  olstriciy  wetr end ges Am p-tuotg. of ctaul labot fort..
ospte  .0  eppy o  fod pt dy."eon sopply of fod Im hfOmed e                      stceno   e.CmnS*ttlms   n   eee-ltlie no
:boon.  1toqoimtant   for all c-trntto   subtelis.hd by USIA prooida for                  eacinto"`tece   ate oa.te          00ttl   ob   n   a          shrtt
e  iInimelte .11 n   Of 60 Sri   of total protein Pet day eAM  20 St                    pteneneo -       tor..    soLo en Am    eppltn    felsn   e                 rioy
of enfenl end p.10 prOute.,of which 10 gtmmm sh-Id he Aeinsl Poi.                         1960, 1970 end 1975 date,  Thu.s -t  ILO.O   p-rticip.tio, totes toflectiag
Tin. otenders at  lamr~ than thess of 75 arina of totI protein end                        0-o    teotofho epstn,ndln0.0oo.Atnntete
23, grnof enI"eI pntotio a. en eerege for the sorld, proposd by                           ASte   t  netonel  oofuLi.P".t- AM1                      t     t .A         .t te
oAoI In the Thitd World Pod lS.-Ay.                                                     Acnnl fr-     deo   etc-isl    f  oustotidrIIsd63ednort
Pot  ..uso     e.toti 00k  frn.is  o   os                 P-otic eooply of                  telh ffort-oS.d.-d.  -n  o  o atoe   of  ppl,vote.Pdr15.d6   Adyrt
dtvd (con e,eI- ad to1... cc SteePec day.                                             0         ..    o.    .AoSo,o    56
Chid  :.ee1-..  _ ottel ry  t. (nec  thosod) ;.- Aeo   d.othte per tho. -                    IUmOTC
nd in sge group I-Wier, ;to  hbldra. ic tho son grp; for nes                            ror...rtco of privtloeo(thicebsdidrcoodyriht3
d.-   "I.   riyd ft-  lif. tabl...                                ~~~~~porcot, rlcboot 20 Parc...t. Poores  20 Parcent.  an d p-r-oe  40 Per-n
MALT                                                                  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f h-bnhldo.
Lifo   PAectct  At birth tveAro( - so-reg    --..5  of yeer.of (if.tner
"Is ec hrtbh  191. 197. sod 1977 dAte.                                                 VETTAI   ROf
oreves  ofeoopet\thosad lvebttthe                                               Ab-olot  poverty tet. to   ste   naintel heloe, Aii                               I lle
Accoe t                         .ef  ..o ....cnt o   tooeion  -:itothal. rlb-, aod r-tI -   corln"io ly sdqoete dion pl.a osnntle1 no--fcod tof.ato-tnn   (0oc
Vahot of people  (toel  ohe, sod totl)  lu  tosool  eccoo   t.                            affodabl  .
estoweu-r .oPly (i-ulod..   troAd  -orac   --er  or  -t             -d bun             E- i utd relation pov ,r, JncAaA n 1- 1   net$ cM ni.               -b-he  Ad tot- 
baonrsioand - ner ...h Ac that fton protectd borohohe., epritge.                       Otota   .I.,tico  povety  -oron  IsocI in   cettf  t           o   po  t'P"te
sod snu%t 'is1it  enpeccto              f th.it  . topectbo   population.p-oe  iot    of I'ho country.  (htkvli I-th.dolvod fror   .the  ore
lne.nsAAoo  pblc  oois  -t etendPot las-ted no  onto than                               leve  .ott  edjeetnt tor high-c cos   f lvioc. in otte, te....
hOncto   rAe ho-. soy he  oridord so bouug .ithin tees neebl                         ."cuin d ncculaOiot hbl1n ebeuhocveu   otolve    eoot u                             n
Ototth      ta  hoe   7 -l  rs  reasonbleA oct... ors1d  toply                         r      - ret-ot  of popoleti   butho  so   utf  o?-- ,t   poor.
-ht -e soif. or   bets  cI the h-noho1d do not tovo to sp-nd                                                                                   dS- 1Dt   n            -
d,pt-p-rtiono-  Pet  of the d., in f-tntti     nthe fally. .estr  -nd,                                                                  t-cn,s d Sos  beta O.ivle .--
r.coatc(teltri      L9 toettn   (p9tr,



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
-22-
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
OROSS NATION_AL PRODUCT 1_ __77                                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (N  constant prices)
US$ Hln.       ,t                        1974-77              .ZiL             1977
GNP at Market Prices          39839        100.0                          7.4               11.3              5.4
Gross Domestic Investment    12119           30.4                 '      30.7               24.5             23.6
Gross National Saving         11101          28.3                        26.3               16.6             17.8
Current Account Balance       -1018           2.5
Exports of Goods, NE'S        12639   ,    31.7                           1.9              .14.7              9 9
Imports of Goods, NFS         13236         33.2                         33.1               31.0             17.5
OJTPUT, LABOR FOPCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY I1 1976
Value Added                   Labor Forc-                     T. A. ?or Worker
US$ KIn.                         f_ln.
Agriculture                   12840       33.6                  1665       56                    778          60
Industry                      16528       43.2                   5.2       18                   3178         245
Services                                  23.                   6.2        21                   1427         110
UnaUocated                                                      1.6        5
Total/Average
38216      lOO.O                 29.5                                         100
OVERIIMENT FfTANCE
Oeneral Government                              C.ntral Oovermaent
rN   Mn.)          %,of G"                      (U      -jUn            ofODP
192717R        1917/8  1976/7-1977/8             1977/8        1977/8    1976/7-77/8
Current Receipts                   8809            34.1        34.8                  U686          26-6          26-6
Current Expenditure                sn47            19.5        19.0                  2697          10.4          10.0
Current Surplus                    3i62                        15.8                  4171 1
Capital Expenditures               8822            34.1        33.0                  6287          244,3         24
gxternal Assistance (net)
W5NFY. CREDIT and PRICES                  1972         1973        1974         19                      1977     1978
CPllion  N  outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                     1161.4       1414.1       2156.3      3622.5       5278.9    7067.5  7395.6
Bank credit to Public Sector               519.0        497.1     -1460.1      -1281.5        199.5    2094.4  3238.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector              750.2        854.4      1070.2       1786.1       2417.8    3443.0  4623.9
(Psrcentagea or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of'6DP           15.1         15.9         14.9       21.9         26.7      27.3     Da.
General Price Index (1960) - 100)          172.9        203.9        217.0       289.6       352,4    423.1      492.5
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                         -3.5         17.9          6,3        33.5        21.7      21.5       16.4
Bank credit to Public Sector                -2.3         -4.2          n.a.       n.-.         n.-.    n.&.      5.
Bank credit to Private Sector               26.9         12.7         26.6       66.8         35.4      45.3      34.3
NOTE:t All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
V  Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.  wUnafloca&tdv consists
mainly of unemployed  .rkers seeking their first job.
2/ Index of Urban Coiisuncr Prices up to 1977. National Price Indcx from 1978.
Not applicable



ANNEX I
-23-                            Parge 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976-78)
1976     1977      1978                                                US $ Min    %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS          i0,549   12,974   10,979             Crude Oil                            10,170    92.5
Imports of Goods, NFS          10,517   13,271   14,242             Cocoa Products                          477      4.3
Resource Cap (deficit . _)          32     -297   -3,263            Palm Products                            38      0.4
Tin       .                             20      0.2
Interest Payments (net)            386      324       246           All Other Commodities                   292      2.6
Workers' Remittances               -        -         -
Other Factor Payments (net)      -676      -860      -476                                                      -
Net Transfers                    -156      -156      -270
Balance on Current Account       -414      -989   -3,763                   Total                         10,997   100.0
Direct Foreign Investment         340       440       186           EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1978
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                    61       96    1,434                                                        US $ Mn.
Amortization                   -29   .  -62        -22
Subtotal                        32        34    1,412              Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              2,180
Capital Grants                    - .       -         -               Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Copital (net)              -453      -112        _5             Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i                - 12      -216      -176
Increase in Reserves (+)         -507      -843   -2,346            DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1976'
Gross Reserves (end year)       5,517    4,617
let Reserves   (end year)       5,433    4,590    2,244               Public Debt. incl. guaranteed             0.8
Non-Guaranteed P~rivate Debt                *
FUel and Related Materials                                            Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                          280      158       174
of vhich: Petroleum            -        -         -
Exports                        9,468   11,553    9,488
of which:  Petroleuw         9,468   11,553    9,488    IBRD/IDA LENDING. (Dec. 31, 1978) (Million US $):
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                         IBRD         IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed                450        38.3
197T:  N1.00  -  US41.62                                          Undisbursed                            343          -
1976:  N1.00  - US$1.60                                           Outstanding inel. Undisbursed                      38.3
1977:  K1.00  -  US$1.55
1978:  N1.O0  - US$1.58
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to E ports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
* Less than 1X
Not Available
September, 1979



-24-
A1NNFX IT
Pa5 e 1 f 6
THE STATUS OF BANK *ROUP OPEPATION_S IN NICERIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERTA
(as of August 31, 1979)
Loan or
Credit                                                                  US$ million
Number      Year      Borrower     Purpose                       hoount (less cancellations)
Bank     IDA   Undlsbursed
Fourteen loans and two credits fully disbursed                   319.3    35.3
427        1965      Nigeria      Roeds                          14.5              2.5
814        1972      Nigeria      Education                      17.3              2.9
838        1972      Nigeria      Roads                          26.3             10.1
847        1972      NEPA         Power                          76;0              2.5
922        1973     NPA           Port                           55.0              4.8
929        1973     Nigeria       Education                      54.0             47.5
1045        1974      Nigeria      Cocoa Dev.                     20.0              6.2
1091        1975      Nigeria      Livestock                      21.0             17.0
1092        1975     Nigeria       Agri. Dev. Funtua              29.0              2.9
1099        1975      Nigeria      Agri. Dev. Gusau               19.0              2.1
1103        1975      Nigeria      Rice Dev.                      17.5             10.4
1164        1975      Nigeria      Agri. Dev. Combe               21.0              5.2
1183        1975      Nigeria      M.W. State Oil Palm            29.5             26,5
1191        1976     Nigeria       E.C. State Oil Palm            19.0             16.1
1192        1976      Nigeria      W. State Oil Palm              17.0             13.3
1454        1977     Nigeria       Agri. Dev. Lafia               27.0             23.4
1455        1977      Nigeria      Agri. Dev. Ayarngba            35.0             30.2
1591        1978      Nigeria      Nuc. Est. Smallholder Oil    30.0               30.0
1597        1978      NIDB         Industrial Dev.                60.0             60.0
* 1711        1979      Nigeria      Water Supply - Kaduna          92.0             92.0
* 1719        1979      Nigeria      Agri. & Rural Pgmt. rnst.       9.0              9.0
Total                                     1008.4    35.3   414.7
Of which has been repaid                   131.2      2.0
Total outstanding l/                       877.2    33.3
Amount sold                     16.8
of which has been repaid        16.4         0.4
** Total now held by Bank and IDA             876.8    33.3
Total undisbursed                          414.7.    0.0   414.7
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as ofAugust 31, 1979)
Fiscal                                          Type of            Amount in US$ Million
Year                                           Business           Loanl  Equity   rotal
1964, 1967,      Arewa Textiles Ltd.            Textile Mfg.        1.0    0.6       1.6
1970
1964           Nigeria Industrial             Dev. Fin. Co.              1.4       1.4
Development Bank Ltd.
1973           Funtua Cottonseed              Veg. Oil            1.6              1.6
Crushing Ltd.                 Crushing
1973           Nigerian Aluminum              Aluminum            1.0    0.3       1.3
Extrusion ltd.                Processing
1974           Lagiagi Sugar                  Sugar                      0.1       O..1
Estates
Total Gross Commitments                           3.6    2.4       6,0
Less cancellations                              0.3              0,3
Less sold or repaid                             1t9    1.5       3.4
Total Commitmaents now held by IIC                1,4    0.9       2,3
Undisbursed                                               0.1      0.1
* Not yet effective.
** Prior to exchange rate adjust.entq.
1/ Excluiding cancellation of 5.0.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 427-UNI    Western Nigeria Road Project:  US$14.5 million Loan of
September 26, 1965; Effective Date: March 29, 1966;
Closing Date: March 31, 1975
The project has been completed. The Bank awaits word from the Gov-
ernment on the closing of the loan.
Loan No. 814-UNI    Second Education Project:  US$17.3 million Loan of
April 18, 1972; Effective Date: November 28, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
There has been substantial improvement in recent months in project
implementation.  Of the 30 project schools, 6 have been completed and 14 are
more than 90 percent completed. The project unit has been strengthened, and
has successfully assumed responsibilities previously handled by consultants.
The loan should be fully disbursed by December 31, 1979.
Loan No. 838-UNI    Fifth Highway Project:  US$26.3 million Loan of
June 26, 1972; Effective Date: February 20, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The construction components of the project have been complested.
The closing date of the loan was recently extended in order to compleste
disbursements and to allow consultants to complete preparation for a Sixth
Highway Project.
Loan No. 847-UNI    Fourth Power Project:  US$76.0 million Loan of
June 30, 1972; Effective Date: June 26, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
While the completion of the rural electrification component has
been delayed, the project is expected to be completed by the end of ithe year.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them.  They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
Loan No. 922-UNI    Second Lagos Port Project:  US$55.0 million Loan of
August 1, 1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Civil works are complete. Container cranes are now on order and
will be in operation by the end of 1979. Total project costs are much in
excess of the appraisal estimates due to labor awards and cost overruns.
A revision of the tariff structure in 1977 considerably improved the finan-
cial situation of the National Ports Authority.
Loan No. 929-UNI    Third Education Project:  US$54.0 million Loan of
August 16, 1973; Effective Date: January 14, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Since appraisal, project costs have increased fourfold and the
scope of the project has been revised. Project administration was complicated
by the partition of many states in 1976. The project unit has been strengthened
recently by the appointment of a full-time project director, and the states
have made adequate financial provisions. Project implementation has been
improved and with all contracts awarded, the loan should be fully disbursed by
December 1982. A revision of the project scope was approved by the Board in
September 1979.
Loan No. 1045-UNI   Second Cocoa Project:  US$20.0 million Loan of
October 11, 1974; Effective Date: October 15, 1975;_
Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Although the creation of new states has created some organizational
and managerial problems, the project is almost completed in all four states.
Planting targets have been achieved, but other physical development, including
road development, has not fully met planned objectives. A follow-up project
has been appraised.
Loan No. 1091-UNI   Livestock Development Project:  US$21.0 million Loan
of March 20, 1975; Effective Date: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1981
Project implementation has been slow due to the creation of new
States and operational difficulties. Serious problems of counterpart funding
from the Federal Government have been encountered. A contract has recently
been concluded with a management consulting firm and, as a result, prospects
for project implementation are greatly improved.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Loan No. 1092-UNI   Funtua Agricultural Development Project:  US$29.0 million
Loan of March 20, 1975; Effective Date:  January 5, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily with excellent
farmer response and the full support of both Federal and State Governnents.
Demand for inputs is consistently above appraisal estimates. The federally
controlled Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation and Planning Unit
financed under this loan is fully operational. Project costs are in line
with appraisal estimates and disbursement is proceeding satisfactorily. An
expanded second stags project to cover the remainder of Kaduna State has been
appraised.
Loan No. 1099-UNI   Gusau Agricultural Development Project:  US$19.0 million
Loan of April 4, 1975; Effective Date: January 5, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
The project is progressing satisfactorily with support froma both
Federal and State Governments. Farmer response is good and appraisal, objec-
tives are being met and in some cases exceeded. Project unit costs a,re some
25 percent above appraisal estimates due to domestic inflation. There have
been problems relating to the timely delivery of fertilizer supplies which are
centrally procured by the Federal Government. Recent agreements between the
Bank and the Government on the streamlining of fertilizer procurement should
help to resolve this problem. The possibility of a second phase project is
being examined.
Loan No. 1103-UNI   Rice Project:  US$17.5 million Loan of April 25,
1975; Effective Date: January 10, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
Project implementation has been slow due to deficiencies in coun-
terpart funding and staffing limitations. The Bank has withdrawn from the
project component located in Cross River State because of acute problems of
cost overruns and inadequate physical progress. Plans to reallocate the re-
maining funds to project components in Anambra and Imo States, where physical
project progress is more satisfactory, will depend upon improved counterpart
funding and a satisfactory resolution of staffing problems.
Loan No. 1164-UNI   Gombe Agricultural Development Project:  US$21.0 million
Loan of September 29, 1975; Effective Date: December 29,
1976; Closing Date: July 1, 1982
The project is being implemented satisfactorily with full support
from both Federal and State Governments. Farmer response is most favorable.
The demand for inputs and the production of maize is exceeding appraisal
estimates. Problems in recruiting intermediate and junior staff continue.
The preparation of a feasibility study for an expanded second-stage project
to cover the remainder of Bauchi State has been completed; the expanded
project is scheduled for appraisal early in 1980.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Loan No. 1183-UNI   Mid-Western (Bendel) State Oil Palm Project:  US$29.5 mil-
lion Loan of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: October 17,
1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loan effectiveness was substantially delayed because of problems
relating to staff recruitment, land acquisition and completion of the Federal
and State Legal Opinions and State Loan Agreement. Appraisal targets have
not been met for the smallholder component as a result of financial and man-
agerial problems. Management has improved recently but planting targets are
behind schedule. Cost overruns are likely to be substantial.
Loan No. 1191-UNI   East Central (Imo) State Oil Palm Project:  US$19.0 million
Loan of February 12, 1976; Effective Date: April 6, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project implementation was delayed due to the creation of new states
and problems with intermediate and junior staffing. The latter have now been
resolved, but there are problems of local counterpart funding. Appraisal
targets have not been met and substantial cost overruns are expected.
Loan No. 1192-UNI   Western (Ondo) State Oil Palm Project:  US$17.0 million
Loan of September 22, 1976; Effective Date: February 13,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The smallholder component is facing managerial and financial diffi-
culties, and final targets may not be achieved. Problems with estate land
acquisition and funding delayed effectiveness, and will result in a reduced
planted area.
Loan No. 1454-UNI   Lafia Agricultural Development Project:  US$27.0 million
Loan of June 28, 1977; Effective Date: March 3, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Although local counterpart funding is now adequate, the project
is still experiencing some problems of a technical nature, particularly
concerning extension. However, Government is responding to Bank action, and
overall project progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1455-UNI   Ayangba Agricultural Development Project:  US$35.0 million
Loan of June 28, 1977; Effective Date: March 3, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
After experiencing some problems of local counterpart funding, the
project is now progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1591-UNI   Rivers State Nucleus Estate/Smallholder Oil Palm Proj-
ect: US$30.0 million Loan of June 6, 1978; Effective
Date: July 10, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The project's physical progress is satisfactory.



- 29 -
ANNEX I]:
Page 6 of 6
Loan No. 1597-UNI   Nigerian Industrial Development Bank, Ltd.:  US$6) mil-
lion Loan of June 15, 1978; Effective Date: October 24,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. The first sub-loans have
been processed and approved.
Loan No. 1667-UNI   Bida Agricultural Development Project:  US$23 million
Loan of September 17, 1979; not yet effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is moving towards effectiveness satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1668-UNI   Ilorin Agricultural Development Project:  US$27 million
Loan of September 17, 1979; not yet effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is moving towards effectiveness satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1679-UNI   Forestry Plantation Project:  US$31 million Loan;
not yt signed; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The loan documents are expected to be signed in late-October of
this year.
Loan No. 1711-UNI   Kaduna Water Supply Project:  US$92 million Loan of
July 16, 1979; not yet effective; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
The project is proceeding towards effectiveness satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1719-UNI   Agrirultural and Rural Management Training Institute
Project: US$9 million Loan of July 16, 1979; not yet
effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is moving towards effectiveness satisfactorily..



- 30 -
ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Lagos Power Distribution Project
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: 13 months
(b) The agency which has prepared the project: NEPA and Consultants
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank: April 1977
(d) Date of the first Bank mission to consider the project: December 1977
(e) Date of departure of the Appraisal Mission: October 2, 1978
(f) Date of completion of negotiations: June 22, 1979
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: January 31, 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Special assurances were obtained:
(a) That NEPA would appoint a Director of Training by not later
than December 31, 1979 (para. 36);
(b) That NEPA would, unless otherwise agreed by the Bank,
maintain a full 8 percent return on its net fixed assets
in operation (para. 40);
(c) That the Federal Government would from time to time discuss with
the Bank proposals for meeting NEPA's investment needs and their
implementation (para. 44);
(d) That the Federal Government would expedite approval of contract
awards by NEPA (para. 48); and
(e) That the Federal Government promptly notify the Bank of any
major changes in the operational responsibilities of NEPA
(para. 52).



4,   ~          ~~~ '    -: of                                                                                                                                         P 'O   ,3 ,    ': t ;      f.fV : X _ D  14'01
, ~ ~ ~ ~     ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      0                                                                                             '  S\otvq \ j!_/ K;  9  *- .-00  /<<   ak   pa
NA I  G   E  R              /                    ,                                  *  K                                   -                                     -U
,-' t(6bi                                                                                                                                                                   C Al
|    As orrsKebbi  g   )  >  0         i54           6      o      P                        0
) BroooKobb0   5   (o  Kl                                                                      J 7            *                                                r       A M F R O O N
Gusou   'I            A~~~~~~~~                                   ~       ~ A  5000H     P NI
~~~~~~~~/                                                               r                              ; b /0I?5vt e~& t  < 
Shi,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pisor
fl    1   /   t l   //  <-1C- >Kv                kl--)                (  > s-g  X       t>>>7;;,                     r tr- X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/-~, 
k  ''   9 tJ)   * - *   jo  ^ +          t           ioko u                        <                             C       C                    E   X       0       N ! mi-  N ,
'   '  ?   f ?          X   .,         ;                 6,  X            ?- F ¢(                      ''  D    f       D      E"K'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1''0
Jeb~~~~~~~~
B,d. ~  ~     (      o                                                                          ,o 
PopoAirJnto DL (r t \X6 E P if /\ ~~~~.k;Yi    f5  .                                                                                                        Ni 2G .: p I A       
S~~~~~~~~~~~~k                                                                                                                                                       Hy, p o(.;fi , -.... M  
Er uiAbe5.k. to O-,p .-t( . -                                                                      <            ; 00 00t    \ t   t 0 |     .  0          =     __== * 7 Gon=  i
F                                _tore
,0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                              0'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h,,l~wo
N                                                                                                                                                   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~./~~~~N~k
G      0                                                           0~~~~~~~~0W/3/ tk
I  Iseyon ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /'\,,, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~     ~      P5,li. 
1' ~ ~~~      e                              A    b    F      >                                     "  ~~~~~~~~~ I   330  &1~~~~~~2KVPOWERSYSIEM~~~~~30 
0( ALI                                                                                                                            '1                         (Hdotow-oo
K                 0       , wooo                          Ughe,                                                                               ~7Thon
NI ERA Olnt                                                                                         io    ,,              P200~t0
I                                 0   132/33/11kv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~50   2
lioro                                                        ago,                    i-"                                                 0   330/132 ko~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ke
GI ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TA'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~        ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~12k
G.-N,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                0              0               N






IBRD 14102R
JULY  1979
ToAloghodo 'o
N  I GE RIA                                                                                                         d    Topop Alo-to
LAGOS METROPOLITAN AREA                                                                          -od SoPel.                        'r ,
330, 132 & 33 kv Power System  & Billing Districts
Existing power lines:                                           .  From Crirho '
330 kv                                                              \ K.irii
-132 kv
33 kV
Committed power lines :
132 kv
Project power lines:
-          132kv                                                                    IKEJA                                                            Ho-
-            33kv                                                                                                                                    MAPYI-fq,
u--Num ber of cirCuits when more than one                                                                                                           1. PTC
Existing substations:                                                                                                   RPORTI
330 / 1 32 kvo
t     132/.33/ 11kv                                                                                                                                      ryl-d
0     33/ 11; k
Project substotions.                                                                                         b                                               hm 
*     132/33/11 kv                                                                                                                                  upeju     O
*     33/11 kv
Project substation extentions.               'u,h,n
*32/33/11 kv                                                                                                                        ril                                -   ,    t2. -ki ; 
*     33/ 11 kv
-    Billing district boundaries    7'
NIGER~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
. ~~~~ "~~~ Agbara/ <'''"                                        K&'GHSk    07    l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ agos  Zaogoon
vOLT PA                                                                                       A -)
Aroo     /              ,gV::\  \J 2 t )                          \                                                     F.0- Villo
_E,                   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z ; 
oro            CAnrN                               I4 G/  E/i                                 R      e/C_ -P                                                                                                                  Kilomete
B.d.gr,                                                                                               A F-I                                                    s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   
DAntmtopet Pp0             GAE,ON.                                                                                   eto0 |057 ::0;       ~  _7wTOoAmeo3  0E,!?34



