OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS       LOAN NUMBER 2043 ME
Guarantee Agreement
(Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER III)
between
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated       NO    vw 44,         , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2043 ME
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated NDVRwLf4, 6, 1981, between UNITED MEXICAN
STATES (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Nacional Financiera, S.A. (hereinafter called the
Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in
various currencies equivalent to one hundred seventy-five million
dollars ($175,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree
to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such
loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions Appli-
cable to Loan -and Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, 'unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor


﻿-2-
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan, all as set forth in the
Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Guarantor shall carry out Parts A
through G and Parts I through V of the Project described in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with sound administrative, financial, engineer-
ing and agricultural policies and practices and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Project shall be carried out in the following micro-
regions: Mocorito-Badiraguato and Norte in the state of Sinaloa;
Valparaiso and Tlaltenango in the state of Zacatecas; Costa Chica
and Atoyac in the state of Guerrero; Litoral Norte and Sur in
the state of Yucatan; and in such other micro-regions as the
Guarantor and the Bank shall agree.
Section 3.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor spe-
cifically undertakes to cause Banxico and Banrural, respectively,
to carry out Parts H (a) and (b) of the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound agricultural,
industrial, adaui.strative and financial policies and practices,
all in accordance with the provisions of the Banxico Project
Agreement and the Banrural Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall enter into the contractual
arrangements with the Borrower referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of
the Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Guarantor shall not change or fail to enforce any provision of
such arrangements.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall appraise, in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank, the investment plan of each micro-region
participating in the Project.
Section 3.05. The Guarantor shall, before carrying out
Parts A, B and D of the Project, obtain by written agreement


﻿-3-
with the beneficiaries of such Parts the right to require such
beneficiaries to repay as much of the investment cost of such
facilities through repayment of credit, cash or kind as shall be
reasonable taking into account the ability of such beneficiaries
to pay.
Section 3.06. In carrying out Part A of the Project, the
Guarantor shall ensure that, before starting construction of an
individual work, it will have obtained an agreement from a
Participating Bank or a Banrural Bank to provide credit to the
beneficiaries of such work.
Section 3.07. In carrying out Part B of the Project, -the
Guarantor shall ensure that teThnical plans (expedientes tecnicos)
will be prepared prior to the start of construction.
Section 3.08. In carrying out Part D of the Project, the
Guarantor shall carry out a review of livestock investments
previously financed under PIDER so as to develop design and
evaluation criteria for such investments, acceptable to the
Guarantor and the Bank, and thereafter, apply those criteria in
the financing of livestock investments under the Project.
Section 3.09. The Guarantor shall take such measures as
shall be necessary or advisable to ensure that the beneficiaries
of the Project will be provided with such credit as and when
required to utilize adequately the facilities and services
included in the Project.
Section 3.10. Except as the Guarantor and the Bank may
otherwise agree, investment per beneficiary family, excluding the
portion of investment financed by the beneficiaries out of their
own resources and credit, shall not exceed:
(a) $15,000 equivalent for Part A of the Project; and
(b) $10,000 equivalent for Parts B and D of the Project.
Section 3.11. The Guarantor shall maintain at the federal,
state and micro-regional levels such organizational arrangements
within SPP as shall be adequate for purposes of carrying out the
Project and monitoring and evaluating the Project.


﻿-4-
Section 3.12. Except as the Guarantor and the Bank may
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, other than those under
Part H of the Project, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.13. (a) The Guarantor undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Guarantor to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guarantor
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Parts of the Project
to be carried out by the Guarantor.
Section 3.14. The Guarantor shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project.
Section 3.15. (a) The Guarantor shall, at the Bank's request,
furnish to the Bank, the plans, specifications, contract documents
and work schedules for the Parts of the Project to be carried out
by the Guarantor, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Guarantor: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to record the progress of the Parts of the
Project to be carried out by the Guarantor (including their cost),
the results achieved by such Parts of the Project, to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Bank such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning such Parts of the Project, the
expenditure of such proceeds and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.


﻿-5-
(c) Upon the award by the Guarantor of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan transferred to the Guarantor by the Borrower, the Bank
may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality of the
party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Parts of the Project
to be carried out by the Guarantor, but in any event not later
than one year after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Guarantor and the Bank, the
Guarantor shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report on the
execution and initial operation of such Parts of the Project,
their cost and benefits and on the accomplishment of the purposes
of such part of the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any govern-
mental assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other governmental assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿-6-
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any of its political subdivi-
sions or of any agency; and the term "agency" means any agency or
instrumentality of the Guarantor or of any political subdivision
of the Guarai.tor and shall include any institution or organiza--
tion which is owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the
Guarantor or by any political subdivision of the Guarantor or the
operations of which are conducted primarily in the interest of or
for account of the Guarantor or any political subdivision of the
Guarantor.
I Section 4.02. The Guarantor covenants that it will not
take, or cause or permit any of its political subdivisions or any
of its agencies or any agency of any such political subdivisions
to take, any action which would prevent or interfere with the
performance by the Borrower or Banxico or Banrural of its respec-
tive obligations contained in the Loan Agreement, the Banxico
Project Agreement or the Banrural Project Agreement, and will take
or cause to be taken all reasonable action necessary or appro-
priate to enable the Borrower or Banxico or Banrural, as the
case may be, to perform such obligations.
Section 4.03. The Guarantor shall:
(a) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices the resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Guarantor responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof;
(b) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section verified in accordance with the Guarantor's ordinary
procedures;
(c) annually, furnish to the Bank a summary statement of
such accounts; and
(d) furnish to the Bank such other pertinent information
concerning such accounts as the Bank shall reasonably request from
time to time.


﻿-7-
Section 4.04. The Guarantor shall take all action which
shall be necessary or advisable, upon the recommendation of FONDO
or FICAR, to cause such import permits as shall be needed for the
importation of goods required to carry out the Project to be
issued as promptly as possible, in compliance with the legislation
and administrative procedures of the Guarantor.
Section 4.05. The Guarantor shall, in accordance with its
laws, appoint independent and qualified auditors for the purposes
of Sections 2.09 of the Project Agreements.
Section 4.06. The Guarantor shall cause the facilities
included in the Project to be operated, maintained and repaired in
accordance with sound engineering, technical, financial and
administrative practices.
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 5.01. The'Director General de Credito PG'blico de la
Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico of the Gu6rantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the
.purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Direcci6n General de Cr6dito PGblico
Secretaria de Hacienda y Cr6dito PG'blico
Moneda 4
Mexico 1, D.F.
Mexico
Telex:
HDA-01777
HDA-01313


﻿-8-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruct.on and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Telex:
440098 (ITT)
248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
By /s/    7w1s   9dvgt-Yejk.yj
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By   Isl                    LaAi
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to increase production of
basic foods, generate higher productivity and per-capita income
levels, raise the level of employment in rural communities and
improve living conditions in terms of nutrition, health, educa-
tion, housing and drinking water in selected micro-regions.
The Project consists of the following works and services
in the Project Area:
Part A:   Small-scale Irrigation
Development of small-scale irrigation schemes, con-
sisting mainly of construction of tubewells or small
dams with related distribution systems.
Part B:   Soil and Water Conservation
Construction of soil and water conservation works in
agriculturally productive soils.
Part C:   Crop Developmnt
Land clearing, improvement and preparation for annual
and perennial crop development including material for
establishing or rehabilitating orchards, coffee plant-
ings and coconut palm plantings.
Part D:   Infrastructure for Livestock Development
Establishment and improvement of infrastructure for
beef, dairy, pig, poultry and goat production, and
establishment of beekeeping installations.
Part E:   Forestry
Reforestation and afforestation in selected areas
in the states of Sinaloa and Zacatecas.
Part F:   Fishery
Infrastructure for processing and marketing facilities,
and technical assistance and training for fishermen to


﻿- 10 -
increase efficiency of production and marketing of fish
in the coastal micro-regions.
Part G:   Rural Enterprises
Development of new, and rehabilitation of existing,
rural enterprises.
Part H:   Credit
(a) Provision by Banxico of credit to Participating
Banks: (i) to make medium-term sub-loans to
beneficiaries of investments under Parts A through
G of the Project; and (ii) to make short-term
sub-loans to beneficiaries of investments under
Parts A through G of the Project, to finance
seasonal production and working capital;
(b) Provision by Banrural of credit to Banrural Banks:
(i) to make medium-term sub-loans to beneficiaries
of investments under Parts A through G of the
Project; and (ii) to make short-term sub-loans to
beneficiaries of investments under Parts A through
G of the Project, to finance seasonal production
and working capital.
Part I:   Extension and Applied Research
Provision of extension and research services and train-
ing of staff; and acquisition and utilization of
vehicles, field equipment and materials related thereto.
Part J:   Marketing
Construction of grain storage warehouses and small
rural stores.
Part K:   Beneficiary Organization
Provision of services to improve the social and economic
organization of farmers; acquisition and utilization of
support equipment (vehicles, furniture and field equip-
ment); and training of staff for the diffusion/promotion
teams in the micro-regions.


﻿- 11 -
Part L:   Rural Roads
Construction or rehabilitation of rural roads, and
promotion of and support for village-based committees
for rural road construction and maintenance.
Part M:   Rural Electrification
Connection of rural communities to the electricity
supply network.
Part N:   Productive Projects for Women
Execution of a program to increase employment opportuni-
ties for rural women.
Part 0:   Feasibility and Socio-economic Studies
Feasibility studies at the state level for productive
investments in such areas as irrigation, soil and
water conservation, livestock, rural enterprises
and marketing; and socio-economic studies at the
community level to determine baseline levels of nutri-
tion, health, income, employment, education, and related
areas.
Part P:   Education Facilities
Construction or renovation of, and equipping of primary-
level classrooms.
Part Q:   Health Facilities
Construction or rehabilitation of, and equipping of
rural health clinics or centers in communities benefit-
ing under Parts R and S of the Project.
Part R:   Nutrition Program
Promotion of improved nutrition including programs
of nutrition education and supplementary home pro-
duction of food; establishment of a nutritional sur-
veillance system.


﻿- 12 -
Part S:  Water Supply
Construction, rehabilitation or expansion of water
supply facilities as required to supply water to rural
communities.
Part T:   Self-help
Provision of materials for self-help construction
activities such as housing and sanitation improvements,
community centers and village workshops.
Part U:  Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring of the carrying out of the Project and
evaluation of its impact on the development of the
Project Area.
Part V:   Training
Training of staff of the Guarantor"s agencies and
departments directly involved in the carrying out of the
Guarantor's rural development programs.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1984.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA   Credits" dated March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Guarantor shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender or prequalification documents relating there-
to, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Guarantor and
the Bank shall agree; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportufiity to bid for the goods in question. The
Guarantor shall provide the necessary information to update such
notice annually so long as any goods remain to be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Goods shall be grouped so as to permit such bulk procurement
as shall be consistent with appropriate technical and procurement
practices.
4.   Account shall be taken of the availability of spare parts
and service for imported goods.
5.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods,
or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of domestically
manufactured or supplied goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes levied in connection with the
importation, or the sales and similar taxes levied in connection
with the sale or delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall


﻿- 14 -
not be taken into account in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii)
the cost to the Guarantor of inland freight and other expenditures
incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or
installation shall be included.
B.   Pr ference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Mexico may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.    After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Mexico if the bidder shall have -established to the
satisfaction of the Guarantor and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Mexico equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from


﻿- 15 -
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid, shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works may be awarded on the basis of the
Guarantor's ordinary procurement procedures. Insofar as prac-
ticable, contracts for civil works shall be grouped so as to make
the contracts attractive to bidders, and consistent with appro-
priate technical and procurement practices.
2.   Contracts for the purchase of goods costing less than
$350,000 equivalent may be awarded on the basis of the Guarantor's
ordinary procurement procedures.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods not covered by the
provisions of Part C of this Schedule:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Guarantor shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request in
consultation with the Guarantor. Any further modification to the
bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before it
is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 16 -
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Guarantor shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the
Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Loan Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of
such contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Guarantor and state the
reasons for such determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of     '* , 1981
FOR SECRETARY


