OFVl'CIAL
'OFF             LOAN NUMBER 2043 ME
DOCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER III)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO DE MEXICO, S.A.
Dated        AVTrv     4&         , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2043 ME
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                            , 1981, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and BANCO DE MEXICO, S.A. (hereinafter called
Banxico).
WHEREAS, by the Special Trust Agreement, Banxico has been
entrusted by the Guarantor with the Special Trust Fund for the
purpose, inter alia, of financing agricultural and livestock
development in Mexico;
WHEREAS the Guarantor, Banxico and the Borrower have
requested the Bank to assist in financing such development;
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and the Borroer, the Bank has agreed to lend to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hune.ed
seventy five million dollars ($175,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that Banxico agree to undertake certain obligations toward the
Bank as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS Banxico, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Category 1 beneficiary" means an individual beneficiary
whose main source of income is derived from farming, whose farm is
located in the Project Area, whose annual net family income does
not exceed 1,000 times the daily minimum rural wage for the region
where the beneficiary is located, and to which a Participating
Bank proposes to make or has made a sub-loan, or a group of such
beneficiaries; and


﻿-2-
(b) "net family income" means the net income of the family
of an individual beneficiary calculated in accordance with Sche-
dule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants of Banxico
Section 2.01. (a) Banxico shall carry out Part H (a) of the
Project described in Schedule 1 to the Guarantee Agreement with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
agricultural, administrative and financial policies and practices
under the management and supervision of FONDO, and shall provide,
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, all funds and other
resources which shall be required by FONDO to meet its operating
expenses.
(b) Banxico shall, for the purpose of carrying out Part H
(a) of the Project, make or cause to be made available, out of
FONDOrs resources or otherwise, credit on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, as required in order to achieve fully
and promptly the benefits of Part H (a) of the Project.
(c) Banxico shall exercise its rights in relation to each of
its sub-loans in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Bank, Banxico and FONDO.
Section 2.02. (a) Banxico shall enter into contractual
arrangements with the Borrower, satisfactory to the Bank, provid-
ing, inter alia: (i) for the transfer from the Borrower to Banxico
of the portion of the proceeds of the Loan required by it for the
purpose of carrying out Part H (a) of the Project; and (ii) for
the utilization by Banxico, in FONDO's medium-term program for
agricultural development, of the proceeds of repayment of sub-
loans under Part H (a) of the Project.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, Banxico shall
not change or fail to enforce any provision of such arrangements.
Section 2.03. (a) Banxico shall cause FONDO to carry
out its operations in accordance with sound agricultural,
administrative and financial policies and practices under the
supervision of experienced and competent management.


﻿-3-
(b) The organization of FONDO and the operational policies
of Banxico and FONDO in respect of Part H (a) of the Project shall
be satisfactory to the Bank and such policies shall include such
organization, procurement and credit policies as are set forth in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and such other policies as may
be agreed to by the Bank and Banxico, and Banxico shall ensure
that such organization, procurement and credit policies are, to
the extent necessary, duly and promptly implemented and carried
out to the satisfaction of the Bank.
Section 2.04. (a) Banxico shall cause the proceeds of the
Loan to be applied in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement and the Loan Agreement to expenditures for Part H (a)
of the Project.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, Banxico shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan for Part H (a) of the Project to be used exclusively in
carrying out such Part.
Section 2.05. Banxico shall apply to the Bank for approval of
any medium-term sub-loan to be made under Part H (a) of the
Project in excess of the equivalent of eight hundred thousand
dollars ($800,000) or such other amount as shall be agreed between
the Bank and the Borrower. When applying to the Bank for such
approval, Banxico shall furnish to the Bank a description of the
sub-project to be financed out of the proceeds of the proposed
sub-loan and such technical, economic and financial data regarding
such sub-project as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 2.06. Banxico shall cause the Participating Banks:
(a) to establish and maintain accounts to record their
receipts and payments for or in connection with Part H (a) of
the Project, including: (i) amounts received from and payments
made to FONDO; and (ii) amounts disbursed to and received from
beneficiaries; and
(b) to enable the Bank's accredited representatives to
examine such accounts.
Section 2.07. (a) Banxico shall: (i) maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to identify the goods and services


﻿-4-
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, to disclose the use
thereof, to record the progress of Part H (a) of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of FONDO and, in respect of Part H (a) of
the Project, of Banxico; (ii) enable the Bank's representatives to
inspect the sites, farms, ranches and other works and facilities
financed out of the credit made available under Part H (a) of the
Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish or cause to
be furnished to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Loan, Part H (a) of the Project, the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to
Banxico, the administration, operations and financial condition
of FONDO and, in respect of Part H (a) of the Project, the oper-
ations of Banxico.
(b) Without prejudice to its obligations under paragraph
(a) of this Section, Banxico shall measure and evaluate the impact
and results of Part H (a) of the Project on the basis of the
records it shall keep or cause to be kept for the purpose, for
selected sub-projects included in the Project. -
Section 2.08. (a) The Bank and Banxico shall cooperate fully
to assure that the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished.
To that end, the Bank and Banxico shall from time to time, at
the request of either of them, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the performance by Banxico of its
obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations
and financial condition of FONDO, the operations of Banxico in
respect of Part H (a) of the Project, and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) Banxico shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan or the performance by
Banxico of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.09. Banxico, in its capacity as Trustee of FONDO,
shall:
(a) have an annual audit satisfactory to the Bank made of
the accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements


﻿-5-
of income and expenses and related statements) of FONDO, for each
calendar year, in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent and qualified auditors;
(b) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year:
(i) certified copies of such financial statements for such year
as so audited; and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and
(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements of FONDO and the addit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 3.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of Banxico hereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with
its terms.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party
shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice
or making such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿-6-
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Banxico:
Banco de Mfxico, S.A.
5 de Mayo No. 2
M6xico 1, D.F.,
Mfxico
Cable address:
Banxico
Mexico D.P,
Section 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Banxico may be taken or executed by its
Director General or such other person or persons as the Director
General shall designate in writing, and Banxico shall furnish
to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti--
cated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 4.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the


﻿-7-
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO DE MEXICO, S. A.
By
Authorized Representative


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Organization, Credit and
Procurement Policies
A.   General
1.   Banxico will rediscount or otherwise finance medium-term
sub-loans made by the Participating Banks. FONDO's determination
of eligibility for such financing will be based primarily upon an
appraisal of technical feasibility of, and satisfactory return
on, investments. Each sub-project will be appraised and approved
by qualified technicians of, or acceptable to FONDO, before a
medium-term sub-loan is made. Appraisals of sub-projects will be
reviewed from time to time by FONDO in order to determine that
such appraisals show the technical, economic and financial
viability of the sub-projects and that the appraisals are in
compliance with FONDO's operating procedures and standards. The
Participating Banks will prepare, at the time of the approval
of each medium-term sub-loan, a plan for supervising the carrying
out of the sub-project and will keep a record of supervision
activities for each sub-project.
B.   Procurement Policies
2.   The following measures will be taken:
(a) FONDO will require beneficiaries to obtain price quota-
tions for goods or works to be financed under a medium-term
sub-loan from several local suppliers and contractors, whenever
practicable;
(b) FONDO will require beneficiaries to obtain pcice quota-
tions for imported breeding stock to be financed under a sub-loan
from several sources of supply, whenever practicable;
(c) for equipment and related services for agro-industries
to be financed under a zs-b-loan, FONDO will follow suitable
procurement procedures, either directly or through the Partici-
pating Banks, to ensure that the goods and services procured are
competitive in quality and price and appropriate to the needs of
the beneficiary;
(d) FONDO will make available to beneficiaries of sub-
loans for agro-industrial projects a list of suppliers of


﻿-9-
agro-industrial machinery from the Bank's member countries,
Switzerland and Taiwan; and
(e) FONDO will advertise once in at least one newspaper
of general circulation in Mexico, and inform once local repre-
sentatives of the Bank's member countries which manufacture
agro-industrial equipment, Switzerland and Taiwan about the type
of agro-industries to be financed under the Project.  If any such
country does not have local representation, such information will
be sent to the government agency responsible for its foreign
trade.
C.   Credit Policies
3.   Each Participating Bank will be required to provide from its
own resources not less than 10% of the total amount of the medium-
term sub-loans it makes. The balance will be rediscounted or
otherwise financed by FONDO. For this purpose, FONDO will make
available to each Participating Bank, promptly as needed, amounts
sufficient to cover such balances. The financing granted by
Banxico will have the same repayments of principal as the medium-
term sub-loans financed, and if such financing is granted through
rediscounting, such rediscounting will be evidenced by negotiable
instruments representing the medium-term sub-loan to be redis-
counted signed by the beneficiaries.
4.   In rediscounting or otherwise financing medium-term sub-
loans, the following rules will be applied:


﻿- 10 -
Minimum
beneficiary                              Minimum
contribution                  Yearly      yearly
(percentage     Maximum    rediscount   interest
of cost of    percentage    rates to    rates to
Beneficiary       sub-project of sub-loans Participat-     benefi-
category         financed)    rediscounted  ing Banks*   ciaries**
Category 1
(a) those            5%            90%
who
receive
insti-
tutional
credit
for the
first
time
(b) others            5%            90%
*    Provided, however, that FONDO may lower the yearly redis-
count rates to Participating Banks shown in the table when-
ever FONDO rediscounts to the Participating Banks less than
the maximum percentage of a medium-term sub-loan.
**   Any sub-loan made to an agro-industrial or fishery enterprise
owned by a Category 1 beneficiary shall bear an interest rate
on the sub-loan and a rediscount rate to the Participating
Bank 0.5% higher than the rates shown in the table.
*** Initial interest rates shall be those applicable on the date
of the agreement referred to in Schedule 1, paragraph 3 (f),
of the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 11 -
5.   The terms and conditions contained in this Schedule shall
not be different from those that the Guarantor and the Bank shall
agree from time to time for other agricultural projects in Mexico
to benefit farmers with socio-economic conditions similar to those
of the beneficiaries under the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of any other loan made by the Bank.
6.   No medium-term sub-loan will be made to an individual benefi-
ciary for on-farm investment if the amount of the proposed medium-
term sub-loan together with the aggregate principal amount
outstanding of sub-loans made for on-farm investment to such
beneficiary and financed by FONDO exceeds 5,000,000 pesos or such
other amount as shall be agreed between the Bank and Banxico. In
case the beneficiary is a group of farmers, such amount will be
multiplied by the number of members of such group.
7.   Lending terms and grace periods will be as set forth in
technical and financial plans. Repayments of principal of medium-
term sub-loans will range from 2 to 15 years and will include
grace periods of 1 to 3 years; provided that, in exceptional cases
and with the prior agreement of the Bank, repayment of principal
may extend to 20 years.and the grace period may extend to 5
years.
8.   Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, Banxico shall, once a
year, adjust the rates of interest payable on medium-term sub-
loans made after the date of adjustment to reflect the change in
the average of the prevailing interest rates in effect during the
preceding 12-month period compared to the average of the prevail-
ing interest rates for the 12 months preceding the previous
adjustment. For the purpose of this paragraph, "prevailing inter-
est rate" means an annual rate of interest which reflects the
average costs of borrowed funds to financial departments of
multi-purpose banks operating in Mexico as calculated monthly by
Banxico.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Calculation of Net Family Income
The net family income will be calculated by adding the
total income of all members of a family from their farm, or their
share in the income of a farm cultivated collectively, and any
other income from any outside source, whenever information about
such income can be obtained. In this respect, income from farming
will be calculated as follows: the amount of sales of produce,
adjusted for the value of changes in the stock of unsold produce,
less costs of all inputs (seeds, fertilizers, insecticides, fuel,
water, etc.), hired labor, hired machinery, crop insurance,
interest on short- and long-term loans, administration and depre-
ciation.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of *ww     198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


