Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  34910 
Project Name 
Third Jiangxi Highway Project 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
Roads and highways (100%) 
Project ID 
P093906 
Borrower(s) 
PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
Implementing Agency 
 
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
Jiangxi Provincial Communications Department 
Environment Category 
[X] A   [ ] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
January 4, 2006 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
January 4, 2006 
Date of Board Approval 
June 22, 2006 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
The Government of China is committed to developing an efficient multi-modal transport system 
to enhance competitiveness and promote development. At the core of their program is the 
National Trunk Highway System (NTHS), comprised of 12 major expressway corridors (five 
vertical and seven horizontal) connecting all provincial capitals and main cities. The initial 
NTHS backbone has made great progress towards providing the core network connectivity. The 
development is now shifting towards linking poorer western regions with eastern China, the 
engine of China’s economic growth.  
Jiangxi is a land locked province in south central China with a population of over 40 million. It is 
one of the lagging regions in China by every standard: (i) 32 counties out of a total of 99 
counties and cities in Jiangxi province are identified as poor; and, (ii) among which 21 are 
classified as national level poverty counties. 
Ganzhou City Prefecture is the largest prefecture and accounts for 24% (39,600 km
2
)
of
Jiangxi 
province. Located in the south of Jiangxi, it is a highly mountainous area. Most poor counties of 
the province are located in Ganzhou City Prefecture. With a population of 8.3 million, the 
prefecture has agricultural, mineral and manufacturing industries. The citrus industry, already 
annually exporting over 350,000 tons, is undergoing rapid expansion. There is significant 
potential for growth in the mining industries due to the high levels of non-ferrous and rare earth 
metals in the area.  
The need for improved high grade access to key facilities. 
Lack of transport accessibility is 
one of the constraints to the social and economic development of these southern landlocked 
mountainous areas. The Ruijin-Ganzhou Expressway (RGE) is planned to link Ganzhou and the 
area east to an expressway currently under construction in Fujian province. This will provide a 
high quality transport link to the coastal port and international airport at Xiamen (Fujian 
Page  2
province). In the future, the expressway network will continue to develop westwards, eventually 
connecting with Chengdu (Sichuan province) and Kunming (Yunnan province). 
The need for improved local road access to markets and services. 
 Local roads, Class IV, and 
unclassified roads, account for about 75% of the total mileage (61,860 km) of the road network 
in the province; and more than half of these roads are unpaved. Ganzhou City Prefecture is 
poorly served by local roads. Out of the total mileage of 11,544 km, over 77% of roads are Class 
IV or unclassified, some 2% lower than the average technical standard in the province. 
The need for improved sector management.
 The previous two Bank highway projects have 
helped the Jiangxi Provincial Communications Department (JPCD) improve their operations in a 
number of key areas, such as safety and road maintenance, however, more needs to be done. 
There is a need to further improve planning and safety processes at JPCD as well as to assist 
them to implement better quality assurance. There is also a need to start the delivery of anti-
HIV/AIDS education in the sector. 
 
2. Objectives 
 
The project development objective is to improve the exchange of goods and services between 
Jiangxi Province and the more developed provinces to the east (including exchanges with world 
markets through the air and sea gateways of neighboring Fujian province) by investing in the 
priority road system, improving local roads, and strengthening highway management.  
 
The objectives will be measured using the following outcome indicators: 
 
·
Increased average daily traffic in the Ganzhou-Ruijin corridor;  
·
Increased average daily traffic and reduced number of days closed on the road sections of the 
Local Roads Improvement Program; and 
·
Implementation of key recommendations from the institutional strengthening components. 
 
The project contributes to the sector related CAS objectives of facilitating trade, improving 
regional and market integration, and fostering the development of lagging Western Regions. This 
will be achieved by enhancing highway sector management and lowering transportation costs. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The east-
west linkages of the NTHS are critical for the development of China’s lagging regions 
and to attain the full benefit of the NTHS network connectivity. The RGE will be a key 
contributor to the development of NTHS and will stimulate trade led growth in a landlocked poor 
province of China. It will further strengthen regional integration and the competitiveness of 
Jiangxi province and its neighbors. 
The local roads improvement program will address the needs of the poor and disadvantaged 
people within Ganzhou City Prefecture. 
Page  3
The project will build on the institutional strengthening activities from the Bank’s previous two 
projects to assist the JPCD to manage the road network effectively. The project will address key 
areas, including safety, maintenance, operations, and HIV/AIDS education. 
 
4. Description 
 
Expressway Component: Ruijin 
–
Ganzhou Expressway (RGE) 
The RGE will be a 117 km long section (about US$657 million, or 89% of the total project cost) 
of the Xiamen 
–
Chengdu expressway, which belongs to one of the east-west corridors of the 
NTHS. With the main north-south corridors now complete, the focus is shifting to providing 
east-west linkages thereby completing network connectivity. It will connect Ganzhou City in the 
west with the Guangdong – Beijing expressway. In the east it will terminate just west of Ruijin 
city. The project will link with a 31 km expressway section between the RGE and the Fujian 
provincial border which will be built using a BOT scheme with a concession contract signed for 
a
22
year period (this BOT is considered linked to the RGE project so the Bank’s safeguard 
policies will apply). With the completion of the expressway, and the link between the Fujian 
border and Xiamen (under construction), Ganzhou City will have direct high quality access to 
the port of Xiamen. 
 
The area crossed by the RGE is a succession of three basins separated by mountains: the 
Ganzhou basin, the Yudu basin and the Ruijin basin. Between these basins the mountains are 
high, some exceeding 1,000 m of altitude. The main river between Huichang and Ganzhou is the 
Gong. In Ganzhou City, the Gong River becomes the Gan River. The Gong River links the 
Ganzhou basin with the Yudu basin via a narrow valley. The terrain is very challenging and 
required careful route selection and designs so as to minimize the environmental and social 
impacts while providing adequate access to local communities. 
 
Local Roads Improvement Program Component 
The Local Roads Improvement Program (LRIP) of approximately US$74 million aims to 
improve access in poor areas of the province. The amount of the Bank financing shall be US$10 
million.  
 
The LRIP will be implemented in two phases. Phase I of the program includes upgrading two 
existing roads: Chongyi – Fengzhou (Chonfeng) road (48.5 km) and Meicun – Longbu (Meilong) 
road (34.8 km). The additional road sections for Phase II will be identified using the same 
selection criteria as in Phase I. Ganzhou, the largest prefecture in the province, is the priority 
area for the LRIP, and is where the expressway component will be built. Currently its road 
network density is about 0.23 km/km
2
,
about 38% lower than the average road density (0.37 
km/km
2
)
in the province.  Among the total mileage of 11,544 km in Ganzhou City Prefecture,  
8,901 km of roads are Class IV or unclassified, some 2% lower than the average technical 
standard in the province.  As one of the poorest prefectures with lowest densities of road network 
in the province, the LRIP component will support high priority needs of local access. 
 
Institutional Strengthening Component 
The institutional strengthening component of about US$9 million includes: 
 
Page  4
·
Traffic safety operations for tunnels
.
A
provincial tunnel safety management plan will be 
established to ensure that there are adequate resources and procedures to handle tunnel 
emergencies. 
·
Traffic safety improvement for expressways. 
This activity will improve traffic safety 
conditions on expressways. 
 
·
HIV/AIDS. 
The JPCD will develop the ability to execute effective anti-HIV/AIDS activities 
for its staff, as well as those of contractors and other workers. An anti-HIV/AIDS program 
will be conducted for JPCD staff, workers on the JHP3 construction sites, and local residents.
 
·
Implementation of Electronic Toll Collection (ETC)
.
An ETC implementation strategy 
for Jiangxi province will be established based on the national ETC plan.
 
·
Micro-enterprises for Road Maintenance. 
In conjunction with Fujian province, a study 
will be done to investigate the viability of using micro-enterprises to maintain local roads 
applying techniques used in Latin America and elsewhere.
 
·
Training.
 Domestic and foreign training activities will cover a range of topics including 
design, safety, maintenance, management, finance, and the environment. 
·
Equipment. 
Equipment will be procured for expressway management and maintenance, and 
environmental monitoring. These will include weighing stations, quality control sets, and 
road condition monitoring equipment. 
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 542 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
200 
 Total 
742 
 
6. Implementation 
 
It is proposed that the Bank finances the project without any additional funding from other 
bilateral or multilateral lending agencies. Trust funds will be sought to provide additional 
funding to carry out some initiatives under the institutional strengthening component. 
 
The Borrower is the People’s Republic of China (PRC) which will on lend the loan proceeds 
through the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to Jiangxi Province on the same conditions as the Bank 
will lend to the PRC. The overall direction of the project at the central level will rest with the 
Ministry of Communications (MOC) located in Beijing.  
 
At the provincial level the Jiangxi Provincial Communications Department (JPCD) will be 
responsible for the overall project implementation in close coordination with Jiangxi Provincial 
Finance Bureau (JPFB) and support from the State Development and Reform Commission 
(NDRC), MOF, MOC, and Jiangxi Provincial Planning Commission (JPPC). 
 
The World Bank Loan Project Management Office (PMO), which is part of the JPCD, will act as 
the executing agency. It will carry out the procurement and financial oversight for the project, 
and will provide support to other project implementation units—such as the sub-PMO to be 
established in Ganzhou City Prefecture for the LRIP component—to fulfill their obligations. 
Page  5
After the RGE construction is completed, it will be operated and maintained by a division under 
the Jiangxi Provincial Expressway Management Bureau (JPEMB), which is a specialized agency 
under the JPCD. The JPEMB has limited administrative, management, and legislative authority, 
and is strictly controlled by JPCD.  Under the JPEMB, there are four expressway management 
divisions, each in charge of one expressway. The RGE is one of these four divisions. The 
JPEMB and its divisions are responsible for expressway management, maintenance, and toll 
collection. In addition, the JPEMB is also responsible for the administration of all expressways 
in Jiangxi except for three expressways managed by the Jiangxi Highway Bureau and Ganzhou 
City. Particular duties of expressway administration include: maintenance planning, road 
condition inspection, disputes management and compensation.  The supervision of construction 
of the RGE will be carried out by a domestic supervision team, assisted by foreign specialists on 
an as-needed basis. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
The sustainability of the project is d
efined by: (i) the current central government’s policy to 
improve accessibility to the western and central provinces; (ii) the provincial government’s 
commitment to establish a transport corridor with access to an international seaport; and (iii) the 
constantly growing traffic in the corridor, sustained economic growth of the province, and rapid 
development of the cities of Ganzhou and Ruijin.  All of the above are enhanced by the matured 
and well established relationship between the Bank and Jiangxi province through two successful 
lending operations. 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
The extensive experience that the Bank has developed based on the numerous highway projects 
in China and the corresponding lessons learned were incorporated in the project design. Among 
them: 
 
·
The development plans of large urban centers should be incorporated early in the project 
design of national and provincial transportation links.
 The development plans of Ganzhou 
and Ruijin cities were incorporated early in the project design to ensure good linkages to the 
expressway. The location of the alignment and some interchanges were adjusted to better 
reflect local development plans. The project is consistent with the provincial and national 
transportation plans. 
 
·
The preparatory activities greatly contribute to the project’s success.
 Substantial preparatory 
work, including land acquisition, resettlement, environmental impact and design studies 
performed during project preparation have contributed to the readiness of the project.  
 
·
Ensure client ownership of institutional components. 
The proposed institutional 
strengthening component builds on the achievements from the previous two Bank-financed 
highway projects in Jiangxi Province and the lessons learned on the implementation of 
institutional components of other highway projects in China.   
 
Page  6
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [X] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[X] [ 
] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[
]
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[X] 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Christopher R. Bennett 
Title:  Sr. Transport Specialist 
Tel:  (202) 473-0057 
Fax:  (202) 522-3573 
Email: cbennett2@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
