Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4830-CHA 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Third Jiangxi Highway Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
JIANGXI  PROVINCE 
 
Dated November 23, 2006 
 
Page  2
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement dated  November 23, 2006, entered into between 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the 
“Bank”) and JIANGXI PROVINCE (the “Project Implementing Entity”) (the 
“Project Agreement”) in connection with the Loan Agreement of same date 
between PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the “Borrower”) and the Bank (the 
“Loan Agreement”).  The Bank and the Project Implementing Entity hereby agree 
as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01.  The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Loan 
Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the 
Project Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Loan 
Agreement or the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE II – PROJECT
 
2.01.  The Project Implementing Entity declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project.  To this end, the Project Implementing Entity 
shall: 
 
(a) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General Conditions; and  
 
(b) 
provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project.  
 
2.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, 
and except as the Bank and the Project Implementing Entity shall 
otherwise agree, the Project Implementing Entity shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III – REPRESENTATIVE ADDRESSES
 
3.01. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Representative is the Governor or Vice 
Governor of Jiangxi province or such other person or persons as the 
Page  3
-2-
Governor or Vice Governor of Jiangxi province designate in writing, and 
the Project Implementing Entity shall furnish to the Bank sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person. 
 
3.02. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) or 
1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
64145(MCI) 
 
3.03. 
The Project Implementing Entity’s Address is: 
 
People’s Government of Jiangxi Province 
 
No. 69 Beijing Road 330046 
 
Nanchang, Jiangxi 
 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(86-791) 628-1344 
 
Page  4
-3-
AGREED at 
Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCITON AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: /s/ Mr. David Dollar 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
JIANGXI PROVINCE 
 
By: /s/ Mr. Zhu Guangyao  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  5
-4-
SCHEDULE 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
Project Management
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall maintain throughout the period of 
implementation of the Project, the PMO responsible for the overall coordination 
and management of Project implementation, including activities related to 
environment, resettlement, finance, and administration, headed by a qualified and 
experienced manager who shall be the director of the PMO, and assigned with a 
Deputy Director, a Resettlement Specialist, an Environmental Specialist and a 
Procurement expert, and assigned with such powers, funds, staff in adequate 
numbers and other resources as shall be required to enable the PMO to achieve its 
purposes. 
 
Social and Environment Protection
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall in the carrying out of Parts A and B 
of the Project and the construction of the BOT Expressway from Ailing to Ruijin, 
implement the Resettlement Action Plan, the Resettlement Policy Framework, the 
resettlement action plans prepared theafter, and the Environmental Management 
Plan, all in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank.  In particular, the 
Project Implementing Entity shall: 
 
(a) 
 take, all necessary actions to minimize to the extent possible the 
acquisition of land or assets of people, any involuntary loss by persons of shelter, 
productive assets or access to productive assets or income or means of livelihood, 
temporarily or permanently, and the displacement of said people in the carrying 
out the Project or any Part thereof and in the construction of the BOT Expressway 
from Ailing to Ruijin or any part thereof;  
 
(b) 
where the acquisition of land or assets or the displacement of 
people is unavoidable, make available to such people compensation in accordance 
with the Resettlement Action Plan and the Resettlement Policy Framework and 
before the carrying out of the works which would result in such acquisition or 
displacement, all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;  
 
Page  6
-5-
(c) 
in the event that two hundred or more people are displaced by any 
given activity under Part B of the Project: (i) prepare a resettlement plan in 
accordance with the Resettlement Policy Framework and furnish such plan to the 
Bank for approval; and (ii) prior to the carrying out of the said activity, ensure 
that all Displaced Persons shall have been compensated in accordance with the 
provisions of said plan; and 
 
(d) 
implement the Environmental Management Plan in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank and designed to ensure that the Project, including the 
construction of the BOT Expressway from Ailing to Ruijin, is implemented in 
accordance with sound environmental practices and standards acceptable to the 
Bank. 
 
3. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall not amend, suspend, or waive the 
Resettlement Action Plan, the Resettlement Policy Framework and the 
Environmental Management Plan or any provision thereof, without the prior 
concurrence of the Bank.   
 
Project Implementation
4.  
For purposes of carrying out Part B(b) of the Project, the Project 
Implementing Entity shall prepare, under guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than August 15 in each calendar year for the Bank’s 
review, beginning on August 15, 2007, an annual work program setting forth the 
activities proposed to be implemented under Part B(b) of the Project during the 
following calendar year.  
 
5. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall select roads under Part B(b) of the 
Project in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include 
the following:  
 
(a) 
the technical standard after construction for upgrading shall be 
Class III or Class IV road; 
 
(b) 
minimum daily traffic volumes of 400 medium truck equivalent 
(MTE) for Class IV and 500 MTE for Class III roads; 
 
(c) 
expected positive impact on population access to education, health 
and other production and/or commercialization of local products; 
 
Page  7
-6-
(d) 
contribution to Jiangxi province plan to improve the functional 
responsiveness of the highway network with good traffic growth 
potential; 
 
(e) 
broad support by local government and residents; and  
 
(f) 
an expected Economic Rate of Return higher than 12%. 
 
6. 
For purposes of carrying out Part B(b) of the Project, the Project 
Implementing Entity shall, prior to commencing works on any local road section 
selected pursuant to paragraph 5 of this Schedule, prepare and furnish to the Bank 
for its prior approval: 
 
(a) 
an economic and social benefits analysis and a technical analysis, 
including alternative engineering designs, proposed work plans and 
estimated costs; 
 
(b) 
an environmental impact assessment and, if necessary, an EMP; 
and 
 
(c) 
if necessary, and without limitation to the provisions of paragraph 
2
of
this Schedule: 
 
(i) 
for any local road section which requires the acquisition of 
land, temporarily or permanently, prepare and implement a 
resettlement action plan satisfactory to the Bank, in 
accordance with the principles and procedures set forth in 
the Resettlement Policy Framework; 
 
(ii) 
furnish the same to the Bank for its approval; and 
 
(iii)  
furnish any proposed revision of the plans referred to in this 
paragraph to the Bank for its prior approval. 
 
7. 
For purposes of carrying out Part C of the Project, the Project 
Implementing Entity shall, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank: 
 
(a) 
carry out the study on
 
traffic safety operations for tunnels by 
December 31, 2007, and, thereafter, furnish the recommendations 
of the study to the Bank for comments, if any; 
Page  8
-7-
(b) 
carry out the study on
 
traffic safety improvement for expressways 
by December 31, 2008, and, thereafter, furnish the recommendations of 
the study to the Bank for comments, if any; and 
 
(c) 
carry out the study on
 
electrical toll collection traffic safety 
improvement for expressways by December 31, 2007, and, thereafter, 
furnish the recommendations of the study to the Bank for comments. 
 
8. 
For purposes of carrying out Part C of the Project, the Project 
Implementing Entity shall carry out the training in accordance with annual 
programs acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports. 
 
The Project Implementing Entity shall monitor and evaluate the progress 
of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 5.08(b) of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set 
forth in the Annex to this Schedule.  Each such Project Report shall cover the 
period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Borrower not later 
than six weeks after the end of the period covered by such report for incorporation 
and forwarding by the Borrower to the Bank of the overall Project Report.  
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports; Audits. 
 
1. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall maintain a financial management 
system and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied 
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, both in a manner adequate to reflect 
the operations and financial condition of the Project Implementing Entity, 
including the operations, resources and expenditures related to its Respective Part 
of the Project. 
 
2. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall adopt and thereafter apply in the 
implementation of the Project, a financial manual, including financial 
management reports, satisfactory to the Bank. The Project Implementing Entity 
shall not amend, waive, suspend, abrogate or cancel the Project Financial Manual 
or any provision therein without the prior approval by the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Project Implementing Entity shall have its financial statements 
referred to above audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in 
Page  9
-8-
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank.  
Each audit of these financial statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of 
the Project Implementing Entity.  The audited financial statements for each period 
shall be furnished to the Borrower and the Bank not later than six months after the 
end of the period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
All goods, works and services required for the Project Implementing 
Entity’s Respective Part of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to the 
Loan Agreement. 
Page  10
-9-
ANNEX 
 
Performance Indicators 
 
The performance indicators referred to in paragraph A.1, Section II of this 
Schedule consist of the following:
 
PROJECT 
DEVELOPMENT 
OBJECTIVE 
 
OUTCOME 
INDICATORS 
USE OF RESULTS 
INFORMATION 
Improving east-west 
passenger and freight flows 
in Jiangxi province by 
investing in the 
construction of an 
expressway, enhancing 
local roads, and 
strengthening highway 
management. 
 
A. Supporting trade led 
growth in Jiangxi province 
through improved highway 
access to prosperous 
eastern region and export 
outlets 
 
B. Reducing poverty by 
improving access to 
markets and services for 
poorer areas of Ganzhou 
City Prefecture 
 
A. In the Ganzhou-Ruijin 
Corridor: 
A.1 Increased average 
daily traffic  
A.2 Decreased accidents 
on the existing road G323 
A.3 Decreased travel time 
 
B. On the road sections of 
the Local Roads 
Improvement Program: 
B.1 Increased average 
daily traffic 
B.2 Reduced number of 
days closed 
B.3 Reduced travel time 
B.4 Increased daily bus 
service 
 
A. The development 
plans of the local 
governments are 
integrated with the 
national and provincial 
transportation links and 
the highway access to 
Xiamen in Fujian 
 
B. The selection of the 
local road sections 
maximizes the benefits 
for the low income 
population in the 
Ganzhou City 
Prefecture 
 
Page  11
-10-
 
C. Improving highway 
sector management in 
Jiangxi province 
 
C. Implementation of key 
recommendations from the 
institutional strengthening 
components 
 
C. The policy-related 
studies, training and 
technical assistance are 
relevant and have an 
overall positive impact  
INTERMEDIATE 
RESULTS 
RESULTS 
INDICATORS 
USE OF OUTCOME 
MONITORING 
 
A. Approximately 117 km 
of
the Ruijin-Ganzhou 
Expressway (RGE) 
 
B. Local roads in the direct 
areas, area of influence of 
the project in Ganzhou 
City Prefecture 
 
C. Staff of the JPCD and 
related agencies with 
improved technical and 
management capacity in 
the road sector.
 
A. Completion of 117 km  
of the Ruijin-Ganzhou 
Expressway 
 
B. Successful improvement 
of local roads in the 
Ganzhou City Prefecture: 
Phase I = 83.3 km & Phase 
II to be determined  
 
C. Successful completion 
of the institutional 
strengthening studies and 
staff trained 
Monitoring of 
implementation 
progress and action 
plan to address possible 
delays 
