Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  02/08/2006 
Report No.:  AC2029
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  China 
Project ID:  P093906 
Project Name:  Third Jiangxi Highway Project 
Task Team Leader:  Christopher R. Bennett 
Estimated Appraisal Date: January 4, 2006 
Estimated Board Date: June 22, 2006 
Managing Unit:  EASTR 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Roads and highways (100%) 
Theme:  Regional integration (P);Other public sector governance (P);Export development 
and competitiveness (P);Rural services and infrastructure (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
200.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER 
542.00
542.00 
Environmental Category: A - Full Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The project development objective is to improve the exchange of goods and services 
between Jiangxi Province and the more developed provinces to the east (including 
exchanges with world markets through the air and sea gateways of neighboring Fujian 
province) by investing in the priority road system, improving local roads, and 
strengthening highway management.  
 
The objectives will be measured using the following outcome indicators:  
 
•
Increased average daily traffic, reduced accidents and reduced travel time inthe 
Ganzhou-Ruijin corridor;  
 
•
Increased average daily traffic and reduced number of days closed on the 
roadsections of the Local Roads Improvement Program; and  
 
•
Implementation of key recommendations from the institutional strengthening 
components.  
 
The project contributes to the sector related CAS objectives of facilitating trade, 
improving regional and market integration, and fostering the development of lagging 
Page  2
Western Regions. This will be achieved by enhancing highway sector management and 
lowering transportation costs.   
 
3. Project Description 
EXPRESSWAY COMPONENT:  RUIJIN - GANZHOU EXPRESSWAY (RGE)  
 
The RGE will be a 117 km long section (about US$657 million, or 89% of the project 
cost) of the Xiamen 
–
Chengdu expressway, which belongs to one of the east-west 
corridors of the NTHS. It will connect Ganzhou City in the west with the Guangdong – 
Beijing expressway. In the east it will terminate just west of Ruijin city. A 31 km 
expressway section between the RGE and the Fujian provincial border will be built using 
a
BOT scheme with a concession contract signed for a 22 year period. With the 
completion of the expressway, and the link between the Fujian border and Xiamen (under 
construction), Ganzhou City will have direct high quality access to the port of Xiamen.  
 
The area crossed by the RGE is a succession of three basins separated by mountains: the 
Ganzhou basin, the Yudu basin and the Ruijin basin. Between these basins the mountains 
are high, some exceeding 1,000 m of altitude. The main river between Huichang and 
Ganzhou is the Gong. In Ganzhou City, the Gong River becomes the Gan River. The 
Gong River links the Ganzhou basin with the Yudu basin via a narrow valley. The terrain 
is very challenging and required careful route selection and designs so as to minimize the 
environmental and social impacts while providing adequate access to local communities.  
 
LOCAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM COMPONENT  
 
The Local Roads Improvement Program (LRIP) of approximately US$74 million aims 
to improve access in poor areas of the province. The amount of the Bank financing shall 
be US$10 million.  
 
Ganzhou, the largest prefecture in the province, is the priority area for the LRIP, and is 
where the expressway component will be built. Currently its road network density is 
about 23 km/100 km2, about 38% lower than the average road density (37 km/per 100 
km2) in the province.  Among the total mileage of 11,544 km in Ganzhou City 
Prefecture,  8,901 km of roads are Class IV or unclassified, some 2% lower than the 
average technical standard in the province.  As one of the poorest prefectures with lowest 
densities of road network in the province, the LRIP component will support high priority 
needs of local access.  
 
The LRIP will be implemented in two phases. Phase I of the program includes two 
roads: Chongyi – Fengzhou road (48.5 km) and Meicun – Longbu road (34.8 km). The 
additional road sections for Phase II will be identified using the same selection criteria as 
in Phase I.  
 
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING COMPONENT  
 
The institutional strengthening component of about US$9 million includes:  
 
Page  3
•
Traffic safety operations for tunnels. A provincial tunnel safety management plan 
will be established to ensure that there are adequate resources and procedures to handle 
tunnel emergencies.  
 
•
Traffic safety improvement for expressways. This activity will improve traffic 
safety conditions on expressways.  
 
•
HIV/AIDS. The JPCD will develop the ability to execute effective anti-
HIV/AIDS activities for its staff, as well as those of contractors and other workers. An 
anti-HIV/AIDS program will be conducted for JPCD staff, workers on the JHP3 
construction sites, and local residents.  
 
•
Implementation of Electronic Toll Collection (ETC).  An ETC implementation 
strategy for Jiangxi province will be established based on the national ETC plan.  
 
•
Micro-enterprises for Road Maintenance. In conjunction with Fujian province, a 
study will be done to investigate the viability of using micro-enterprises to maintain local 
roads applying techniques used in Latin America and elsewhere.  
 
•
Training. Domestic and foreign training activities will cover a range of topics 
including design, safety, maintenance, management, finance, and the environment.  
 
•
Equipment. Equipment will be procured for expressway management and 
maintenance, and environmental monitoring. These will include weighing stations, 
quality control sets, and road condition monitoring equipment.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The proposed 117 km RGE expressway starts west of Ruijin City, where it links with the 
planned, 31 km long  Ruijin - Ailing BOT Highway to the Fujian border. It continues 
west past Ganzhou City where it links with the westbound section of the already 
constructed Xiamen-Chengdu Expressway. From the east to the west, the expressway 
crosses Ruijin City (0.60 million inhabitants), Huichang County (0.43 million 
inhabitants), Yudu County (0.90 million inhabitants), Gan County (0.56 million 
inhabitants), and Zhanggong County (0.46 million inhabitants) of Ganzhou City (8.3 
million inhabitants). At Ganzhou City the Expressway crosses a succession of three river 
basins - Ganzhou, Yudu and Ruijin basins. The mountains between these basins are high, 
some reaching 1000m.  
 
According to the EA reports, the natural vegetation type is dominated by coniferous 
forests, broadleaf mixed forests and shrubs and bush grass.  Because of human habitation 
and development, going back several generations, almost all the forest cover is tertiary in 
nature and does not support active floral or faunal population. As a result, there are no 
nature reserves or forest parks within the project area. Because of hilly/mountainous 
topography and soil structure and intense rainfalls, the area is highly susceptible to 
erosion and landslides.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Anil H. Somani (SASEI) 
Ms Youlan Zou (EASSD) 
 
Page  4
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
X
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
As with other "Greenfield" expressway projects the major safeguard issues associated 
with the RGE Project are: (i) the selection of an optimal alignment, to avoid and 
minimize the use of agriculture land; (ii) minimize noise, air pollution and other 
environmental impacts on villages and communities living along the alignment; (iii) 
avoid cultural relic sites and unstable geological terrain; (iv) carry out adequate public 
consultation; and (v) integrate the proposed environmental mitigation measures in the 
design and construction drawings and contract documents. The EIA report found that the 
proposed highway alignment does not pass through or near nature reserve or affect 
ecologically sensitive areas, and that its construction and operation would have no 
significant impact on the environment provided the mitigation measures given in the 
EMP are implemented. The final selected alignment minimizes the loss of agriculture 
land and loss of residences; minimizes the impacts and disruptions on the livelihood and 
day-to-day activities of the affected people and communities, and minimizes and 
mitigates the potential risks of landslides and erosion in the mountain areas. Studies 
carried out on the selected and alternative alignments, potential borrow areas and waste 
disposal sites, access roads, local roads selected for improvements, etc. did not identify 
any archeological or cultural relics in the vicinity of the alignment. However, provision 
for dealing with chance finds are included in the contract documents.  
 
The major environmental impacts will occur during the construction of the expressway 
and the other roads. Potential impacts are: increase in noise, increase in soil erosion and 
generation of dust during construction and transportation of materials.  Lesser impacts 
include alteration of hydro/geological regimes, interference with the day to day life of the 
local people, disruption of traffic and disruption of the local ecology and irrigation 
system.  The impact of construction materials transport (noise, dust, congestion, traffic 
safety, etc.) using the existing highways (such as G323) is also of a potential concern.  
Safe disposal of excess excavated material from cuts and tunnels in the mountain areas 
will require close attention and supervision during the construction.  Traffic noise, air 
pollution from vehicle exhaust emission, soil erosion and water pollution from service 
Page  5
and administration areas are identified as potential major adverse impacts during the 
operation period.  
 
The impact analysis indicates that, given the linear nature of the project and the efforts 
at selecting the optimum alignment, the project impacts are quite scattered along the 
roads.  Among the 66 affected villages along the expressway, only two villages will lose 
more than 10% of their farmland, and 31 villages will lose less than 5% of their farmland.  
All the 20 villages along the local roads will lose less than 5% of their farmland.  In 
conclusion, the loss of the farmland along the expressway is 4.85%, while the farmland 
loss of the local roads is 4.12%.  The socioeconomic survey indicates that the income 
structures of the affected farmers are quite diverse and on-farm income is only one of 
their many sources of income so the project will not unduly impact on the farmers.  
 
The total land acquisition for RGE is 12,535 mu, out of which 4,521 mu or 36% are 
farmland.  Land acquisition for LRIP is 3,094 mu, out of which 819 mu or 26% are 
farmland.  From the inventory survey, 1,541 households and 191 households will have to 
move for construction of RGE and LRIP.  As a result, 10,611 people in all will be 
adversely affected by the project due to land acquisition and relocation.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
One of the main reasons for constructing the RGE is to link the east-west corridors and to 
improve the effectiveness of the east-west Xiamen - Chengdu highway network in order 
to promote the socio-economic development in the Jiangxi Province and to improve 
accessibility in poor areas of the Jiangxi Province through local roads improvement 
program. The major indirect impacts would result from potential increase in tourism to 
the Tongtianyan Grotto. The construction of the six interchanges may also lead to the 
potential expansion of business activities at the interchanges leading to noise, dust, traffic 
congestion, etc.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
The selection of the final Expressway alignment has gone through four major iterations, 
beginning with the selection of two east-west corridors linking Ruijin to the Ganzhou 
City. These corridors were evaluated and compared with each other based on the length 
of the corridor, traffic volumes, proximity to major urban and population centers, 
topography and geotechnical conditions, flooding potential, land acquisition, 
resettlement, social impacts, environmental and cultural impacts, etc. The South line 
Corridor was chosen based on fewer crossing of the Gongjiang River, National Road 323 
and the GanLong Railway. The selected alignment also met the Local Government 
requirements. In stage two, within the selected corridor (South Line Corridor), two 
segments of the alignment, namely, the Yudu and Jiangkou sections were further refined. 
Of the three comparative schemes in the Yudu section, Yudu Scheme II was selected 
based on least land occupation and resettlement, and associated lower disturbance and 
impacts. The scheme also met with the local government approval. In the Jiangkou 
Page  6
section, Scheme I was selected based on the least land occupation, least resettlement and 
least interference with the GanLong Railway and National Road G323.  
 
During the Preliminary Design in September and October 2005, additional alignments 
were compared, as the design evolved and more geo technical, cost, environmental and 
resettlement information became available. After thorough analyses, some alternatives 
were selected based on lower environmental impacts (e.g. Scheme II of Yuyang-Hefeng 
section for shorter tunnel length and fewer noise sensitive locations; Scheme I of the 
Gongjiang section for lower impact on the river, etc.), some were selected based on lower 
resettlement and land occupancy (e.g. Scheme II of Yudu Tunnel) and some selections 
involved trade offs between lower construction cost and environmental impact against 
lower resettlement (Scheme II of Sanmen). In the cases where alternative alignments 
were not viable, because of the proximity to towns or mining easements, or railway, full 
consideration was given to mitigate adverse environmental and resettlement impacts 
arising out of the alignment. This is the case in Section K31 - K33.5 where the alignment 
passes through a flood prone area. Since the alignment could not be shifted and the 
construction of the expressway embankment would have increased the flood levels and 
the duration of the floods, the length of the viaduct was increased to minimize the 
increase in flood levels. Six impacted households would be compensated.  
 
The outcome is a well selected alignment with low environmental and social impacts, 
shorter length, and which avoids land slide prone areas, cultural relic sites and natural 
habitats.  
 
During the resettlement planning, the principle of avoiding and minimizing occupation 
of farmland and relocation of local households was taken into consideration.  For 
instance, the number of interchanges was reduced from 7 to 6; complex buildings will be 
constructed for toll collection, project management and road maintenance in 6 sites; 
options for Yudu tunnel and Yudu/Jiangkou alignment were analyzed.  Finally, options 
with less farmland acquisition and household relocation were selected.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
As part of the project, a site specific design and an EMP has been prepared to: (i) prevent 
environmental and social impacts, by judicious selection of the alignment; (ii) minimize 
the construction and operational impacts where possible, and (iii) mitigate the impacts 
through either stand alone technical measures or through incorporation of the measures in 
the design, construction specifications and contract documents. The EMP for RGE 
includes practical and cost effective remediation measures necessary to mitigate the 
project related impacts by incorporating them in the design and by implementing them 
during the construction and operation phases.  The EMP specifies the appropriate 
mitigation measures, environmental monitoring plans, training, institutional 
arrangements, implementation schedule, budget needs, etc. necessary to implement the 
mitigation measures and strengthen the borrower's capacity.  Major mitigation measures 
include: watering to prevent dust, installation of noise barriers and sound proof windows, 
relocation of households and schools to protect against excess noise, implementation of 
Page  7
safety measures during transport of materials, safe disposal of excess waste materials etc. 
The EMP also includes provision of extensive reclamation and re plantation of disturbed 
areas and slopes.  
 
The Jiangxi 3 Highway Project is the third World Bank financed highway project to be 
implemented by the borrower. Although the borrower has developed in-house capacity to 
implement, supervise and monitor the EMP, JPCD has agreed to extensive training and 
environmental supervision of the EMP. The budget for the training is included in the 
EMP.  
 
A
multi-level organization was established for implementation of the RAP.  This 
organization includes the Resettlement Offices at the Province level, Ganzhou City, the 
five County/City/Districts, and the levels below.  During project preparation, the offices 
were established, staffed and equipped.  The resettlement staff of the Provincial 
Resettlement Office is experienced in resettlement planning and implementation for 
Jiangxi Highway I & II projects.  The resettlement preparation was assisted by 
professionals from the Resettlement Research Center of Wuhan University.  
 
The Social Assessment (SA) was supported by professors from Zhongshan University 
and focused on social impacts of the project on the communities in the project area and 
consultation with the various stakeholders for improvement of the project design.  The 
SA confirmed that this project will improve the transportation conditions and improve the 
local economy.  It reflects the major concern of the villagers for land acquisition, 
relocation, road construction and road safety.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The key project stakeholders are the Jiangxi Provincial Communication Department 
(JPCD), the farmers who may lose land and livelihoods, villagers and communities that 
may be displaced, divided or impacted because of the alignment passing through or near 
their villages, and hospitals, schools, libraries and individual households which may be 
impacted by the construction and operation of the proposed expressway and the 
interconnecting roads.  The first round of public consultation was carried out in 
December 2004 during the preparation of the Terms of Reference for preparing the EIA. 
Two further rounds of public consultation (in March and September 2005) were carried 
out with the affected people and communities, and the relevant environmental and social 
information and documents were provided at the village/school meetings.  A total of 646 
people were consulted and the EA reports have been placed in 12 libraries of the affected 
areas in all cities and resettlement offices. In addition, the major findings and the 
summary of the EA reports have been published in the local and provincial newspapers.  
 
Public consultation and participation have played a key role in formulating the RAP.  
The affected farmers, village leaders and local governments participated in the census 
and inventory and they were widely consulted through the socioeconomic survey and 
social assessment on the project alignment to discuss compensation rates, livelihood 
rehabilitation strategy and relocation sites. Their feedback was incorporated in the RAP.  
Page  8
Public consultations and participation will continue during the RAP implementation.  
Affected farmers will play a key role in determining the usage of land compensation 
funds and selection of the relocation sites.  Project information will be provided to the 
affected farmers through TV, radio broadcast, newspapers, bulletins and posters.  The 
RAP will be summarized into a resettlement information booklet (RIB) and distributed to 
every affected household.  Regular consultation meetings will be held in the villages.  
The RAP was placed in the Bank InfoShop in December 2005 and in the libraries of all 
county/city/district in November 2005.  The availability of these reports was advertised in 
the Gannan Daily on November 20, 2005.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
12/06/2005 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
11/22/2005 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
12/06/2005 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
12/12/2005  
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
12/06/2005 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
11/22/2005 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
12/06/2005 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Cultural Property, the 
respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement 
 
Has a resettlement plan/abbreviated plan/policy framework/process 
framework (as appropriate) been prepared? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector 
Manager review the plan? 
Yes 
Page  9
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Christopher R. Bennett 
12/29/2005 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Anil H. Somani 
12/27/2005 
Social Development Specialist 
Ms Youlan Zou 
12/29/2005 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Glenn S. Morgan 
02/08/2006 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Jitendra N. Bajpai 
01/05/2006 
Comments:   
