       The People's Republic of China
World Bank Loan Jiangxi No. 3 Highway Project
      (Ruijin to Ganzhou Expressway)



 Environmental Management Plan


              (Fifth version)




     Jiangxi Province Communication Department

           World Bank Loan Project Office


                   Jan. 2006

                                                CONTENTS

 Forewords................................................................................................................................- 1 -
   1.1 Overview............................................................................................................................- 1 -
   1.2 Compilation basis...............................................................................................................- 1 -
2 Environmental impact assessment conclusions .........................................................................- 5 -
   2.1 Ecological environment .....................................................................................................- 5 -
   2.2 Water environment.............................................................................................................- 6 -
   2.3 Acoustic environment ........................................................................................................- 7 -
   2.4 Ambient air ........................................................................................................................- 9 -
   2.5 Social environment ..........................................................................................................- 10 -
   2.6 Pollution risk of transportation ........................................................................................- 11 -
   2.7 Alternative alignments.....................................................................................................- 12 -
   2.8 Profit/loss analysis of environmental economy ...............................................................- 12 -
   2.9 Environmental protection, management and monitoring plans .......................................- 12 -
   2.10 Public participation........................................................................................................- 13 -
   2.11 Comprehensive assessment conclusion..........................................................................- 14 -
3 Mitigation measures for Environmental impacts .....................................................................- 15 -
   3.1 Mitigation measures for ecological environmental impact..............................................- 15 -
   3.2 Mitigation measures for water environmental impact......................................................- 19 -
   3.3 Mitigation measures for acoustic environmental impact .................................................- 25 -
   3.4 Mitigation measures for ambient air impact ....................................................................- 41 -
   3.5 Mitigation measures for social environmental impact.....................................................- 42 -
   3.6 Traffic accident management and prevention measures ..................................................- 45 -
   3.7 Environmental protection measures for roadbuilding materials and transportation ........- 51 -
4 Executing organization for environmental management and its duties ...................................- 53 -
   4.1 Executing organization for environmental management .................................................- 53 -
   4.2 Environmental management plan.....................................................................................- 55 -
   4.3 Supervising organization .................................................................................................- 64 -
5 Environmental monitoring plan and environmental standard threshold value.........................- 66 -
   5.1 Environmental monitoring plan .......................................................................................- 66 -
   5.2 Environmental standard threshold value..........................................................................- 68 -
6 Ability development and environmental protection training ...................................................- 70 -
7 Implementation progress and cost estimation..........................................................................- 71 -
   7.1 Implementation progress for environmental protection measures ...................................- 71 -
   7.2 Investment budget for environmental protection.............................................................- 72 -

                  Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment




                                Forewords


1.1 Overview

    TheEnvironmental Management Plan for People's Republic of China World Bank

Loan Jiangxi Road Project No. 3(Ruijin-Ganzhou Highway)(fourth version) is based

on theEnvironmental Impact Assessment Report for People's Republic of China World

Bank Loan Jiangxi Road Project No. 3(Ruijin-Ganzhou Highway)(fourth version).

    The environmental protection measures, environmental monitoring and training

plans proposed in this report have been reviewed and agreed to implement by Jiangxi

Provincial Communications Department World Bank Loan Project Office, Jiangxi

Provincial Transportation Design Institute, and the Resettlement Office for this project.

      Jiangxi Provincial Communication Department is responsible for organizing the

implementation of environmental management plan for the People's Republic of China

World Bank Loan Jiangxi Road Project No. 3 (Ruijin-Ganzhou Highway). Jiangxi

Provincial Expressway Administration and Jiangxi Provincial Communication

Department World Bank Loan Project Office are responsible for the implementation of

environmental measures for this project during design, construction and operation

stages.


1.2 Compilation basis

1.2.1 National laws, regulations and technical specifications

    (1) "People's Republic of China Law on Environmental Protection" (1989.12.26);

    (2) "People's     Republic      of    China        Law     on      Environmental Impact

Assessment"(2003.9.1);

    (3) "People's Republic of China Law on Prevention and Control of Ambient

Noise Pollution" (1996.10.29);

    (4) "People's Republic of China Law on the Prevention and Treatment of Water

Pollution" (1996.5.15);

    (5) "People's Republic of China Law on Air Pollution Prevention" (2000.4.29);

    (6) "People's Republic of China Law on Solid Waste Pollution Prevention"



                                                                                       - 1 -

                  Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



(1995.10.30);

     (7) "People's Republic of China Law on Water and Soil Conservation"

(1996.6.29);

     (8) "People's Republic of China Law on Land Management" (1998.12.29);

     (9) "People's Republic of China Law on Flood Control" (1998.1.1);

     (10) "People's Republic of China Law on Fishery" (1986.7.1);

     (11) "People's Republic of China Law on Agriculture" (2003.3.1);

     (12) "People's Republic of China Law on Wild Animal Protection" (1988.11.8);

     (13) "People's Republic of China Law on Cultural Relics Protection"

(2002.10.28);

     (14) "People's Republic of China Law on Road" (1999.10.31);

     (15) "Implementing Regulations of People's Republic of China Law on Land

Management" (1999.1.1);

     (16) "Implementing Regulations of People's Republic of China Law on Water and

Soil Conservation" (1993.8.1);

     (17) "Environmental Protection Management Rules of Construction Project"(State

Council Ordinance No. 253, 1998.11.29);

     (18) "Environmental    Protection      Classification      Management     Register for

Construction Project" (2003.1.1);

     (19) "Regulations of Basic Farmland Protection"(State Council Ordinance No. 257,

1999.1.1);

     (20) "Environmental Protection Management Method of Road Construction

Project" (2003.6.1);

     (21) "Registar Namelist of Wildlife under Special State Protection" (1989.1.13);

     (22) "State Council Notice on Issuing National Ecological Environmental

Protection Guideline"(State Council ordinance [2000]No. 38, 2000.11.26);

     (23) "Urgent Notice on Forbidding Occupying Basic Farmland for Planting Issued

by State Council"(state [2004]No 1, 2004.3);

     (24) "Notice on Most Rigid Implementing Cultivated Land Protection in Road

Construction"(issued by the Ministry of Communications [2004]No. 164, 2004.4);

     (25) "Notice on Strengthening Environmental Impact Assessment for Construction

Project loaned by International Financial Organization"(NEPA[1993]No. 324,



- 2 -

                   Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



1993.6.21);

     (26) "Environmental Protection Management Regulations for Construction Project

in Jiangxi Province"(Jiangxi Provincial People's Congress Order No. 96, 2001.6);

     (27) "Environmental       Pollution        Prevention        Regulations    in Jiangxi

Province"(Jiangxi Provincial People's Congress Order No. 63, 2000.12).

1.2.2 Relevant technical specifications

      (1) "Technical Guidelines for Environmental Impact Assessment"(HJ/T2.1 

2.3-93, HJ/T2.4-1995, HJ/T19-1997, NEPA);

     (2) "Environmental Impact Assessment Specification for Road Construction

Project (tentative)"(JTJ005-96, MOC);

     (3) "Environmental Protection Design Specification of Road"(JTJ/T006-98,

MOC);

     (4) World Bank Safeguard Policies, including Operational Policies(OP), Best

Procedure(BP), Good practice(GP) and Operational Directives(OD). They are:

          Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP4.01);

          Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP4.12);

          Cultural Property (OP4.11);

          Natural Habitats (OP/BP4.04);

          Indigenous People (OD4.20);

          Forestry (OP/GP4.36);

          Safety of Dams (OP/BP4.37);

          Pest Management (OP4.09);

          Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP7.60);

          Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP7.50).

     Of the ten World Bank safeguard policies, Environmental Assessment

(OP/BP/GP4.01), Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP4.12), and Cultural Property

(OP4.11) are applied in the EIA;

      (5)  "Notice about Ambient Noise in Environmental Impact Assessment in

Construction Projects such as Highway, Railway (Including Light Railway)"

environment2003No 94, 2003.5.27.

1.2.3 Relevant documents in the project preliminary work

      (1) "Feasibility Study Report for World Bank Loan Jiangxi Road Project No. 3



                                                                                        - 3 -

                   Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



(Ruijin-Ganzhou Highway) in People's Republic of China" Jiangxi Provincial

Transportation Design Institute, Sept 2004.

      (2) Feasibility Study Report for World Bank Loan Jiangxi Road Project No. 3

(Ruijin-Ganzhou Section of Xiamen-Chengdu National Expressway) in People's

Republic of China Jiangxi Provincial Transportation Design Institute, May 2005.

      (3) Preliminary Design for World Bank Loan Jiangxi Road Project No. 3

(Ruijin-Ganzhou Highway) in People's Republic of China  Jiangxi Provincial

Transportation Design Institute, Sept 2005.

      (4) Preliminary Design for World Bank Loan Jiangxi Road Project No. 3

(Ruijin-Ganzhou Highway) in People's Republic of China  Jiangxi Provincial

Transportation Design Institute, Oct 2005.

      (5)Environmental Impact Assessment Report for World Bank Loan Jiangxi

Road Project No. 3 (Ruijin-Ganzhou Highway) in People's Republic of China(Third

version), Ministry of Communications Highway Research Institute, (Oct. 2005).

      (6) Cultural Relics Assessment Report for World Bank Loan Jiangxi Road

Project No. 3 (Ruijin-Ganzhou Highway) in People's Republic of China,Jiangxi

Provincial Archaeological Institute, Oct. 2005.

      (7) Water Conservation Scheme for World Bank Loan Jiangxi Road Project

No. 3 Ruijin-Ganzhou Section of Xiamen-Chengdu National Expressway in People's

Republic of China(for submission),Jiangxi Provincial Water Conservation Research

Institute ,Oct. 2005.




- 4 -

                   Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment




    2 Environmental impact assessment conclusions


2.1 Ecological environment

     (1) The current ecological environment in the assessment scope of the proposed

highway is good. The highway will take up a permanent land size of 12535.42mu. The

land occupation type includes forestland, paddy field, non-irrigated field, wasteland, etc.

The construction of the highway will cause certain agricultural economic losses, but

will not produce remarkable influence on the distribution pattern of the land and

vegetation.

     (2) Subgrade excavation and earth/stone filling of the proposed highway

construction will change the landform and topography of some areas to a certain extent.

But corresponding engineering protection measures taken during the design,

construction and operation stages of the highway can minimize such adverse effects on

vegetation, land utilization and farmland change.

     (3) Within the assessment scope of the proposed highway there is no natural

reserve, no rare and endangered animals and plants distributed there. The engineering

construction's impact on vegetation is mainly the cutting, rooting, burying and

trampling of trees, fruit trees, flowers and plants, bush and farmland crops in the

acquired lands during construction stage. Some small animals living there will be

threatened to some degree during the whole construction stage of the highway. The

above impact can be compensated for to a certain degree through the greening and

planting measures.

     (4) Within the assessment scope for this highway, the animal species are mostly

domestic animals, poultry and some common little wild animals that are few in

population and are not very demanding for living environment and are adaptable to

human activity. This road construction has not caused and changed their habitat

environment greatly, will not interfere their normal life, which can still continue

surviving in the areas along the route.

     (5) This project construction will disrupt and damage the original landform, land

and vegetation, the possibly created soil erosion will produce adverse impact on the

project construction, production and life along the route, as well as nearby ecological


                                                                                       - 5 -

                   Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



environment. But because the protection works will be designed, constructed and

accepted simultaneously with the main works of the project, the actually occurred water

and soil erosion will be far smaller than the forecasted value. The earth borrow pits,

waste banks, embankments, cutting slopes, service areas and construction sites are the

main places where soil erosion occurs.


2.2 Water environment

      (1)Current water quality monitoring on route section crossing rivers and

reservoirs indicates that: the three water quality indicators: pH value,

hypermanganate index and petroleum all can meet corresponding water quality

functional zoning requirement; the monitored results of suspended substance in

Gongjiang River, Ganjiang River, Xijiang River and Dongfeng reservoir can meet class

 criteria ofSurface Water Resource Quality Standard(SL63-94)(see table5.2.1-1);

the monitored results of suspended substance in Shangxi River cannot meet class 

criteria ofSurface Water Resource Quality Standard(SL63-94).

      (2) During the construction stage, because earth borrowing and filling may cause

silt of certain amount to enter into water bodies along the route, which will produce

certain influence to the water quality of some rivers, reservoirs, and canals. In building

subgrade at the two banks of river-crossing bridges, measures shall be taken to reduce

and avoid the impact on water body, which can be resumed after construction is

finished.

      (3) The bridge substructure construction is separated from road section

construction campsite, and the sanitary sewage emission of each campsite is only 3.2~

6.4t, discharged in a dispersed and temporary manner. Through setting up septic tank

and effective management, the influence of sanitary sewage during construction stage

can be acceptable. So the bridge substructure construction for the proposed highway

will only have a slight negative effect on water environment. In addition during

construction stage the construction waste oil will be collected, deposited and transported

to designated places for treatment, thus will not exert an unfavorable influence on the

surrounding environment either. The boring dregs of bridge construction are required to

be transported out of river district and be piled up, and corresponding environmental

protection measures shall be taken to prevent water body pollution.



- 6 -

                     Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment




      (4)The water pollution sources during operation stage are mainly sewage from

service areas, parking lots, tollgates and management stations. The sewage must be

treated to meet national class discharge standard before discharging. It is sugeested to

install small sewage disposal equipment of relevant capacity according to respective

sewage discharge volume and the sewage disposal equipment shall be well maintained

and managed so to ensure its normal operation, in this way the outlet water quality can

meet     classcriteria     of  Sewage            Comprehensive         Discharge   Standard 

(GB8978-1996)(see table5.2.1-1). After the sewage disposal equipment is finalized,

impact on local water environment by the sewage produced from the above service

facilities is not large.

      (5)During Operation stage, the pollutants carried by pavement runoff in a raining

period are mostly suspended substances and little amount of petroleum, mainly

occurring in the initial raining time. The flow and velocity of the river which the

proposed highway crosses are relatively stable, having greater dilution ability. Within

the assessment scope of downstream bridge site, there is no centralized type drinking

water intake. So, it can be concluded that bridge floor runoff's impact on water quality

is very small. In order to prevent river-crossing bridge section from occurring leakage

accident of hazardous articles resulting in water pollution, the 12 bridges crossing rivers

and reservoirs of this project are required to have guardrails strengthened and reinforced,

and the bridge floor runoff shall be collected and dealt with so that they will not enter

into water bodies directly.
      (6)This project shall not cause great adverse effect on farmland irrigation along

the route. Water conservancy projects such as river and channel that are intruded will be

reconstructed according to their existing capability.

      (7)In the next stage design unit shall optimize bridge and culvert design. Farmland

irrigation system and water supply/drainage facilities that are intruded and separated by

subgrade shall be restored.


2.3 Acoustic environment

     (1) Within the assessment scope there is no large-scale industrial and mining



                                                                                           - 7 -

                    Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



enterprises, the traffic noise of existing railways, national roads, provincial roads, and

county roads are the main sources of noise pollution, followed by the living and

production noise of residents in most Monitoring sites, the applicable noise criteria are

not exceeded. The major noise source is traffic noise on existing roads; the acoustic

quality along the route is basically good.

     (2) Construction noise will have a certain impact on the acoustic environmental

quality along the route; this kind of noise impact mainly appears in a range 130m from

construction site in daytime and 480m from construction site in nighttime.

     (3) In 100m beyond construction site and its construction/transportation roads

(detour roads) the acoustic impact is relatively small, but will still exert a relatively

great influence on people within 50m, especially construction noise at night will

influence their rest and sleep.

     (4) To carry out environmental monitoring on sensitive locations, to supervise

and promote good-mannered construction, to regulate construction, and to guarantee

residents' normal life and study.

     (5) According to class 1 standard limit(55dB in daytime and 45dB at nighttime)

in GB3096-93, the farthest standard-satisfying distances in daytime along the two sides

of the highway in short-term, mid-term and long-term stages are 126m, 155m and 187m

respectively from road center line; the farthest standard-satisfying distances in nighttime

along the two sides of the highway in short-term, mid-term and long-term stages are

123m, 223m and 310m respectively from road center line. According to class 2 standard

limit(60dB in daytime and 50dB at nighttime) in GB3096-93, the farthest

standard-satisfying distances in daytime along the two sides of the highway in

short-term, mid-term and long-term stages are 69m, 86m and 106m respectively from

road center line; the farthest standard-satisfying distances in nighttime along the two

sides of the highway in short-term, mid-term and long-term stages are 76m, 136m and

207m respectively from road center line. According to class 4 standard limit(70dB in

daytime and 55dB at nighttime) in GB3096-93, the farthest standard-satisfying

distances in daytime along the two sides of the highway in short-term, mid-term and

long-term stages are 20m, 24m and 30m respectively from road center line; the farthest

standard-satisfying distances in nighttime along the two sides of the highway in

short-term, mid-term and long-term stages are 46m, 78m and 119m respectively from



- 8 -

                   Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



road center line. It is suggested that planning department not to approve building

schools and hospitals that have high acoustic quality requirement within 310m from

both sides of the Highway, and building civilian houses within 207m.

      (6) Prediction and calculation of 67 sensitive locations identified in the

recommended scheme indicate that among them there are 5 sensitive locations

satisfying the noise standard and the other 62 sensitive locations have noise excess of

different degrees. The 5 sensitive locations satisfying the noise standard all locate in

interchange linking-up road.The predicted results of 3 sensitive locations in scheme

of Sanmen comparison section are exceeding standard. Among the sensitive locations

with noise excess, 43% sensitive locations exceed standard at night during the long-term

operation stage. Except xiabao sanatorium, the predicted results of 8 schools and 1

sanatorium along the route exceed standard during the short, mid and long-term

operation stage, of which the ambient background noise values in Datian primary school,

Huoxing primary school, Xijaing Township sanatorium, Sanmen middle school,

Wansong primary school, Tianxin primary school, Gangbian primary school and

Yeshan primary school have already exceeded class 1 criteria (55dB in daytime and

45dB at nighttime ) of Ambient Noise Standard in Urban Area (GB3096-93 ).

      (7) For the standard-exceeding sensitive locations of recommended scheme

during operation stage, these measures will be implemented: to build sound barrier, to

install soundproofing windows and to plant noise reduction greenbelt with an

investment of 25.725 million yuan.

      (8)   Among the noise excessive sensitive locations of this project, 53

sensitive locations are excessive during the mid and long-term operation

stage(2023). For those sensitive locations, 15 representative locations (schools and

residences) are chosen for noise monitoring during operation stage, and

corresponding noise reduction measures will be taken according to the monitored

results.


2.4 Ambient air

     (1) The areas the highway runs by are mostly rural areas with the outdoor

ambient air kept in natural condition. There is no large-scale pollution source in the

assessment scope along the route, and the existing pollutants are automobile tail gas,

pollutants produced by people's life and production, etc. But the emission is relatively


                                                                                     - 9 -

                    Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



small.

      (2) The NO2 and TSP average daily concentrations along the highway all comply

with class  air quality standard of GB3095-1996(see table 5.2.3-1), the monitored

results indicate that the environmental air quality is good along the route.

      (3) The main environmental problem is TSP and bituminous smoke pollution during

highway construction stage. Stabilizing soil mixing station shall be far away from sensitive

locations; attention shall be given to workers' labor protection. Construction roads and

material transportation roads shall be sprinkled with water and road surface shall be cleaned,

roadbuilding material transporting vehicles shall be covered with geotextile. Stock grounds

shall be far away from residential areas and shall be covered. In filling subgrade water shall

be sprinkled in time; the bituminous concrete mixing station shall be located 300m away

from leeward wind direction of sensitive locations.

      (4) The NO2 daily average concentrations in 20m from road center line of the

proposed highway can meet the class  limits(see table 5.2.3-1) for ambient air

quality standard during the short-term and mid-term stages; The NO2 peak hour

concentrations in 20m from road center line of the proposed highway can meet the class

2 limits for ambient air quality standard during the long-term operation stages; The class

 standard-satisfying distance of NO2 daily average concentration is 2060m from

road center line.

      (5) It can be seen from the forecasting results that this project's impact on

ambient air quality is slight. There are a total of 67 sensitive locations along the route,

analyses and predicting indicate that when the sensitive locations are in leeward wind

direction during the long-term operation stage, standard exceeding may probably occur

in 3 sensitive locations.


2.5 Social environment

      (1) Construction of the proposed highway will exert a positive influence in

promoting social and economic development, in promoting rational adjustment of

industrial sectors in areas along the route, in fostering the social and economic

development and tourist resource development in areas along the route and in the whole

Jiangxi Province, in improving the local investment environment, and in promoting

structural adjustment of three major industries.



- 10 -

                    Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



     (2) This project will permanently take up lands with a total size of 12535.42mu,

of which3934.73 mu for cultivated lands. Land allocation and use value transformation

could mitigate land occupation's impact on agricultural economy.

     (3) To mitigate impact, it is schemed to do good removal and resettlement work,

to conscientiously enforce local government's removal and resettlement policy. Because

reasonable number of overpasses and passageways will be set up, impact on life

convenience of residents along the route could mitigate.

     (4) Operation of the proposed highway will alleviate the traffic pressure imposing

on original existing roads, will improve traffic environment, and will reduce traffic

accidents.

     (5) The construction unit will strengthen publicity on historical relic protection,

protective measures shall be made available to underground historical relic being found

during construction, which shall be traced and monitored.


2.6 Pollution risk of transportation

     (1) Though accident probability of hazardous cargo transportation is extremely

small, but once the accident takes place, the consequence will be very serious. The

construction department will formulate emergency plan, shall enhance training and

management and shall strengthen emergency handling ability so to reduce pollution risk

to a minimum.
     (2) In order to prevent river- and reservoir-crossing bridge sections from

occurring accident of hazardous articles vehicles resulting in water pollution, the 12

bridges crossing water bodies of this project will have guardrails strengthened and

reinforced to prevent the vehicles from falling into the water, and to design closed and

perfect bridge floor drainage system which could lead the runoff into the sedimenting

tanks at the two ends of bridge so that the leaked hazardous articles on the bridge floor

will not enter into rivers along with the runoff.

     (3) The 7 tunnels of this project, especially the 3 long tunnels, all have been

designed for safety purpose, and are installed with relatively perfect ventilating

system, power supply and illumination system, fire-fighting system, traffic control

system, urgent telephone system, closed-circuit TV system, fire warning system and

central control system, whose normal operation and use can effectively prevent



                                                                                    - 11 -

                     Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



accidents from occurring or can ensure quick and effective rescue in case of accident.


2.7 Alternative alignments

      After route comparison in the feasibility study stage preliminary design stage , the

recommended alignment basically is the best alignment in environmental protection. In

order to do good environmental protection work for this project conscientiously, Jiangxi

Provincial Transportation Design Institute will pay attention to solving the following

problems at next stage:

       In high-fill and deep-cut sections, Jiangxi Provincial Transportation Design

Institute will further study the design plan for slope protection.

       At the design of next stage, attention will be paid to the environmental

protection and water and soil conservation of the highway itself and the earth borrow

and waste banks.

       It will be conscientiously implemented simultaneous design between the

environmental protection project and main project works.


2.8 Profit/loss analysis of environmental economy

       National economic evaluation and financial evaluation of this project indicate

that it has certain anti-risk ability.

       The environmental protection investment needed by the proposed highway is about

73.39696 million yuan(including the water conservation investment), accounting for

1.27% of the total investment for the project.


2.9 Environmental protection, management and monitoring plans

      (1) The environmental protection management during construction and operation

stage for this project is executed by Jiangxi Provincial Communication Department

planning office, Jiangxi Provincial Communication Department World Bank loan

project office, and Jiangxi Provincial Expressway Administration.

      (2) The monitoring cost for this project during construction stage is 600,000 yuan,

and the monitoring cost during operation stage is 840,000 yuan.

      (3) The construction unit has already established a removal and resettlement

office and a coordinating group for design, resettlement and environmental protection,



- 12 -

                     Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



responsible for the environmental management and removal/resettlement of this project.

     (4) Detailed environmental management plan (EMP) has already been formulated

so as to finalize the environmental mitigation measures and implementation of

environmental monitoring plan.


2.10 Public participation

     (1) Construction of the proposed highway is a rare good chance to the areas along

the route, especially to the development of county towns where the route passes. Local

government and residents along the route spare no effort to support this highway to pass

in front of their "own door".

     (2) In order to avoid and mitigate various kinds of negative impacts possibly

produced by the highway construction, related departments and units will: in designing

route and construction, to make every effort to take as little cultivated land and good

farmland as possible; to well protect the existing irrigation and water conservancy

facilities; to take highway afforestation and engineering protection measures in highway

section apt to soil erosion so to prevent soil erosion; to safeguard the legitimate interests

of residents involved in land acquisition and removal; to make public the relevant

compensation policy and standard, and to distribute compensation money to the

grassroot organizations in order to be used in local production and resident life in due

time.

     (3) Because people along the project, especially those who may be subject to land

occupation, removal and resettlement do not still know compensation policies about

land occupation, removal and resettlement in road construction, it will be implemented

that during the land occupation, removal and resettlement for this project, such policies

and compensation standard will be publicized to concerned people along the route

through local government so as to make this project familiar to and welcomed by the

people.

     (4) For possible environmental problems brought out by this project, the

environmental assessment unit and design unit have already put forward corresponding

environmental protection measures such as removal, sound barrier, installing sound

insulating window, and environmental management in construction stage, etc.

     (5) At next stage various kinds of media such as broadcast, TV, newspaper, etc.

will be utilized to release information to the public, to offer unobstructed access to


                                                                                        - 13 -

                    Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



environmental file inquiry and environmental complaint telephone.

      (6) Cooperating with environmental protection department to solve and deal with

public appeal and complaint in time.

      (7) According to various environmental protection measures put forward in the

assessment report, Jiangxi Provincial Expressway Administration will carry out follow-up

investigations in all period during the design, construction and operation stage.


2.11 Comprehensive assessment conclusion

      In sum, the development, construction and operation of this project will produce

certain adverse impacts on the ecological environment, resident's life, school teaching

along the route, but so long as the mitigation measures proposed by this report are

conscientiously implemented, such adverse impacts produced can be effectively

controlled and can be reduced to a minimum acceptable to the environment. The route

alignment is basically rational; the social and economic benefits of the project are

remarkable. This assessment concludes that in terms of environmental protection,

construction of this proposed highway is feasible.




- 14 -

                    Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment




   3 Mitigation measures for Environmental impacts



3.1 Mitigation measures for ecological environmental impact

3.1.1 Design stage

       (1) To further optimize and adjust the alignment, to reduce occupation of

cultivated lands, to balance cut/fill volumes and to reduce waste volume and the number

of earth borrow and waste banks.

       (2) Site selection for construction campsite shall avoid farmland or shall occupy

as little farmland as possible. To rationally arrange construction plan, to reduce the time

for temporary land occupation.

       (3) When the highway passes through high mountains and natural forestlands, it

shall mainly in the form of tunnel and bridge so to reduce the mileage of cut/fill works

volume, and thus reducing destruction on vegetation and plant as much as possible. The

present design alignment basically adopts tunnels and bridges to pass the natural

forestlands.

       (4) To design subgrade water drainage and protection works, such as intercepting

trench, side ditch, facing wall, slope protection, retaining wall, crib protection etc.,

which can not only stabilize the subgrade but also can prevent and control soil erosion?

       (5) The original appearance of rivers and valleys shall be maintained as much as

possible so to reduce river course realignment, to reduce the clearance of grass and trees

in the rivers and valleys.

       (6) The guardrail in bridges will choose material with high strength.

       (7)   Selection of earth borrow and waste banks: earth borrow and waste banks

are forbidden to locate in basic farmland protection zone, rather they will be preferably

located in secondary vegetation land with grass and wastelands, thus not directly

influencing the primitive vegetation. In addition, in rainy season the intensity of

rainstorm is relatively large and duration is relatively long, so construction shall choose

dry season during construction stage, thus helpful to construction. Before rainy season

comes, good preparations must be taken to prevent soil erosion, concretely by piling

waste earth neatly, excavating drainage ditches and building retaining walls, so as to


                                                                                       - 15 -

                   Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



reduce soil erosion's destruction to natural vegetation and to maintain local rivers in

their normal conditions too. Waste earth and slag banks shall not be located in river

course and along rivers so to avoid water pollution and to avoid mud-rock flow

destroying downstream river.

      (8) For earth borrow pits and waste (dreg) banks, environmental protection

design shall be carried out, and the following principles shall be followed to formulate

tunnel waste dreg utilization plan.

       Used as filling materials for subgrade outside tunnel and for bridge

embankment, while the transport distance is not too far;

       Used to fill hillside wasteland to turn into construction site so that they are

unlikely to be destroyed by flood when mountain torrent comes and endanger

downstream farmlands;

       When the tunnel portal area is all good farmland and there is wasteland in

distance, they shall be delivered to the waste land in long-distance;

       When near the tunnel site there is all cultivated land and waste slags must take

up farmland, the topsoil shall be first shoveled away, after the project is finished, the

original topsoil shall be covered on waste banks so as to restore cultivation.

      (9) To rationally arrange construction season and time: to rationally arrange

construction in dry season so as to reduce destruction on river and water quality;

blasting and construction are forbidden at night in order to reduce impact on local wild

animals.

      (10) Propagation (wildlife and environmental protection propagation, and

manufacturing propagation boards) and setting-up of supervisory organization before

construction.

      (11) The afforestation design of the highway shall be in pace with the engineering

design of the main project, priority shall be given to adopting local arbor, shrub, and

grass in the design in order to restore and compensate for the vegetation.

3.1.2 Construction stage

      (1) Education for environmental protection shall be strengthened to construction

workers so that they will observe national and regional laws and relevant regulations so

as to protect natural resources, not to injure wild animals, not to cut down trees

arbitrarily, and to consciously protect various kinds of animals, plant and natural



- 16 -

                   Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



landscape in natural forestlands along the route.

     (2) The tunnel (entrance and exit) will be the place needing special monitoring

during construction. Because in road construction the tunnel is always a controlled

project with long construction time, large volume of waste earthwork disposal, thus

during tunnel construction, it is required to strictly control the piling of materials and

the collecting/disposing of waste earthwork.

     (3) Construction of pier in bridge construction will inevitably exert an influence on

the vegetation, so it is required to strictly control the size of vegetation occupation and

impact on peripheral vegetation. Relevant national laws and regulations shall be strictly

followed to go through the formalities in acquiring forestland and vegetation, casual tree

cutting and surface vegetation removing are forbidden.

     (4) Construction time in the natural forestlands shall be shortened as much as

possible, and construction at night is forbidden.

     (5) Life garbage and sewage produced from construction campsites shall be

collected and disposed.

     (6) For temporary land occupation such as detour roads and working sheds, their

destruction on vegetation shall be reduced to a minimum. If detour roads pass through

wooded section with big trees, the detour roads shall pass around it, the trees around

working sheds shall be kept to a maximum extent. The establishment of detour road

shall not destroy natural landscape, shall not move excessive earthwork, and shall not

cause collapse.

     (7) Attention shall be paid to protection of river course during construction,

construction shall be mainly in dry season, before rainy season comes it is required to

dredge the river course and to excavate drainage canals in construction site, and to

guarantee unobstructed river flow and clean water quality in the river. As far as drinking

water is concerned, it is required to solve the water problem for residents before the

project construction begins, and to consider the influence on construction stage and in

the future.

     (8) Various kinds of construction behaviors such as earth borrowing and waste

disposal shall be carried out strictly according to the designing requirement, ecological

restoration shall be timely undertaken in earth borrow pits and waste banks. When

excavating the acquired cultivated land, the topsoil(30cm) shall be kept in order for use



                                                                                       - 17 -

                    Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



in reclaiming and compensating cultivated land.

      (9) Construction vehicles shall run on temporary roads, shall not run into

farmlands and forestlands.

      (10) To reduce the quantity and size of construction site: Construction shall be

carried out in designed construction site, earth borrow pits and waste banks shall not be

enlarged at will so to reduce excavation surface. If construction can't be conducted at

once, don't enter the construction site too early.

      (11) Each protection measure shall be implemented along with the main project in

order to prevent pavement runoff in rainy season from directly eroding slope and

leading to soil erosion.

      (12) Management of solid waste during construction stage

       Solid wastes shall not be thrown or spilled over along the route during

transportation.

       Greasy dirt of construction machinery shall be treated collectively, solid

wastes with greasy dirt can't be thrown casually on ground, rather they shall be collected

and disposed.

       Construction campsite shall set up septic tank and dustbin, the contractor shall

removed the garbage and clear up the septic tank on time.

       The boring mud from bridge construction shall be transported outside river

district and piled in favorable terrain place. The waste mud piling shall be protected

mainly by blocking and arresting; after the place is chosen, mud arresting dam shall be

first built in downstream place of waste mud, drainage ditches shall be built in

surrounding place according to water catchment, which connect with the original

drainage system, then waste mud can be piled up. After waste mud piling, vegetation

shall be restored as much as possible.

       The planning and the operational procedure of constructing shall be followed

to strictly control and to reduce the remaining supplies. In case of remaining materials,

they shall be preserved well in an orderly manner, and be kept properly as for use in

repairing rural roads or buildings in surrounding area.

       Facilities, equipment and places that collect, store, transport and handle the

solid wastes shall be strengthened in management and maintenance so as to guarantee

their normal running and use.



- 18 -

                    Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



3.1.3 Operation stage

     (1) According to road afforestation design requirement, it shall be done to

continue the tree planting and grassing in slopes, median separators, interchanges and

service areas of the proposed highway in order to achieve the purposes of restoring

vegetation, protecting subgrade and reducing soil erosion.

     (2) For slopes, earth borrow pits and waste banks, detour roads, tunnel mouths

where their vegetation is damaged, measures will be taken as soon as possible so to

restore the vegetation.

     (3) In restoring vegetation, only local indigenous plants can be used, any exotic

plant species are forbidden.

     (4) It is to further perfect each engineering measure, planting measure and land

reclamation measure for water and soil conservation according to the designing

requirements, to scientifically and rationally implement a three-dimensional plantation

pattern combining grass, flower, bush and arbor. Especially for earth slopes,

afforestation can be carried out in later construction stage in order to protect subgrade

slope stability and reduce soil erosion.

     (5) Overflow culverts shall be cleared silt in time in order to ensure unobstructed

irrigate river system.

     (6) Carrying out maintenance for protection works and afforestation project.

     (7) Solid waste management during operation stage

      Through formulating and propagating regulations, it is forbidden that

passengers casually throw out garbage such as beverage bags, easy-open cans, etc. on

the highway so as to ensure traffic safety and sanitation/hygiene along both sides of the

highway.

      The sewage and garbage in serving areas and management stations will be

cleared periodically, delivered to and disposed of collectively in garbage disposal

grounds along the highway, casual throwing-away is forbidden.


3.2 Mitigation measures for water environmental impact

3.2.1 Design stage

     (1) To optimize and perfect the small bridge and culvert design; for each canal and

pond occupied or cut off by the subgrade, remedial measures shall be taken by




                                                                                     - 19 -

                    Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



relocating them under the prerequisite of not compressing the water-discharge

cross-section of original river and canal and not influencing the function of original

canal and ditch. It shall also guarantee that new opening precedes relocating.

      (2) In the next design stage, full emphasis shall be paid to protect surface water

body. During bridge substructure design, related regulations shall be followed to

explicitly stipulate that the wastes such as boring slags shall not be discharged into

surface water body directly; local water conservation and environmental protection

departments and other concerned departments shall be consulted to reasonably

locate the positions of borrow pits, boring slags shall be used as much as possible in

paving subgrade so to prevent soil erosion from polluting farmland and river

system.

      (3) When the route aligns along Gongjiang River terrace or bank slope, the

designing shall consider river sluicing and bank slope undercutting's damage on

subgrade, necessary measures shall be taken to strengthen the protection works for

the subgrade close to river and to guarantee subgrade stability. Generally the road

shoulder or toe of slope shall set up submersible retaining wall to prevent the river

water undercut the toe of slope; the subgrade filler uses sand and cobble, the side

slope of submersible retaining wall adopts solid slope protection.

      (4) During the engineering design stage, underground water distribution shall

be verified; corresponding measures shall be taken to prevent the tunnel seepage

causing the underground water level change.

      (5) The 12 service areas, parking lots, maintenance divisions and tollgate

stations along the route shall be installed with small sewage disposal facilities

according to their functions, number of employees and mobile population so as to

discharge the sewage up to standard and ensure that the water quality of treated

sewage can meet class criteria of GB8978-1996  Sewage Comprehensive

Discharge Standard(see table 5.2.1-1 ). The sewage treatment procedure is shown

in Fig. 3.2.1-1.




- 20 -

                      Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment




                        Life sewage

                                                                       Primary            Contact oxidation
                                                                       sedimenting

 Catering                    Oil-separa                   Regulating

                             ting


                           Water outlet           Disinfection             Secondary
                                                                           sedimenting


                    Fig.3.2.1-1 Sewagetreatmentprocedure diagraminservicearea



    (6) In order to prevent vehicles, especially hazardous articles vehicle from out of

control and falling into rivers and reservoirs along the route causing water pollution, the

12 bridges(see table 3.2.1-1)crossing water bodies are required to have their guardrails

strengthened and reinforced.

                 Table 3.2.1-1 Bridges overcrossing water bodies of this project
 No           Bridge name            Overcrossed water body                  Stake No          Length (m)
  1       Jiubao River bridge             Jiubao River                       K32+470               327
  2      Xijiang River bridge            Xijiang River                       K39+150               187
  3       Shangba Gongjiang
                                        Gongjiang River                      K63+025
             River viaduct                                                                        1407

  4         Miaobei viaduct              Shangxi River                       K94+315               487
  5     Gaotan Gongjiang River
                                        Gongjiang River                      K100+424
                 bridge                                                                            497

  6     Jiaolin Gongjiang River
                                        Gongjiang River                      K114+940
           super-large bridge                                                                     1087

  7       Chenwu Gongjiang
                                        Gongjiang River                      K119+220
        River super-large bridge                                                                  1367

  8         Ganjiang River
                                         Ganjiang River                      K135+491
           super-large bridge                                                                     1337

  9       Dongfeng reservoir
                                       Dongfeng reservoir                    K51+710
                 bridge                                                                            807

  10    Jiuling reservoir bridge        Jiuling reservoir                    K66+735               307
  11       Maqimian viaduct            Maqimian reservoir                    K85+593               367
  12      Niugutang reservoir
                                       Niugutang reservoir                   K115+680
                viaduct                                                                            127


    (7) In order to prevent water pollution on rivers and reservoirs in case of

occurring    hazardous         articles  vehicle      accident,         the    12    bridges(see   Table

3.2.1-1)crossing water bodies are required to set up facilities for collecting bridge floor

runoff (setting up sedimenting tanks at the two ends of bridge) so to prevent the runoff

entering directly into water bodies. The capacity of drainage pipe and sedimenting tank


                                                                                                      - 21 -

                   Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



shall be designed according to the runoff volume produced from one rainfall's

slicing(15 minutes)with the raining strength being the largest rainfall in 5 years in

that region plus 50%.

3.2.2 Construction stage

      (1) Prevention and control measures for construction waste water pollution

       The project contract will clearly specify provisions for preventing sprinkle and

leakage during transportation of roadbuilding materials (for example asphalt, fuel oil,

chemical, pulverized coalash, cement, sand, and stone), their piling locations shall not

be near water body or breeding pond in order to avoid being washed by rain water into

water body, causing pollution.

       Deleterious construction materials such as asphalt, fuel oils, and chemical

substances shall be covered when piled in yard so to reduce pollution caused by rain

wash. Within 100m from river bank, it is prohibited to set up stock grounds (materials

yard), waste bank, and construction campsite.

       Construction waste water cannot be discharged into rivers and reservoirs

directly. The construction waste water shall be circulated and recycled as much as

possible so as to effectively control the construction waste water's pollution on local

water quality due to its discharge with exceeded standard.

      (2) Control measures for oil-containing wastewater

      Oil-containing wastewater shall be controlled by adopting controlled construction

process and clean production plan.

       Advanced equipment and machinery shall be selected as much as possible so to

effectively reduce the quantity of oil leakage, bleeding, drop and spillage, and

machinery repair times, thus reducing the production quantity of oil-containing

wastewater.

       During construction process involving inevitable oil leakage, bleeding, drop

and spillage, solid oil-absorption materials shall be used as many as possible (for

example cotton yarn, saw dust and so on) to collect the oil and transform them into solid

substance thus avoiding producing excessive oil-containing waste water. For oil dirts

that are seeped into the ground, they shall be scraped promptly for collection and

sealing, and shall be hauled to garbage ground for processing.

       Repair and maintenance of machinery, equipment and transportation vehicles


- 22 -

                     Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



shall be conducted in the repair zone of various road section as much as possible to

facilitate collection of oil-containing waste; in case that concentrated repair cannot be

made, because the production quantity of oil-containing wastewater is generally smaller
than 0.5m3/d, then all can be absorbed by solid oil-absorption materials for collection,

sealing and delivery to outside.

       In construction site and machinery repair ground, horizontal flow precipitation

pool shall be set up, the oil-containing waste water is collected by the precipitation pool,

after simple treatments such as acid and alkali neutralization, precipitation, oil

separating and dreg removing, the concentrations of oil and other pollutants will reduce.

After construction, the precipitation pool will be buried by earth.

       Collected oil-soaking waste shall be packaged, sealed and hauled to outside

along with other solid wastes produced from construction site, the destination of hauling

shall select towns with garbage burying or treatment ability.

     (3) Control measures for life sewage

       Dining and laundry of construction workers will be managed in a unified way

such as concentrated dining and laundry in fixed place and time so to reduce life sewage

production volume as much as possible. During laundry, the detergent amount shall be

controlled, hot water or other means can be substituted for so to reduce the detergent

content in sewage.

       Septic tanks will be set up in construction campsites so to collect excrement

and dining/laundry sewage, the excrement can be used for fertilizing the soil, the

dining/laundry sewage can be used in agricultural irrigation after being precipitated.

After construction, septic tanks will be buried by earth. The capacity and model design

for septic tanks shall follow the specifications of the national construction standard

design 02S701Brick Septic Tank and 03S702Steel Reinforced Concrete Septic

Tank.

       Domestic will be loaded into garbage can, which will be cleaned and hauled

out periodically, or a garbage pit can be set up to composting them so to be used in

fertilizing the soil. After construction, the garbage pit will be buried by earth, if surface

vegetation is damaged, vegetation shall be restored.

     (4) Protection measures for bridge construction




                                                                                         - 23 -

                   Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment




       For bridge foundation and pile locating in river course and reservoir, its boring

dregs from foundation excavation shall not be discharged into water body directly, the

boring dregs must be transported to nearby planned waste bank. During construction,

the bridge construction site shall set up simple sedimentation pool in which the boring

dregs and mud are precipitated and dried, then hauled to the waste bank.

       For other bridges crossing canals, the bridge pile foundation construction shall

be conducted in dry season as much as possible, and shall avoid construction in flood

season and high water period, the earth and stone works excavated from foundation and

pile construction shall be used as much as possible, those that cannot be used will be

hauled to nearby waste bank.

       During        bridge construction, maintenance and repair of construction

machinery shall be well conducted so to prevent the fuel oil from leaking and polluting

the water body.

      (5) Protection measures for tunnel construction

      Tunnel construction will produce large volume of waste water, the main pollutants

are suspended substance, remained blasting explosive, petroleum and so on. The

following techniques shall be adopted for this project so to effectively control water

pollution question during tunnel construction period.


       Tunnel drainage
                                      Grid                Oil separating        Evaporation
         Construction                                          pool
          drainage

      (6) Protection measures for road section construction along Gongjiang River

      In road section along Gongjiang River, the subgrade edge will be pitched by

woven bags packed with earth for temporary arresting and retaining so to prevent the

earth and stone from falling into water body. The woven bag's cross-sectional form is

1m1m (high *width), the filling earth can use surface topsoil, and after construction

the topsoil can be used in afforestation.

3.2.3 Operation stage

      (1) Sewage disposal equipment in service area, parking lot and tollgate station

shall be repaired and maintained periodically to ensure that the treated sewage can reach

class  standard of GB8978-1996 "Sewage Comprehensive Discharge Standard".



- 24 -

                    Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



    (2) Water quality monitoring plan shall be carried out(table 4.2-2), supplementary

environmental protection measures shall be taken according to the water quality

monitored results.

    (3) Vehicles that leak or overload bulk goods are forbidden to run on the highway

in order to prevent the bulky goods from spillover and causing water pollution along the

route.

     (4) The pollution risk prevention measures for hazardous articles vehicle

accident occurring in river-crossing bridge section during operation stage are referred to

section 3.6.


3.3 Mitigation measures for acoustic environmental impact

3.3.1 Design stage

    (1) Stone quarries, earth borrow pits, waste banks and mixing stations shall be

located far away from residential areas and shall be in 300m away from leeward wind

direction. The material transportation route shall be desiged rationally to keep distant

from residential areas so to avoid impact of wind-borne flying dust and noise on

residents.

    (2) It will be done to further optimize and adjust design plan of some local route

through dodging and relocating etc. so to make the route keeping away from

acoustically sensitive locations.

    (3) If constrained by local conditions, the route alignment cannot dodge or

feasibly impossible to dodge in terms of technical and economic justification,

noise-reduction measures shall be considered for the influenced sensitive locations in

acoustic environment from road design, at the same time the funds for implementing

these measures shall be budgeted.

    (4) Environmental protection measures that need engineering design proposed in

the environmental impact report shall be designed for environmental protection

simultaneously during the preliminary stage.

    (5) According to prediction, different sensitive locations shall adopt different

noise-reduction measures such as removal and installing noise-reduction windows, etc.

which will be included in the design and bidding documents.

3.3.2 Construction stage

    (1) To strengthen construction management. When the construction site lies near


                                                                                     - 25 -

                    Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



schools, the construction unit is required to understand the schooling schedule,

strong-noise construction machinery is forbidden to operate at schooling time during the

day; in construction site 150m within which there is dense residential area, strong-noise

construction machinery is forbidden to operate at night (22:00 - 06:00). If required by

production techniques, successive construction must proceed at night, the construction

unit must obtain approval from local people's government above county-level or

responsible authority, and shall also do good propaganda work in advance and shall

utilize portable or temporary sound barrier as noise-reduction measure.

      (2) Construction unit must select construction machines and transportation

vehicle complying with relevant national standards, shall select preferably low-noise

construction machinery and techniques, for example substituting hydraulic tool for

atmospheric pressure tool, substituting low-noise drived cast-in-place piling for impact

or vibration type piling. Fixed mechanical equipment with large vibration shall be

installed with vibration-reducing base; at the same time attention will be given to their

maintenance and correct operation so as to maintain the noise of roadbuilding

machinery at the lowest level. Construction machinery with strong noise shall adopt

provisional noise-isolating measures. Material stock grounds and mixing stations shall

be located 300m away from acoustically sensitive locations.

      (3) Noise of roadbuilding machinery is characterized by abruptness, irregularity,

discontinuity and high strength, etc. According to investigation, noise at the

construction site sometimes goes beyond class 4 noise standard, which can be generally

alleviated by changing construction method. For example strong-noise operation can be

carried out during daytime (06:00 - 22:00), or adjust the operation time of construction

machinery to minimize the influence of construction noise. Noises produced from

material transport, shocking and people's shouting during construction period can be

alleviated through contractor's good-mannered construction activity and effective

management.

      (4) Detour roads shall be far away from schools, hospitals, and residences, and

shall not cross acoustic sensitive locations. When there are large residences 50m within

both sides of detour road, transportation of building materials is forbidden in this detour

road at night.

      (5) In order to supervise and protect residents' production and life, and school



- 26 -

                   Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



environment, acoustic environmental monitoring will be carried out in construction

stage. The supervising engineer is required to sampling-monitor construction site within

100m of which there are larger residential areas or schools during construction stage.

Based on monitored results, corresponding noise prevention measures shall be adopted,

for instance: limit working time, change transportation route, adopt temporary sound

barrier, etc.

    (6) The work health standard shall be followed to control construction

workers' working hours, personnel protective measures shall be provided to

mechanical operators and concerned personnel, such as wearing ear plug and

helmet, and so on.

    (7) Transporting roadbuilding materials in the National Road 323 and other

roads may deteriorate the acoustic environmental quality in sensitive locations

along the route; in order to accurately and timely grasp the acoustic environmental

quality in sensitive locations along the construction road (including detours), during

construction stage, the supervising engineer is required to monitor the noise in

sensitive locations along two sides of G323: Shanshupai Dalingkeng,Yuyang.

According to the monitored results, if necessary the material hauling route can be

considered to change, if unable to avert, temporary sound barriers can be built or some

economic compensation can be made with agreement from local residents.

3.3.3 Operation stage

    (1) It is suggested that planning department not to approve building schools and

hospitals that have high acoustic quality demand within 310m from both sides of the

highway, and building houses within 207m, otherwise the acoustic environment

protective measures will be solved by the construction units themselves.

    (2) Acoustic environmental protection measures for sensitive locations with

predicted noise excess.See Table 3.3.3-1~Table 3.3.3-3 for the acoustic environmental

protection measures of sensitive locations. Before the measures are implemented,

opinions shall be solicited from concerned households, if disagreed with the

recommended measures, other alternative measures will be considered.




                                                                                    - 27 -

                                                      Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



      Table3.3.3-1 Acousticenvironmental protectionmeasuresofsensitivelocationsof theproposedhighway(Implemented inShort-termoperationstage(2009))
        Name of sensitive                                                                                                              Noise-reduction    Investment
No                             Noise excess and environmental protection measure comparison                 Recommended measure
           locations                                                                                                                        effect         estimate
                           Noise excess during short/mid/long-term operation stages 0.36.6dB
                                                                                                                                      Require acoustic
                           This section is a viaduct section with height difference of 10m                         Location of sound
      Yanba primary school                                                                            Sound                             design, noise
  1                        Sound barrierto build a sound barrier 140m long in the north side                      barrier K34+420                        350,000 yuan
           K34+500                                                                                    barrier                         reduction by more
                           of the highway                                                                              K34+560
                                                                                                                                          than 6dB
                           EP removalto remove the school with a cost of about 500000 yuan
                           Noise excess during short/mid/long-term operation stages 0.16.9dB
                           The village is small in size, distributed along a mountain foot in a strip
                                                                                                                                      Require acoustic
                           form                                                                                    Location of sound
           Chazixia                                                                                   Sound                             design, noise
  2                         Sound barrierto build a sound barrier 220m long in the north side                     barrier K34+620                        550,000 yuan
      K34+560K34+820                                                                                  barrier                         reduction by more
                           of the highway with a cost about 550000 yuan                                                K34+840
                                                                                                                                          than 6dB
                           EP removalto remove 17 households near the highway, the original
                           houses change their use function, with cost of 450,000 yuan.
                           Noise excess by 0.2dB in day time in long-term operation stage,0.6                      Location of sound  Require acoustic
           Shanshupai      3.2dB in short/mid/long-term operation stage                               Sound                             design, noise    1.45 million
  3                                                                                                                     barrier
      K48+900K49+460       Sound barrierto build a sound barrier 580m long in the north side of       barrier    K48+900K49+480       reduction by more      yuan
                           the highway                                                                                                    than 6dB
                           Noise excess at night during short/mid/long-term operation stages                                          Require acoustic
                                                                                                                   Location of sound
         Shanbei village   0.32.2dB                                                                   Sound                             design, noise
  4                                                                                                                     barrier                          800,000 yuan
      K49+580K49+740       Sound barrierto build a sound barrier 160m long each in the south          barrier                         reduction by more
                                                                                                                 K49+580K49+740
                           and north sides of the highway                                                                                 than 6dB
                           Noise excess during short/mid/long-term operation stages 1.74.5dB,                      Location of sound
        Tianxin primary    the background value is already excessive                                                    barrier       Require acoustic
             school         Sound barrierto build a sound barrier 120m long in the south side         Sound          K132+460           design, noise
  5                                                                                                                                                      300,000 yuan
          K132+500         of the highway with a cost about 300000 yuan                               barrier         K132+580        reduction by more
           K132+570         EP removalto remove Tianxin primary school with cost of                                                       than 6dB
                           300,000 yuan.
          Gangbianpai      Gangbianpai  Noise excess at night during short/mid/long-term
          K142+290         operation stages 1.17.3dB                                                               Location of sound  Require acoustic
                                                                                                                        barrier         design, noise
  6        K142+430        Gangbian primary schoolNoise excess by 2.63.2dB in day time time Sound                                                        425,000 yuan
                           in short/mid/long-term operation stage, 0.7  3.8dB at night in barrier                    K142+280         reduction by more
        Gangbian primary   mid/long-term operation stage, background value in day time already                        K142+450            than 6dB
       school K142+340     excessive




- 28 -

                                                   Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment




    Name of sensitive                                                                                                            Noise-reduction     Investment
No                          Noise excess and environmental protection measure comparison             Recommended measure
        locations                                                                                                                     effect          estimate
       K142+400          The school is within the village, no boarding at night,there are
                         households between the school and the highway
                         Sound barrierto build a sound barrier 170m long in the south side of
                         the highway
        Cangxia          CangxiaNoise excess by 0.3dB in day time in long-term operation                    Location of sound
      K147+230           stage, 36.1dB at night in mid/long-term operation stage                                 barrier
       K147+350          Yeshan primary schoolNoise excess by 3.35dB in day time, 1.5                         K147+150          Require acoustic
                         9dB at night in short/mid/long-term operation stage, background value Sound           K147+360           design, noise
7                        in day time already excessive                                                                                              525,000 yuan
                                                                                               barrier                          reduction by more
   Yeshan primary school The school is within the village, there are households between the                                         than 6dB
   K147+200K147+250      school and the highway
                         Sound barrierto build a sound barrier 210m long in the north side of
                         the highway


   Table3.3.3-2 Acousticenvironmental protectionmeasuresofsensitivelocationsof theproposedhighway(Implemented inmid-termoperationstage(2015))
    Name of sensitive                                                                                                             Noise-reduction    Investment
No                          Noise excess and environmental protection measure comparison             Recommended measure
        locations                                                                                                                      effect          estimate
                         Noise excess during mid/long-term operation stages 0.75.7dB
                         Most households are 100m away from the highway, so not good to
                         build sound barrier                                                                                                        150,000 yuan
        Zaozixia                                                                              Soundproofing                      Noise reduction by
1                        Periodic monitoring will be taken during the mid-term operation                                                            (estimated at
   K34+560K34+820                                                                             windows                             more than 15dB
                         stage, impact scope will be determined according to the monitored                                                          10 households)
                         results, and the impacted households will be installed with
                         soundproofing windows
                         Noise excess during mid/long-term operation stages 0.66.4dB
                         Periodic monitoring will be taken during the short-term operation
                         stage, measures scope will be taken according to the monitored                                           Require acoustic
                                                                                                              Location of sound
     Qiangong village    results                                                                                                   design, noise
2                                                                                             Sound barrier  barrier K39+700                        625,000 yuan
   K39+640K39+960         Sound barrierto build a sound barrier 250m long in the south                                           reduction by more
                                                                                                                  K39+950
                         side of the highway with a cost about 625000 yuan                                                           than 6dB
                          EP removalto remove 20 households, the original houses
                         change their use function, with cost of 600,000 yuan.
3      Tangtouxia        Noise excess during mid/long-term operation stages 0.16dB            Soundproofing                      Noise reduction by 180,000 yuan



                                                                                                                                                            - 29 -

                                                       Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment




       Name of sensitive                                                                                                               Noise-reduction     Investment
No                            Noise excess and environmental protection measure comparison                 Recommended measure
           locations                                                                                                                        effect           estimate
      K42+600K42+800        Periodic monitoring will be taken during the short-term operation      windows                             more than 15dB     (estimated at
                            stage, impact scope will be determined according to the monitored                                                             12 households)
                            results, and the impacted households will be installed with
                            soundproofing windows
                            Noise excess during short/mid/long-term operation stages 0.5
                            2.1dB, the ambient noise added value is 0.8dB in day and 5.1dB at                                         To select broadleaf
                            night, the main reason of predicted noise excess is due to the                                              and evergreen
                                                                                                   To plant noise
      Datian primary school excessive background value                                                                                 trees for dense
 4                                                                                                 reduction green                                        100,000 yuan
           K42+550          The school is 180m away from the highway, no boarding at night                                             planting, which
                                                                                                   belt
                            To plant noise reduction green belt in the side of school close to the                                     can reduce noise
                            highway, to plant 10m wide arbor-shrub-grass composite protection                                              by 1dB
                            greenbelt with a cost of about 100000 yuan
                            Noise excess during mid/long-term operation stages 0.16dB
                            Periodic monitoring will be taken during the short-term operation                                                             150,000 yuan
             Hetang                                                                                Soundproofing                      Noise reduction by
 5                          stage, impact scope will be determined according to the monitored                                                             (estimated at
      K42+600K42+700                                                                               windows                             more than 15dB
                            results, and the impacted households will be installed with                                                                   10 households)
                            soundproofing windows
                            Noise excess during short/mid/long-term operation stages 1.1
                            3.5dB, the ambient noise added value is 0.8dB in day and 6.8dB at
                                                                                                                                      To select broadleaf
                            night, the main reason of predicted noise excess is due to the
                                                                                                                                        and evergreen
       Huoxing primary      excessive background value                                             To plant noise
                                                                                                                                       trees for dense
 6           school         The school is located in a hill foot, the highway passes by cutting    reduction green                                        100,000 yuan
                                                                                                                                       planting, which
           K43+900          the hill top, no boarding at night in the school                       belt
                                                                                                                                       can reduce noise
                            To plant noise reduction green belt in the side of school close to the
                                                                                                                                           by 1dB
                            highway, to plant 10m wide arbor-shrub-grass composite protection
                            greenbelt with a cost of about 100000 yuan
                            Noise excess at night during mid/long-term operation stages 1.5                         Location of sound
                            5.8dB                                                                                        barrier
                            Periodic monitoring will be taken during the short-term operation                         South side       Require acoustic
           Youliaobei                                                                                                                   design, noise
 7    K76+435K76+825        stage, measures will be taken according to the monitored results       Sound barrier       K76+540        reduction by more   825,000 yuan
                             Sound barrierto build a sound barrier 210m long in the south                              K76+750
                            side of the highway and to build a sound barrier 120m long in the                         North side          than 6dB

                            north side of the highway with cost of 825000 yuan                                         K76+560



- 30 -

                                                 Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment




    Name of sensitive                                                                                                          Noise-reduction    Investment
No                       Noise excess and environmental protection measure comparison              Recommended measure
       locations                                                                                                                    effect          estimate
                        EP removalto remove 26 scattered households near the                                   K76+680
                       highway, the original houses change their use function, with cost of
                       1,300,000 yuan.
                       Noise excess during mid/long-term operation stages 0.15.3dB
                       Periodic monitoring will be taken during the short-term operation
                       stage, measures will be taken according to the monitored results
                        to install soundproofing windows for influenced households                                                               375,000 yuan
       Hongtang                                                                             Soundproofing                     Noise reduction by
8                      with a cost of about 375000 yuan                                                                                          (estimated at
   K99+170K99+560                                                                           windows                            more than 15dB
                        EP removalto remove 25 households with cost of 1.25 million                                                              25 households)
                       yuan.
                       to build a sound barrier 190m long in the north side of the
                       highway with a cost of 475000 yuan
                       Noise excess during short/mid/long-term operation stages 0.1
                       7.2dB
                                                                                                                                                 225,000 yuan
        Xinwu          Periodic monitoring will be taken during the short-term operation    Soundproofing                     Noise reduction by
9                                                                                                                                                (estimated at
   K99+610K99+910      stage, impact scope will be determined according to the monitored    windows                            more than 15dB
                                                                                                                                                 15 households)
                       results, and the impacted households will be installed with
                       soundproofing windows
                       Noise excess during mid/long-term operation stages 0.35.6dB
                       Scattered households, few are close to the highway
                       Periodic monitoring will be taken during the short-term operation
       Pengwu          stage, measures will be taken according to the monitored results                                                          225,000 yuan
                                                                                            Soundproofing                     Noise reduction by
10   K101+980          Soundproofing windows: to install soundproofing windows for                                                               (estimated at
                                                                                            windows                            more than 15dB
      K102+520         households with excessive noise impact, with a cost of about                                                              15 households)
                       225000 yuan
                       EP removalto remove 15 households, the original houses change
                       their use function, with cost of 750,000 yuan.
                       Noise excess at night during mid/long-term operation stages 0.2
                                                                                                            Location of sound  Require acoustic
       Shuiduan        5.3dB
                                                                                                                 barrier        design, noise
11   K102+880          Periodic monitoring will be taken during the short-term operation    Sound barrier                                        600,000 yuan
                                                                                                              K102+860        reduction by more
      K103+080         stage, measures will be taken according to the monitored results
                                                                                                               K103+100           than 6dB
                       Sound barrierto build a sound barrier 240m long in the north side




                                                                                                                                                         - 31 -

                                                    Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment




       Name of sensitive                                                                                                          Noise-reduction     Investment
No                          Noise excess and environmental protection measure comparison             Recommended measure
          locations                                                                                                                    effect           estimate
                          of the highway
                          Noise excess by 0.8dB in day time in long-term operation stage,
                          0.84.7dB at night in mid/long-term operation stage Close to
                          national road G323, seriously influenced by the old road, the                        Location of sound  Require acoustic
         Xiamaoping       proposed highway overcrosses the old road by a viaduct, scattered                         barrier        design, noise
12      K103+490          households                                                         Sound barrier                                           850,000 yuan
                                                                                                                K103+600         reduction by more
         K103+840         Periodic monitoring will be taken during the short-term operation                      K103+940            than 6dB
                          stage, measures will be taken according to the monitored results
                          Sound barrierto build a sound barrier 340m long in the north side
                          of the highway
                                                                                                                                 To select broadleaf
                          Noise excess at night during long-term operation stage 0.8dB
                                                                                                                                   and evergreen
         Zhaijiaoxia      Viaduct section, near Xiashan tunnel mouth                         To plant noise
                                                                                                                                  trees for dense
13      K104+940          To plant noise reduction green belt 100m long, to plant 10m wide   reduction green                                         100,000 yuan
                                                                                                                                  planting, which
         K105+050         arbor-shrub-grass composite protection greenbelt in the side of    belt
                                                                                                                                  can reduce noise
                          village close to the highway
                                                                                                                                      by 1dB
                          Noise excess at night during mid/long-term operation stages 0.9
                          5dB
           Xiaba          Viaduct section                                                                                                            225,000 yuan
                                                                                             Soundproofing                       Noise reduction by
14      K114+530          Periodic monitoring will be taken during the short-term operation                                                          (estimated at
                                                                                             windows                              more than 15dB
         K114+850         stage, impact scope will be determined according to the monitored                                                          15 households)
                          results, and the impacted households will be installed with
                          soundproofing windows
                          Noise excess during mid/long-term operation stages 0.25.9dB
                          A viaduct section with scattered households
          Pingzigao                                                                                                                                  300,000 yuan
                          Periodic monitoring will be taken during the short-term operation  Soundproofing                       Noise reduction by
15      K119+600                                                                                                                                     (estimated at
                          stage, impact scope will be determined according to the monitored  windows                              more than 15dB
         K119+860                                                                                                                                    20 households)
                          results, and the impacted households will be installed with
                          soundproofing windows
                          Noise excess at night during mid/long-term operation stages 1.5
                                                                                                                                                     300,000 yuan
        Xiaomenkou        5.5dB                                                              Soundproofing                       Noise reduction by
16                                                                                                                                                   (estimated at
       K119+580K120       A viaduct section with scattered households                        windows                              more than 15dB
                                                                                                                                                     20 households)
                          Periodic monitoring will be taken during the mid-term operation



- 32 -

                                                    Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment




     Name of sensitive                                                                                                            Noise-reduction    Investment
No                        Noise excess and environmental protection measure comparison              Recommended measure
        locations                                                                                                                      effect         estimate
                        stage, impact scope will be determined according to the monitored
                        results, and the impacted households will be installed with
                        soundproofing windows
                        Noise excess at night during mid/long-term operation stages 1.7
                        4.7dB                                                                                  Location of sound  Require acoustic
   Laohupai K124+650 Periodic monitoring will be taken during the short-term operation                              barrier        design, noise
17                                                                                           Sound barrier                                          250,000 yuan
        K124+880        stage, measures will be taken according to the monitored results                        K124+700         reduction by more
                        Sound barrierto build a sound barrier 100m long in the south side                        K124+800            than 6dB
                        of the highway
                        Noise excess during short/mid/long-term operation stages 0.8
                        6.1dB, the background value is already excessive
                        The school is located in a hill foot, and is 110m away from the
     Wansong primary                                                                                                                                120,000 yuan
                        highway, the highway passes by cutting the hill top                  Soundproofing                       Noise reduction by
18  school K126+710                                                                                                                                 (estimated at
                        Periodic monitoring will be taken during the short-term operation    windows                              more than 15dB
        K126+740                                                                                                                                    40 windows)
                        stage, measures will be taken according to the monitored results
                         Soundproofing windowscost of 120,000 yuan
                         EP removal cost of 300,000 yuan.
                        Noise excess at night during mid/long-term operation stages 1.3
                        4.6dB
                        the village is not large in size, distributed in a hill foot                           Location of sound  Require acoustic
          Zouwu         Periodic monitoring will be taken during the short-term operation                           barrier        design, noise
19     K132+260         stage, measures will be taken according to the monitored results     Sound barrier                                          425,000 yuan
                                                                                                                K132+280         reduction by more
        K132+400         Sound barrierto build a sound barrier 170m long in the north                            K132+450            than 6dB
                        side of the highway with a cost about 425000 yuan
                         EP removalto remove influenced households with cost of
                        750,000 yuan.
                        Noise excess at night during mid/long-term operation stages 1.5
                        5.7dB
                        Households are distributed along a hill foot, the highway passes by                    Location of sound  Require acoustic
       Shizishuxia
                        cutting the hill top, most households are sheltered by hill slope                           barrier        design, noise
20     K132+340                                                                              Sound barrier      K132+100         reduction by more  900,000 yuan
        K132+670        Periodic monitoring will be taken during the short-term operation
                        stage, measures will be taken according to the monitored results                         K132+460            than 6dB
                         Sound barrierto build a sound barrier 360m long in the south
                        side of the highway with a cost about 225000 yuan



                                                                                                                                                            - 33 -

                                                    Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment




       Name of sensitive                                                                                                          Noise-reduction    Investment
No                          Noise excess and environmental protection measure comparison             Recommended measure
           locations                                                                                                                   effect          estimate
                           EP removalto remove influenced households with cost of
                          500,000 yuan.
                                                                                                               Location of sound
                          Noise excess at night during mid/long-term operation stages 2.1
                                                                                                                    barrier
                          5.1dB
                                                                                                                South side        Require acoustic
           Paishang       Periodic monitoring will be taken during the short-term operation
                                                                                                                K141+240           design, noise
21       K141+200         stage, measures will be taken according to the monitored results    Sound barrier                                         450,000 yuan
                                                                                                                 K141+300        reduction by more
          K141+400        Sound barrierto build a sound barrier 80m long in the south side of
                                                                                                                North side           than 6dB
                          the highway and to build a sound barrier 100m long in the north
                                                                                                                K141+260
                          side of the highway
                                                                                                                 K141+360
                          Noise excess during mid/long-term operation stages 0.96.7dB
                          Centered households, relatively far away from the highway (90m)
       Shanbiantoushang                                                                                                                             225,000 yuan
                          Periodic monitoring will be taken during the short-term operation   Soundproofing                      Noise reduction by
22       K141+570                                                                                                                                   (estimated at
                          stage, impact scope will be determined according to the monitored   windows                             more than 15dB
          K141+800                                                                                                                                  15 households)
                          results, and the impacted households will be installed with
                          soundproofing windows
                          Noise excess during short/mid/long-term operation stages 0.9
                          8.7dB
          Tengshuwo       Most households are 120m away from the highway                                                                            150,000 yuan
                                                                                              Soundproofing                      Noise reduction by
23       K142+310         Periodic monitoring will be taken during the short-term operation                                                         (estimated at
                                                                                              windows                             more than 15dB
          K142+450        stage, impact scope will be determined according to the monitored                                                         10 households)
                          results, and the impacted households will be installed with
                          soundproofing windows
                          Noise excess during mid/long-term operation stages 0.15.8dB                          Location of sound
                                                                                                                                  Require acoustic
       Yongquangangshang  Periodic monitoring will be taken during the short-term operation                         barrier
                                                                                                                                   design, noise
24       K144+340         stage, measures will be taken according to the monitored results    Sound barrier     K144+380                            300,000 yuan
                                                                                                                                 reduction by more
          K144+640        Sound barrierto build a sound barrier 120m long in the north side                      K144+500
                                                                                                                                     than 6dB
                          of the highway




- 34 -

                                                   Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



   Table3.3.3-3 Acousticenvironmental protectionmeasuresofsensitivelocationsof theproposedhighway(Implemented inlong-termoperation stage(2023))
    Name of sensitive                                                                                                           Noise-reduction     Investment
No                        Noise excess and environmental protection measure comparison            Recommended measure
        locations                                                                                                                    effect           estimate
                      Noise excess at night during long-term operation stage 2.9dB
                      Sensitive location is relatively far from the highway (120m)
                                                                                                                                                   300,000 yuan
     Taoziyuan (I)    Periodic monitoring will be taken during the mid-term operation       Soundproofing                      Noise reduction by
1                                                                                                                                                 (estimated at 20
   K31+100K31+380     stage, impact scope will be determined according to the monitored     windows                             more than 15dB
                                                                                                                                                    households)
                      results, and the impacted households will be installed with
                      soundproofing windows.
     Taoziyuan (II)   Taoziyuan (II)Noise excess at night during long-term operation stage
   K31+370K31+480     0.22dB
                      Yangwu (I)Noise excess at night during long-term operation stage                       Location of sound Require acoustic
                      2dB                                                                                         barrier        design, noise
2                     Periodic monitoring will be taken during the mid-term operation       Sound barrier                                          875,000 yuan
      Yangwu (I)                                                                                               K31+300         reduction by more
                      stage, impact scope will be determined according to the monitored
   K31+570K31+820                                                                                               K31+650            than 6dB
                      results
                       Sound barrierto build a sound barrier 350m long in the south side of
                       the highway
                      Noise excess at night during long-term operation stage 3.3dB
                      Households are distributed scarcely along the highway, about half of
                      the households are 100m away from the highway and the village is
                      relatively large in size
                                                                                                                                                   450,000 yuan
      Yangwu (II)      Periodic monitoring will be taken during the short/mid-term          Soundproofing                      Noise reduction by
3                                                                                                                                                 (estimated at 30
   K31+860K32+320     operation stage, impact scope will be determined according to the     windows                             more than 15dB
                                                                                                                                                    households)
                      monitored results, and the impacted households will be installed with
                      soundproofing windows with a cost of about 450000 yuan
                       Sound barrierto build a sound barrier 300m long in the north side
                      of the highway with a cost about 750000 yuan
                      Noise excess at night during long-term operation stage 2.7dB
                      The village is relatively large in size, difficult to remove; most
                      households are 100m away from the highway, so not good to build
                                                                                                                                                   360,000 yuan
         Loubei       sound barrier                                                         Soundproofing                      Noise reduction by
4                                                                                                                                                 (estimated at 24
   K33+700K34+300     Periodic monitoring will be taken during the mid-term operation       windows                             more than 15dB
                                                                                                                                                    households)
                      stage, impact scope will be determined according to the monitored
                      results, and the impacted households will be installed with
                      soundproofing windows



                                                                                                                                                            - 35 -

                                                     Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment




       Name of sensitive                                                                                                            Noise-reduction      Investment
No                          Noise excess and environmental protection measure comparison                Recommended measure
          locations                                                                                                                      effect            estimate
                         Noise excess at night during long-term operation stage 2.2dB
                         Households are distributed sparsely in a hill foot, the highway passes
                         on the top of hill with height difference of 12m                                                                               300,000 yuan
           Lingxia                                                                               Soundproofing                     Noise reduction by
 5                       Periodic monitoring will be taken during the mid-term operation                                                               (estimated at 20
      K34+800K35+350                                                                             windows                            more than 15dB
                         stage, impact scope will be determined according to the monitored                                                               households)
                         results, and the impacted households will be installed with
                         soundproofing windows
                         Noise excess at night during long-term operation stage 2.1dB
                         Scattered households, the village is relatively far away from the
                         highway (140m)
                                                                                                                                   To select broadleaf
                         Periodic monitoring will be taken during the mid-term operation
                                                                                                 To plant noise                    and evergreen trees
          Citangxia      stage, measures will be taken according to the monitored results
 6                                                                                               reduction green                   for dense planting,  200,000 yuan
      K39+220K39+640     to install soundproofing windows for influenced households with a
                                                                                                 belt                              which can reduce
                         cost of about 330000 yuan
                                                                                                                                     noise by 2dB
                         To plant noise reduction green belt in the side of village close to the
                         highway, to plant 20m wide arbor-shrub-grass composite protection
                         greenbelt with a cost of 200000 yuan
                         Noise excess at night during long-term operation stage 0.43.5dB
                         Households are scattered
                                                                                                                                                        225,000 yuan
         Fengshuxia      Periodic monitoring will be taken during the mid-term operation         Soundproofing                     Noise reduction by
 7                                                                                                                                                     (estimated at 15
      K39+380K39+640     stage, measures will be taken according to the monitored results        windows                            more than 15dB
                                                                                                                                                         households)
                          to install soundproofing windows with a cost of about 225000 yuan
                         to remove influenced households with a cost of about 750000 yuan
                         Noise excess at night during long-term operation stage 1.32.3dB                         Location of sound  Require acoustic
         Xinxiaowu       Periodic monitoring will be taken during the mid-term operation                              barrier        design, noise
 8    K39+740K40+050     stage, measures will be taken according to the monitored results        Sound barrier     K39+7020        reduction by more    875,000 yuan
                         Sound barrierto build a sound barrier 350m long in the north side of                       K40+050            than 6dB
                         the highway
                         Noise excess at night during long-term operation stage 2.1dB
                                                                                                                 Location of sound  Require acoustic
                         Periodic monitoring will be taken during the mid-term operation
          Jiuquping                                                                                                   barrier        design, noise
 9                       stage, measures scope will be taken according to the monitored results  Sound barrier                                          425,000 yuan
      K40+140K40+260                                                                                                K40+100        reduction by more
                         Sound barrierto build a sound barrier 170m long in the north side of
                                                                                                                    K40+280            than 6dB
                         the highway
10     Changjiangqiao    Noise excess at night during long-term operation stage 0.11.9dB         Sound barrier   Location of sound  Require acoustic    800,000 yuan



- 36 -

                                                   Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment




    Name of sensitive                                                                                                           Noise-reduction   Investment
No                       Noise excess and environmental protection measure comparison             Recommended measure
       locations                                                                                                                     effect        estimate
      Laozhaixia      In the east side of the village there is the old road G323                                  barrier        design, noise
   K40+360K41+100     Periodic monitoring will be taken during the mid-term operation                          South side      reduction by more
                      stage, measures will be taken according to the monitored results                         K40+400             than 6dB
                      Sound barrierto build a sound barrier 150m long in the south side of                      K40+550
                      the highway and to build a sound barrier 170m long in the north side                     North side
                      of the highway                                                                           K40+350
                                                                                                                K40+520
                      Noise excess during long-term operation stage 0.54.6dB
                      This is a viaduct section, the west of the village is a railway                        Location of sound Require acoustic
     Wangjiangwan     Periodic monitoring will be taken during the mid-term operation                             barrier        design, noise
11                                                                                          Sound barrier                                        500,000 yuan
   K41+650K41+800     stage, measures will be taken according to the monitored results                         K41+620         reduction by more
                      Sound barrierto build a sound barrier 200m long in the north side of                      K41+820            than 6dB
                      the highway
                      Noise excess at night during long-term operation stage 1.9dB
                      Periodic monitoring will be taken during the mid-term operation                        Location of sound Require acoustic
      Jiaojiangtou    stage, measures will be taken according to the monitored results                            barrier        design, noise
12                                                                                          Sound barrier                                        500,000 yuan
   K42+300K42+540     Sound barrierto build a sound barrier 200m long in the south side                        K42+300         reduction by more
                      of the highway with a cost about 500000 yuan                                              K42+500            than 6dB
                      to remove influenced households with a cost of about 750000 yuan
                      Noise excess at night during long-term operation stage 2.93.8dB                        Location of sound Require acoustic
        Qiuqiu        Periodic monitoring will be taken during the mid-term operation                             barrier        design, noise
13 K42+900K43+100     stage, measures will be taken according to the monitored results      Sound barrier      K42+900         reduction by more 500,000 yuan
                      Sound barrierto build a sound barrier 200m long in the south side of                      K43+100            than 6dB
                      the highway
                                                                                                             Location of sound
                      Noise excess at night during long-term operation stage 3.4dB                                barrier
                      Periodic monitoring will be taken during the mid-term operation                                          Require acoustic
        Yuyang                                                                                                 K54+700           design, noise
14 K54+700K55+220     stage, measures will be taken according to the monitored results      Sound barrier                                        1 million yuan
                      Sound barrierto build a sound barrier 400m long in the north side of                      K54+960        reduction by more

                      the highway                                                                              K55+100             than 6dB
                                                                                                                K55+240
                      Noise excess at night during long-term operation stage 4dB                             Location of sound Require acoustic
       Heliaoxia      Periodic monitoring will be taken during the mid-term operation                             barrier        design, noise    1.1 million
15 K56+400K57+060     stage, measures will be taken according to the monitored results      Sound barrier      South side      reduction by more     yuan
                      Sound barrierto build a sound barrier 320m long in the south side of                     K56+400             than 6dB




                                                                                                                                                           - 37 -

                                                     Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment




       Name of sensitive                                                                                                            Noise-reduction      Investment
No                          Noise excess and environmental protection measure comparison                Recommended measure
          locations                                                                                                                      effect            estimate
                         the highway and to build a sound barrier 120m long in the north side                       K56+720
                         of the highway                                                                            North side
                                                                                                                    K56+620
                                                                                                                    K56+740
                         Noise excess at night during long-term operation stage 3.5dB
                         Viaduct section, the village is relatively far away from the highway                                      To select broadleaf
                         (110m)                                                                  To plant noise                    and evergreen trees
           Shijing
16                         Soundproofing windows                                                 reduction green                   for dense planting,  100,000 yuan
      K71+950K72+330
                          To plant noise reduction green belt 200m long, to plant 10m wide       belt                              which can reduce
                         arbor-shrub-grass composite protection greenbelt in the side of village                                     noise by 1dB
                         close to the highway
                          Noise excess at night during long-term operation stage 3.5dB
                         Periodic monitoring will be taken during the mid-term operation                                                                150,000 yuan
         Shangduan                                                                               Soundproofing                     Noise reduction by
17                       stage, impact scope will be determined according to the monitored                                                             (estimated at 10
      K73+550K73+800                                                                             windows                            more than 15dB
                         results, and the impacted households will be installed with                                                                     households)
                         soundproofing windows
                         Noise excess at night during long-term operation stage 0.86.1dB
                          Periodic monitoring will be taken during the mid-term operation                                                               150,000 yuan
         Huangtian                                                                               Soundproofing                     Noise reduction by
18                       stage, impact scope will be determined according to the monitored                                                             (estimated at 10
       K74K74+280                                                                                windows                            more than 15dB
                         results, and the impacted households will be installed with                                                                     households)
                         soundproofing windows
                                                                                                                 Location of sound
                          Noise excess at night during long-term operation stage 33.2dB                               barrier
                         Periodic monitoring will be taken during the mid-term operation                           South side       Require acoustic
         Shihuiling      stage, measures will be taken according to the monitored results                           K75+120          design, noise      1. 30 million
19                                                                                               Sound barrier
      K75+050K75+570      Sound barrierto build a sound barrier 280m long in the south side of                      K75+400        reduction by more        yuan
                         the highway and to build a sound barrier 240m long in the north side                      North side          than 6dB
                         of the highway                                                                             K75+320
                                                                                                                    K75+560
                          Noise excess during long-term operation stage 0.45.6dB
                          Periodic monitoring will be taken during the mid-term operation                                                               120,000 yuan
            Tudi                                                                                 Soundproofing                     Noise reduction by
20                       stage, impact scope will be determined according to the monitored                                                             (estimated at 8
      K76+175K76+400                                                                             windows                            more than 15dB
                         results, and the impacted households will be installed with                                                                     households)
                         soundproofing windows



- 38 -

                                                  Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment




    Name of sensitive                                                                                                          Noise-reduction      Investment
No                       Noise excess and environmental protection measure comparison              Recommended measure
       locations                                                                                                                    effect            estimate
                       Noise excess at night during long-term operation stage 3.44.4dB
                                                                                                            Location of sound
                       Periodic monitoring will be taken during the mid-term operation
                                                                                                                 barrier
                      stage, measures will be taken according to the monitored results
                                                                                                              South side       Require acoustic
                       Sound barrierto build a sound barrier 80m long in the south side
    Tangmianshang                                                                                              K76+900          design, noise
21                    of the highway and to build a sound barrier 210m long in the north    Sound barrier                                          725,000 yuan
   K76+445K77+160                                                                                              K76+980        reduction by more
                      side of the highway with cost of 725000 yuan
                                                                                                              North side          than 6dB
                       EP removalto remove 25 scattered households near the highway,
                                                                                                               K76+760
                      the original houses change their use function, with cost of 750,000
                                                                                                               K76+970
                      yuan.
                       Noise excess at night during long-term operation stage 3.6dB
                       Periodic monitoring will be taken during the mid-term operation                                        To select broadleaf
                      stage, measures will be taken according to the monitored results      To plant noise                    and evergreen trees
        Daping
22                     to install soundproofing windows for influenced households           reduction green                   for dense planting,  200,000 yuan
   K77+680K77+900
                       To plant noise reduction green belt, to plant 20m wide               belt                              which can reduce
                      arbor-shrub-grass composite protection greenbelt in the south side of                                     noise by 2dB
                      the highway
                       Noise excess at night during long-term operation stage 0.94.6dB
                                                                                                            Location of sound  Require acoustic
                       Periodic monitoring will be taken during the mid-term operation
       Hantang                                                                                                   barrier        design, noise
23                    stage, measures will be taken according to the monitored results      Sound barrier                                          300,000 yuan
   K78+350K78+480                                                                                              K78+340        reduction by more
                       Sound barrierto build a sound barrier 120m long in the north side of
                                                                                                               K78+460            than 6dB
                      the highway
                       Noise excess at night during long-term operation stage 4dB
                       Periodic monitoring will be taken during the mid-term operation                                                             270,000 yuan
        Chixu                                                                               Soundproofing                     Noise reduction by
24                    stage, impact scope will be determined according to the monitored                                                           (estimated at 18
   K79+850K80+130                                                                           windows                            more than 15dB
                      results, and the impacted households will be installed with                                                                   households)
                      soundproofing windows
                      Noise excess at night during long-term operation stage 3.5dB
      Tianzigang      Periodic monitoring will be taken during the mid-term operation                                                              225,000 yuan
                                                                                            Soundproofing                     Noise reduction by
25   K102+700         stage, impact scope will be determined according to the monitored                                                           (estimated at 15
                                                                                            windows                            more than 15dB
      K102+910        results, and the impacted households will be installed with                                                                   households)
                      soundproofing windows
       Maoping         Noise excess at night during long-term operation stage 3.4dB                         Location of sound  Require acoustic
26   K103+790          Viaduct section                                                      Sound barrier        barrier        design, noise      750,000 yuan
      K104+300         Periodic monitoring will be taken during the mid-term operation                        K103+940        reduction by more



                                                                                                                                                            - 39 -

                                                    Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment




       Name of sensitive                                                                                                         Noise-reduction   Investment
No                          Noise excess and environmental protection measure comparison             Recommended measure
         locations                                                                                                                    effect        estimate
                         stage, measures will be taken according to the monitored results                        K104+240           than 6dB
                          Sound barrierto build a sound barrier 300m long in the north side of
                         the highway
                         Noise excess at night during long-term operation stages3dB                           Location of sound Require acoustic
         Hechangbei      Periodic monitoring will be taken during the mid-term operation                           barrier        design, noise
27      K132+680         stage, measures will be taken according to the monitored results      Sound barrier                                      425,000 yuan
                                                                                                                K132+700        reduction by more
         K132+850        Sound barrierto build a sound barrier 170m long in the north side of                    K132+870           than 6dB
                         the highway




- 40 -

                   Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment




     (3) Implementing noise monitoring plan and according to the monitored

results to determine whether to adopt supplementary acoustic environmental

protection measures. The predicted results of most sensitive locations are excessive

during the mid and long-term operation stages, so it is necessary to conduct

periodic monitoring on these sensitive locations after the highway is put into

operation, and corresponding noise reduction measures will be taken according to the

monitored results. 15 representative sensitive locations are chosen for periodic

monitoring during the operation stage, see Table 9.1.3-1 for details.

     (4) Strengthening traffic administration can effectively control traffic noise

pollution. Vehicle of bad performance are restrained from running on the highway.

When passing around towns and schools or other sensitive locations, the vehicles are

forbidden to horn. The highway pavement shall be maintained regularly to guarantee

evenness.


3.4 Mitigation measures for ambient air impact

3.4.1 Design stage

    (1) Stone quarries, earth borrow pits, waste banks and mixing stations shall be

located far away from residential areas and shall be in 300m away from leeward wind

direction.

    (2) It is required to design the material transportation route rationally to distant

from residential areas so to avoid influences of wind-borne flying dust and noise on

residents.

3.4.2 Construction stage

    (1) Stock grounds, stabilizing soil and cement concrete mixing stations of

highway Construction shall be located in such places within 300m leeward of which

there are no residences, hospitals and schools. Mixing machines shall be well sealed and

shall be installed with shock absorber and dust remover. Operators shall be provided

with labor protection devices such as eyeshield and mask.

    (2) Roadbuilding materials that are easy to spill shall adopt wet method to

transport, covered by tarpaulin to prevent flying dust pollution on atmosphere.

    (3) Roads for transporting materials, construction site especially stabilizing soil

mixing station, shall have necessary water sprinkling to prevent wind-borne flying dust.



                                                                                    - 41 -

                   Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



Water shall be sprinkled in dry weather, twice every day in the morning and afternoon

respectively.

      (4) In filled subgrade, water shall be sprinkled correspondingly according to

material compaction requirement. The contractor must also often sprinkle water after

material compaction so to ensure that materials do not fly dust.

      (5) Construction roads, construction sites and mixing stations shall be sprinkled

by water to prevent dust flying.

      (6) Management on materials which are apt to cause flying dust must be

strengthened, which shall not be piled up in the open ground. The stock grounds shall be

at least 300m away from sensitive locations such as school and village.

3.4.3 Operation stage

      (1) To strengthen road management and pavement maintenance, to keep the road

in good operation state, to reduce traffic congestion and jam.

      (2) To strengthen management of vehicles transporting bulky materials such as

coal, cement, grit material and simple packaged chemical fertilizer and agricultural

chemical, etc. and geotextile shall be covered when transporting the above-mentioned

articles. These vehicles shall be inspected in the entrance of highway.

      (3) To design afforestation and beautification project on highway boundary limits,

to choose tree species that can purify the air, and to do good implementation of

afforestation project and maintenance.

      (4) To maintain tunnel air blowers and to guarantee good ventilation in the tunnel.

      (5) To enforce ambient air monitoring plan, and to take supplementary

environmental protection measures according to the monitored results.


3.5 Mitigation measures for social environmental impact

3.5.1 Design stage

      (1) In route selection, interchange setting-up, environmental protection, removal

and resettlement, consultations have been made with along-the-route governments,

related departments, NGOs, villagers' committees, collective units and even individuals

for soliciting their suggestions and for gaining public support on this project

implementation.

      (2) During the preliminary design stage and construction drawing design stage,

suggestions from local governments at all levels along the route are further solicited


- 42 -

                   Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



with attention paid to public participation. On the basis of full justification of reclaiming

earth borrow and waste banks, their locations, quantity and borrowing and disposal

methods shall be determined rationally.

    (3) It will be done to further optimize alignment design, to determine rational

earth borrowing and waste volumes by earth/stone works balance calculation, and to

optimize afforestation design so as to make it in close harmony with peripheral natural

and human landscape and to highlight local characteristics.

    (4) The contract signed between the owner and contractors will define contractor's

responsibility and obligation to protecting the environment. The contractor shall open

complaint telephone for environmental protection in construction site. For complaints

the owner will contact local environmental protection department in time in order to

deal with various kinds of environmental disputes in time.

    (5) It is to entrust Jiangxi Provincial Cultural Relic Bureau and Jiangxi

Provincial Cultural Relic Institute to carry out cultural relic reconnaissance along

the route and to submit cultural relic investigation report. For details see the

cultural relic investigation report of this project.

    (6) The design for this project has always emphasized a principle of averting

villages and small towns with least farmland occupation and removal. Immigrant

resettlement offices are established in each level, the "Resettlement Action Plan"

(RAP) was formulated, and independent supervising organization was hired. For

concrete contents, see the "Resettlement Action Plan" (RAP).

3.5.2 Construction stage

    (1) Effective means shall be used to further publicize the importance of this

project and relevant policies and regulations concerning removal and resettlement issues

so that local people support the construction of this project.

    (2) Rely on local governments to do good job in land acquisition. Compensation

fee shall be paid rationally so to safeguard the people's legitimate interests and to

guarantee that the number of households whose lands are to be acquired and who are to

be removed and resettled is a minimum, and to guarantee that their living standard is not

lower than the level before this project construction.

    (3) Septic tank and dustbin will set up in construction campsite and construction

unit is responsible for removing and clearing the garbage and septic tank on time to



                                                                                         - 43 -

                    Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



prevent disease from breakout; epidemic prevention shall be well carried out by

regularly killing harmful organisms such as the mouse, fly, mosquito, cockroach, etc.

      (4) Contractors must provide workers with helmets and earplugs according to

labor protection regulations, and must check workers' health condition;

construction sites must be staffed with professional medical worker to provide

medical service to the workers, and the medical worker must educate the

construction workers on hygiene knowledge periodically. The drinking water in

construction site shall meet the national sanitary standard for drinking water. Personnel

engaged in catering must obtain the hygiene license, and shall receive physical

examination regularly;

      (5) Construction sign boards shall be hung at construction site, indicating the

project name, project responsible person name, builder's license and complaint

telephone number, etc., so as to receive supervision from various circles of society and

the local people; Every bid section will assign at least 1 ful l-time trained environmental

protection personnel to be responsible for environmental management.

      (6) In order to restore the natural landscape along the route and to highlight the

view sight of modernized highway, when the proposed project is completed, all

unnecessary and temporary works influencing the landscape shall be removed in time,

the material stock grounds and mixing stations shall be cleared up, the construction

waste materials and sewage garbage shall be handled properly, the vegetation destroyed

by the temporary works shall be restored as much as possible. If the detour roads have

value of utilization, local government can be consulted to clear and repair them before

put into operation, at the same time the roadside shall be afforested and planted with

trees to restore the landscape environment. If the National Road 323 and local roads are

used as detour roads, during construction their pavements shall be maintained tidy and

neat, damaged sections shall be repaired in time. At the same time the traffic shall be

controlled and mobilized to avoid traffic jam.

      (7) Transportation management of National Road 323 shall be strengthened.

Vehicles transporting construction materials shall be constrained by their time of

passing, for example to avoid rush hour to transport roadbuilding materials; at the same

time the contractor is required to carry out good transportation plan. Sand and stones

shall be prepared in advance in a time with relatively small traffic.



- 44 -

                     Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



     (8) Local public security department and transportation management department

shall be coordinated and cooperated with so to dredge traffic jam in time, to deal with

traffic accident, and to ensure unblocked transportation.

     (9) In order to guarantee noncongestion of the original roads, in intersection

points of the highway with these roads, detour roads need to be set up. Such detours

roads must be located in one side of the original road, and after the intersection bridge is

open to traffic, the detour road will be built into highway subgrade.

     (10) In conspicuous place of construction site, telephone number for

environmental complaint will be posted for complaint; the owner and contractors

must immediately contact with local environmental protection department and solve

the dispute within 48 hours.

     (11) During construction, if unexplored underground historical relics are found,

then construction shall stop immediately, supervising engineer shall protect the site,

local historical relic department shall be notified to deal with.


3.6 Traffic accident management and prevention measures

3.6.1 Design

     (1) To design closed perfect drainage system which lead the bridge runoff into

subgrade drainage ditch so as to prevent hazardous substances on bridge from leaking

into the rivers?

     (2) In the entrances and exits of super-large bridge, large bridge and long tunnel,

to set up warning signs "Cautious Drive "(yellow) and "Speed limit 60km for hazardous

cargo vehicles (red)" respectively so to remind the drivers to be careful of safety and

speed control.

     (3) The 12 bridges (see Table 3.2.1-1) crossing water bodies are required to have

guardrails at both sides strengthened and reinforced to prevent the vehicles from falling

into the water and causing water pollution.

     (4) Runoff collection measures for bridges crossing water bodies

      In order to prevent river- and reservoir-crossing bridge sections from occurring

accident of hazardous articles vehicles resulting in water pollution, the bridges crossing

water bodies are required to design closed and perfect bridge floor drainage system

which can lead the runoff into the sedimenting tanks at the two ends of bridge so that

the leaked hazardous articles on the bridge floor will not enter into rivers along with the


                                                                                       - 45 -

                    Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



runoff.

        There are 12 bridges crossing rivers and reservoirs, for which special

drainage design have been conducted to collect the bridge floor runoff into the

sedimenting tanks at the two ends of bridge. The capacity of sedimenting tank is

required to store one rainfall(15 minutes)with the raining strength of the largest

rainfall in 5 years in that region plus 50%.

        During highway operation stage, the sedimenting tanks shall be periodically

maintained and managed so as to ensure their good use and operation.

      (5) Tunnel safety design

        To set up management facilities for tunnel operation and to install relevant

equipment

       Tunnel operation management facilities is composed of 8 systems such as

ventilating system, power supply and illumination system, fire-fighting system, traffic

control system, urgent telephone system, closed-circuit TV system, fire warning system

and central control system.

       A. Ventilation system

       The 3 tunnels longer than 1000m of this project (Zhonggongzhang tunnel, Yudu

tunnel and Xiashan tunnel) and Jiuling tunnel which is 540m long are all designed to

install mechanical ventilating equipment according to the design requirements of

Highway Tunnel Ventilation and Illumination Design Standard(JTJ026.1-1999).

The ventilation system is composed of boaster air blower, air blower driving cabin,

carbon monoxide monitor and visibility monitor. Two boaster air blowers form one

group installed under the crown in front of tunnel construction boundary limit. The

air blower power source is three-phase 380V adopting radiating power supply

method, each air blower independently is supplied electric power from one low

voltage outlet loop from the transformer substation, the air blower control point is

located in the transformer substation. Nearby the air blower in the tunnel there is

set up a distributing box installed with internal load switch which is used to cut off

the power in case of blower repair so as to ensure safety. The air blower control and

the local controller (PLC) within the tunnel hole are connected, the management

and maintenance staff can operate manually or automatically the air blower in the

air blower distributing box, or long-distance automatic control can be achieved



- 46 -

                   Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



through the PLC of the monitoring center.

      B.Firefighting system

      The firefighting system is composed of fire hydrant and chemical fire

extinguisher; the fire alarm system has fire alarm button. In tunnels smaller than

1000m in length, fire extinguishers are installed in two sides of driving direction,

and one extinguisher chamber is set up every 50m installed with three 6kg portable

ammonium phosphate dry powder fire extinguishers. In the 3 tunnels longer than

1000m in length, fire extinguishers and hydrants are installed (in the left and right

side of driving direction respectively).

      The firefighting water supply system is composed of water collecting tank

(catch basin), submerged pump, high level water storage tank and water supply pipe

network, the tunnel left and right lines use one water supply system forming a

reliable annular network of water supply by piping. The water used in firefighting is

collected from the water seepage from the mountain by the water collecting tank,

elevated by submerged pump installed in the collecting tank to the water storage

tank, which then is lead to each water-use point in the tunnel by the pipe

network(water is constantly available in the pipe network so that the water can be

used in firefighting in case of fire). Zhonggongzhang tunnel is 4160m long with the

tunnel longitudinal gradient being one-way slope, therefore there exists the problem

of pipeline overpressure. In order to guarantee the stability and safety of

firefighting system, it is to adopt use water supply in different zones by installing a

set of water supply system each in the entrance and exit. The firefighting water

consumption includes the water used in firefighting and other purposes.

Considering that the impact scope of fire is generally between 20 ~ 50m and

malignant accident will have serious impact, it is required to install 2 sets of fire

hydrants and 4 water guns and to install 2 sets of aqueous film firefighting systems.

The design firefighting duration time is 4 hours, the total water consumption is
approximately 302m3, therefore it is required to build two 300m3 high-level water

storage tanks, each on the mountain of tunnel portals respectively and to build one
500m3 water collecting tank under the mountain to collect water seepage from the

mountain. The water storage tank is equipped with water inlet pipe, outlet pipe,

blow-down pipe, overflow pipe, water level display control meter and air vent.



                                                                                   - 47 -

                   Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment




      CMonitoring system

      The tunnel safety monitoring adopts three-level control pattern, namely the

monitoring subcenter, tunnel management station and field control.

      With the aid of information gathered from wind speed wind and direction

detector, carbon monoxide/visibility detector, fire detection and alarming device

installed within the tunnel and rescues telephone installed outside, the monitoring

system adopts closed-circuit TV camera and daily patrol vehicles to further confirm,

issue control command for the outfield variable symbol and at the same time to

inform concerned departments to send personnel for site dispatch or rescue through

the processing and determination of central computer system.

       Tunnels all shall set up an emergency parking strip in the middle with good

surrounding rock condition, and correspondingly one transverse gallery for cars and two

transverse galleries for pedestrians in interval.

       To set up special-purpose signs to remind the drivers to pay attention to safe

driving.

3.6.2 Hazardous substance transportation management measures during operation

stage

      (1) Declare management system is enforced for vehicles transporting hazardous

cargo. The driver (owner) needs to fill in a declaration form indicating the hazardous

cargo license number, goods variety/grade/serial number, names of receiver and

dispatcher, loading/unloading place, cargo characteristic, etc.

      (2) In ultra-wide lane of highway entrance and exit, the three licenses shall be

checked for completeness, after proved to be satisfactory, vehicles are allowed to go.

      (3) Generally vehicles transporting hazardous cargo shall be arranged to pass

through in a period with less traffic volume (such as 12:30 - 15:00). Under bad climate

condition, they are forbidden to go on the highway.

      (4) On highway entrance and exit, drivers are distributed the "Safe Driving Guide

in Ruijin-Ganzhou Highway" which will be compiled by transportation security experts

and contains accident emergency treatment method, contact telephone number and

mailing address of safety commission, etc.

      (5) Declaration and checking of hazardous cargo transporting vehicles on highway

entrance and exit will be carried out by fee-collectors in tollgates. Relevant staff



- 48 -

                    Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



members shall be trained on hazardous cargo vehicle management method, declaration,

safety inspection, workflow and fire fighting, which will be included in the training plan

of the project.

     (6) When hazardous cargo vehicles loading detonator and explosive need to pass

tunnels, the staff members of tollgate stations shall notify tunnel management staff in

time that will send special personnel to escort the vehicles to pass the tunnel.

3.6.3 Tunnel pollution risk prevention

       Tunnel management station is in charge of the daily maintenance, repair and

emergency rescue so as to guarantee the normal work of ventilating, lighting, fire

reporting, fire control, closed-circuit TV, emergency call, signal lamp, etc. and to

control them.

       Tunnel management staff shall be trained, which will be incorporated into the

training plan, so to improve their ability and management level to handle accident.

       Air quality in the tunnel shall be monitored, which will be included in the

environmental monitoring plan and the monitoring data will be reported in time.

       To strengthen management over hazardous cargo transportation

       To enforce declaration system;

       To enforce sample-check system;

       Under unfavorable climatic conditions, hazardous cargo transportation

vehicles are forbidden to enter tunnel.

      The above-mentioned two activities  and  are implemented by tunnel

management staff.

3.6.4 Hazardous substance traffic accident emergency plan

    (1) In case accident happens, any person who discovers shall immediately report

to the central control room through roadside emergency call or other communication

means.

    (2) After receiving the accident report, the central control room shall immediately

notify nearby highway policemen to go to the accident site to control the site;

meanwhile, local fire department shall be notified who shall send fire-fighting vehicles

and firemen to rescue.

    (3) If the hazardous cargo is solid, they can be cleaned and handled, and the



                                                                                      - 49 -

                     Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



accident shall be recorded in file.

      (4) If the hazardous cargo is gaseous and highly toxic, firemen shall wear gas

mask to deal with; In case that the hazardous cargo will leak unavoidably, local

environmental protection department and public security department shall be notified

immediately, and when necessary, people in the pollution range along the route shall be

evacuated to avoid poisoning, injuries and deaths.

      (5) If the hazardous cargo is of liquid state, and has already entered public water

body, local environmental protection department shall be notified immediately. The

environmental protection department shall immediately notify downstream units to stop

fetching water, and at the same time shall send environmental experts and monitoring

personnel to monitor the site and to salvage in time the hazardous cargo container which

falls into the water body.

      (6) Treatment measure for hazardous cargo accident within tunnel

      Besides the above hazardous cargo accident treatment measures, for treatment

measure for hazardous cargo accident within tunnel, special emphasis must be given

to the prompt cleaning of the scene, to the inspection of ventilation and warning

equipment in order to eliminates noxious gas pollution to the environment as soon

as possible

3.6.5 Analysis of accident emergency ability

      (1) The tunnel monitoring scheme covers three cases: normal, fire and traffic

accident, according to which, programs on ventilation control, illumination control and

traffic control are formulated.

      (2) The operation of the expressway (including the tunnels) is under monitor all

the time. In case of accident, it can be known at first time, and the first-aid rescue

organization, fire control department, environmental protection department, and traffic

police, etc. can be notified in time for rescue, fire fighting, traffic evacuation and

environmental monitoring. Fire fighting and injury/death first-aid will be handled by

nearby departments. The highway management department needs to establish

connection with fire fighting and medical organizations along the route and shall

provide telecommunication means.

      (3) In order to strengthen the ability to deal with hazardous cargo traffic accident,

Jiangxi Provincial Communications Department Project Office convene meetings, share



- 50 -

                   Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



experience and carry out training so as to improve the ability to deal with similar

accidents. Equipment damaged in accident shall be maintained, repaired, installed and

calibrated in time so as to put into operation as soon as possible.

      After the above measures are rigidly enforced, it can be thought that this project

has relatively strong emergency ability handling traffic accidents.


3.7 Environmental protection measures for roadbuilding materials and

transportation

     (1) The quarry contractors must observe the security regulations on outdoor

blasting to confirm ignite time which shall avoid work peak hour; the contractors must

conscientiously protect worker's personal security, must provide helmet, earplug, etc. to

workers according to relevant labor protection regulations, and provide regular physical

examination to them.

     (2) For the soil erosion caused by stone quarries, management must be

strengthened to formulate excavation plan so to control the vegetation damage and soil

erosion in stone quarries to the minimum.

     (3) Transport vehicle shall observe local traffic regulations, overloading is

forbidden to prevent bulk stones or other roadbuilding materials from falling and halting

the traffic. Transportation department is responsible for such inspection.

     (4) Detour roads shall be sprinkled by water regularly. Vehicles transporting

roadbuilding material easy to lose shall be covered by fluffy cloth.

     (5) The contractors shall well prepare transportation plan so to avoid transporting

materials in peak hours.

     (6) It is required to rationally choose roads for transporting stones so to avoid

dense residences and schools as much as possible. When there is residential area 50

meters within the transporting road, such stone transportation is forbidden at night (22:

00- 6. 00 next day). Meanwhile, blasting is forbidden at night.

     (7) In daytime, if noise interference is produced in schools and residential areas

near detour road, movable sound barriers can be set up to mitigate the noise impact.

     (8) To strengthen transportation management of detour roads. The contractor is

required to do a good job in vehicle maintenance so to make the noise level of the

vehicles at a minimum level.



                                                                                    - 51 -

                  Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



      (9) The supervising engineer is required to strengthen noise monitoring. If

materials transportation makes the acoustic environmental quality of residential areas

along detour roads worsening, the driving route can be considered to change, or some

economic compensation can be made with agreement from local residents.




- 52 -

                        Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment




          4 Executing organization for environmental
                              management and its duties


  4.1 Executing organization for environmental management

        The environmental management of the proposed project is in the charge of Jiangxi

  Provincial Communication Department for organization and implementation, the

  Jiangxi Provincial Communication Department World Bank Loan Project Office is

  responsible for the environmental management for this project. The environmental

  management organizations for this project during construction and operation stages are

  shown in Fig. 4.1-1 and Fig. 4.1-2.


                              Jiangxi Provincial Communication Department
                                     Environmental Office (3 persons)



                                     Jiangxi Provincial Communication
                                Department World Bank Loan Project Office


                   Jiangxi Provincial Communication Department World Bank Loan Project
                                   Office environmental section 4 persons




Designers        Environmental protection           Contractors                 Jiangxi Provincial
            supervising engineer12 persons         (more than 1)            Environmental Monitoring



                                                              Ruijin Municipal       Ganzhou Municipal
                                                               Environmental            Environmental
                                                             Monitoring Station      Monitoring Station




          Fig. 4.1-1 Environmental management organization during construction stage




                                                                                                   - 53 -

                     Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment




                                  Jiangxi Provincial Communication
                                Department Planning Office (3 persons)




                                  Jiangxi Provincial Expressways
                                           Administration



                   Jiangxi Provincial Expressways Administration Environmental Protection
                                          Department4 persons




      HuichangManagementStation     Yudu Management Station           Ganxian Management Station
        EPpersonnel(1person)        EP personnel (1 person)            EP personnel(1 person)

          Fig. 4.1-2 Environmental management organization during operation stage


      The environmental protection office of Ministry of Communications is responsible

for coordinating the environmental protection work of the transportation sector in

unison.

      The Jiangxi Provincial Communication Department Planning Office is also

responsible for environmental management function for transportation circle in the

entire province, by formulating environmental protection management method and

regulation, compiling environmental protection plan and supervising its implementation

in this province.

      The Jiangxi Provincial Communication Department World Bank Loan Project

Office is the implementation organization for this project, in May 5 2000 (World Lank

loan Jiangxi 2nd road project), it established a coordination leading group for project,

environmental protection, and resettlement, which is composed of an environmental

protection group and an immigration resettlement group with a staff of 3 ~ 6 people, of

whom, 1 person is an environment expert. Its primary duties are:

       To prepare this project's environmental impact assessment report and

environment management plan.

       To be responsible for this project's environment management and immigration

resettlement work.

       To finalize the environmental protection provisions in the contract, to

cooperate the environmental supervising engineer, to provide environmental protection



- 54 -

                   Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



execution situation in the construction stage.

      To sign environmental monitoring contract with local environmental

monitoring station, to inspect implementation of environmental monitoring plan, and to

submit the implementation situation and the monitoring report.

      To coordinate the relationship among the environmental supervising engineer,

the contractors and the design personnel.

      To be responsible for accept environmental protection complaint and local

environmental protection department's surveillance.

      To purchase handhold automatic noise monitoring meter, to be responsible for

noise monitoring during operation stage.

     In this project's construction stage, each bid section is staffed with one

environmental protection supervising engineer, whose responsibilities are:

      To supervise the implementation of environmental protection measures

stipulated in EMP and the tender document;

      To be responsible for noise monitoring during construction stage.

     Contractor of each bid section will assign more than 1 full-time environmental

protection staff member(s) in construction stage, whose duties are:

      Responsible for strictly carrying out and implementing the environmental

protection measures and works definitely specified in the contract and bidding

documents when the contracted project in under construction;

      To cooperate with the environment supervising engineer to check and correct

behaviors harmful to environmental protection during construction stage.

     After completion of the project, the whole line will set up 3 highway management

stations, each staffed with one full-time environmental protection staff member in

charge of all environmental protection works in its managed section during operation

stage.


4.2 Environmental management plan

     In order to ensure the environmental concerns of this project be implemented in

time, the following environmental management plan is formulated (Table 4.2-1). Table

4.3-1 presents the Key EMP factors of the proposed highway.




                                                                                   - 55 -

                                                           Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment




                                                           Table4.2-1Environmentalmanagementplanforthisproject
                                                                                                                                   Implementing
                 Potential environmental impact                                       Mitigation measures                          organization     Responsible organization

IPlanning and designing stage
1. Migration and forced resettlement of residents in road 1. To formulate and carry out fair and proper resettlement plan
right-of-way                                                    and to compensate for
2. Loss of land resource                                        2. To occupy as few lands (good farmland) as possible
3. Loss of environmental beauty                                 3. To meticulously design so to make it in harmony with
                                                                landform (landscape)
4. Blocked way from house to farmland, increased walking 4. To provide suitable number of passageways in suitable                                        Jiangxi Provincial
time                                                            locations                                                             Local        Communication Department
5. Soil erosion caused by open or blind drainage ditches on 5. To increase number of water outlet, to set up good outlet in         government
the soil lower than subgrade                                    order to avoid cascade effects                                                           Jiangxi Provincial
6. Bridge floor runoff pollution                                6. To make the bridge floor runoff of the 12 bridge sections        Design unit    Expressways Administration
                                                                overcrossing rivers along the route not enter into water bodies
7. in case of accident in river-crossing section, hazardous directly, to set up sedimenting tanks at both sides of bridges                            World Bank Loan Project
  cargo vehicles fall into river and cause water pollution      7. To strengthen the protection guardrails of the 12 bridge                                 Office
8. The route runs through floodplain, influencing flood sections crossing rivers along the route
discharge and enlarging the influenced area                     8. To adjust route alignment or to increase bridge length                                Local government
9. Schools, gerocomium and villages with excess noise due to 9. To design noise reduction measures such as sound barrier
  traffic noise of the highway                                  and soundproofing window in 62 sensitive locations with
                                                                excess noise
10. Risk of fire accident within tunnels                        10. To conduct special design for ventilation and safety for
                                                                tunnels and to formulate effective management and rescue
                                                                measures
IIConstruction stage
1.Increased river sediment due to erosion in construction site, 1.To use coverings or fiber to protect sensitive surface, to plant
road cutting and waste disposal                                 reliable plants as soon as possible.                                                     Jiangxi Provincial
2. Oil/engine oil/fuel and paint's pollution to soil and water 2. To collect recycled lubricant, to prevent accidental spillover                   Communication Department
produced in equipment ground and bituminous mixing station      by good operation.
                                                                                                                                    Contractors
3.   Ambient      air    pollution   in   bituminous    mixing 3. To install and open air pollution control devices, to choose                           Jiangxi Provincial
                                                                                                                                   (construction
station/stabilizing soil mixing station                         suitable place                                                                     Expressways Administration
4. Dust, noise and air pollution in construction site           4. To regularly sprinkle water on temporary road, to install          unit)

5. Unexplored underground historical relics found during silencer on equipment and to maintain in time.                                               World Bank Loan Project
construction                                                    5. To stop construction and to notify historical relics                                     Office
6. Landform disruption produced from embankment/fill and administrative department for protection
stone production                                                6. To make it integrated into landform (landscape) through



- 56 -

                                                         World Bank Loan Jiangxi Project No. 3 Environmental Assessment




                                                                                                                                 Implementing
                Potential environmental impact                                      Mitigation measures                          organization       Responsible organization

7. Interference to facilities along the highway (electricity/ design, to repair the broken earth surface
telecommunication, etc.)                                      7. To sign agreement with related departments, to relocate
8. Existing road driving conditions impacted during after being first open so to reduce impacts
construction.                                                 8. To strengthen traffic administration in possible traffic
9. Formidable sewage facilities and solid waste in conflict points.
construction site                                             9. To provide suitable lavatory and dustbin, to strengthen
10. Possible infectious disease dissemination among workers environmental management.
and local people.                                             10. To regularly examine workers' health, to handle when
11.Temporary germ (mosquito) breeding habitat produced needed
such as stagnant pool on sunny side.                          11. To adopt necessary measures to avoid producing
12. Influence to land yield produced by large earth borrowing reproducible place
                                                              12. To keep the topsoil and to pile collectively, to level land as
                                                              soon as possible after construction, and to recover the topsoil
                                                              so to shorten temporary land use time
IIIOperation stage                                            1. To install sound barriers or other noise-reduction measures
1. Ambient air pollution and noise pollution produced by in acoustic sensitive locations along the route according to
vehicle driving.                                              predicted noise excess, and to control follow-up monitoring
                                                              during operation stage and to adopt noise reduction measures
2. Persistent soil erosion                                    on time; to control the technological condition of vehicles
3. Highway runoff pollution in bridge floor and road running in the highway so to reduce air pollution and to
pavement                                                      strengthen public transportation and traffic managerial ability                             Jiangxi Provincial
4. Sewage discharge and pollution in service areas, parking 2. To meticulously maintain/afforest/add protection works                             Communication Department
areas and management stations                                 3. To make the bridge floor and road pavement runoff not             Jiangxi
5. Disorderly roadside                                        enter into water bodies directly, runoff shall be collected and     Provincial     Jiangxi Provincial Expressways
6. Toxicant spillover/injury or death caused by accident of treated; to set up sedimenting tanks at both ends of the 13          Expressways             Administration
vehicle traffic and transportation                            bridges overcrossing rivers along the route and to maintain and    Administration
                                                              manage them well                                                                   Ganzhou Prefecture and Ruijin
                                                              4. To install sewage treatment facilities in the 12 service areas                  City environmental monitoring
                                                              along the route.                                                                              stations
                                                              5. To provide treatment equipment, to formulate regulation
                                                              forbidding throwing out waste
                                                              6. To formulate and enforce emergency accident handling
                                                              plan, especially in tunnel and bridge sections, to set up
                                                              necessary organizations and management procedures to inhibit
                                                              dangers caused by accidents




                                                                                                                                                                            - 57 -

                                                           Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



                                                               Table4.3-1KeyEMPfactorsoftheproposedhighway
   Environmental                                                                                                                 Implementing      Responsible
      problem                                               Actions taken or to be taken                                          organization     organization  Contract clause

A Design stage
                     The recommended alignment scheme was determined from different route schemes during the                                         Jiangxi
                     feasibility study stage and preliminary design stage, for partial route sections, different comparison                        Provincial
1.Rout selection     alternative schemes are set up and in next stage the partial route schemes will be further optimized and     Design unit
                                                                                                                                                  Communication
                     compared so as to minimize adverse impacts on environment and society, and similarly also to avoid                            Department
                     unfavorable geological conditions and cultural relic sites.
                     Designed 203 passageways to satisfy traffic demand of inhabitant and vehicles.                                                  Jiangxi

2.Disturb people                                                                                                                  Design unit      Provincial
                                                                                                                                                  Communication
                                                                                                                                                   Department
                     In side slopes and appropriate roadside places, it is to plant bush, grass as well as to set up retaining                      Jiangxi
                     walls, catch drains, mortar pitching to prevent soil erosion.                                                                 Provincial
3.Soil erosion        Designed temporary and permanent water drainage system, the affected irrigation ponds will be dug          Design unit
                                                                                                                                                  Communication
                     again to keep soil erosion and influence on water conservation dam to a minimum.                                              Department
                     Designed protection works for 12 earth borrow pits and 24 waste banks.
                     Except for the actions in item "1", earth borrow pits, material yards, waste banks, stabilizing earth                           Jiangxi

4.Dust/air pollution mixing station and asphalt mixing station have been identified the necessity to consider dust pollution      Design unit      Provincial
                     on residences, educational and cultural units.                                                                               Communication
                                                                                                                                                   Department
                     The 12 service areas, parking lots and other facilities have designed sewage treatment facility to make                         Jiangxi
                     the waste water discharged into public water body after satisfying designated standard.                                       Provincial
5.Water pollution                                                                                                                 Design unit
                                                                                                                                                  Communication
                                                                                                                                                   Department
                     Except for the actions in item "1", sufficient measures such as removal and sound barrier have been                             Jiangxi
                     confirmed and incorporated into the design and tender documents.                                                              Provincial
6.Noise                                                                                                                           Design unit
                                                                                                                                                  Communication
                                                                                                                                                   Department
                     Carried out cultural relic investigation, submitted the cultural relic investigation report.              Jiangxi Provincial    Jiangxi
                                                                                                                                                   Provincial
7.Cultural relics                                                                                                               Archaeological
                                                                                                                                    Institute     Communication
                                                                                                                                                   Department
                     Bridge and culvert have undertaken sufficient design so to satisfy flood discharge requirement (1/300                           Jiangxi
8.Flood              years for large bridge, 1/100 years for others).                                                             Design unit      Provincial
                                                                                                                                                  Communication



- 58 -

                                                         World Bank Loan Jiangxi Project No. 3 Environmental Assessment




   Environmental                                                                                                                 Implementing      Responsible
      problem                                               Actions taken or to be taken                                         organization      organization   Contract clause

                                                                                                                                                   Department
                     Conducted strengthening design for the protection guardrails of the 13 bridges overcrossing rivers                              Jiangxi
9.Hazardouas cargo   along the route, sedimenting tanks at both sides of bridges will be set up to collect bridge floor runoff;                     Provincial
transport                                                                                                                         Design unit
                     accident contingency plan have been formulated so to prevent impact on water body because of                                 Communication
                     hazardous cargo transportation accident.                                                                                      Department
B.Construction
stage
                     During construction period water will be sprayed, especially on stabilizing earth mixing station and                           Jiangxi
                     asphalt concrete mixing station and detour road. When filling subgrade, water will be sprayed to                               Provincial
                     compact the material, after material compaction, water will be sprayed regularly to prevent dusting.                          Expressways    Contract general
                     Warehouses and stock grounds will be covered, unless the material is used immediately.                      Contractors      Administration   clause 19.1
1.Dust/air pollution Vehicles transporting roadbuilding materials must also be covered to reduce spillage and fall.           (construction unit)                Project specific
                     Stabilizing earth mixing station and asphalt concrete mixing station must be at least 300m leeward                           World Bank     clause 19.1(5)
                     from residences.                                                                                                              Loan Project
                     Mixing equipment must have good sealing and the vibrators must be installed with dust removal                                  Office
                     device, the workers shall pay attention to labor protection.
                     In suitable places such as side slope and roadside, trees and grass will be planted, especially on
                     high-fill and deep=cut section, stone walls will be covered and grass will be planted.                                          Jiangxi
                     If existing irrigation, drainage system or pond is damaged, they will be rebuilt or reconstructed.                            Provincial
                     When lime and other easily flying materials are piled together, they will be fenced by brick or earth                        Expressways
2.Soil erosion/water walls and be kept from water body.                                                                           Contractors      Administration Project specific

pollution            In constructing permanent drainage system, temporary canals and culverts will be constructed for         (construction unit)                clause 19.1(6)
                     irrigation and drainage.                                                                                                      World Bank     (7)
                     All necessary measures will be taken to prevent the earth ad stone from blocking river and canal                             Loan Project
                     course or current irrigation and drainage system.                                                                               Office
                     All reasonable measures will be taken to prevent the waste water produced in construction from
                     entering into river courses and irrigation canals directly.
                     Garbage can and sanitary disposal facility will be provided in construction campsites, and will be                             Jiangxi
                     cleaned up regularly.                                                                                                          Provincial    Contract general
                     The drinking water will satisfy Chinese national drinking water standard.                                                    Expressways    clause 32.1
3.Constructon        Hygienic propaganda and education will be regularly educated to the construction workers.                   Contractors      Administration Contract
campsite                                                                                                                       (construction unit)
                                                                                                                                                                  specific  clause
                                                                                                                                                   World Bank     35.435.535.6
                                                                                                                                                   Loan Project
                                                                                                                                                     Office




                                                                                                                                                                             - 59 -

                                                          Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment




   Environmental                                                                                                              Implementing       Responsible
      problem                                               Actions taken or to be taken                                       organization     organization    Contract clause

                    It is to strictly enforce industrial enterprise noise standard so to prevent workers from noise damage,
                    the workers close to strong acoustic source will wear ear plug and helmet, and their working duration
                    will be limited.                                                                                                               Jiangxi
                    When there are large residences 150m within construction site, noisy construction shall not undertake
                                                                                                                                                 Provincial
                      at night (22:00 ~ 6:00).                                                                                                                  Contract
                                                                                                                                                Expressways
                    Machinery and vehicle maintenance will be strengthened to keep their noise to a minimum.                  Contractors      Administration  specific  clause
4.Noise             If construction machinery noise produces disturbance on schools, mobile sound barrier shall be                                             34.5
                                                                                                                            (construction unit)
                    established.                                                                                                                                Project specific
                                                                                                                                                 World Bank
                    When there are large-sized residences50mwithin detour roads, transportation of construction                                Loan Project    clause 19.1(4)
                    materials shall be forbidden at night on the detour roads.
                                                                                                                                                    Office
                    In G323 on which construction materials are transported and on residences near detour roads,
                    monitoring points will be set up, and corresponding measures will be taken according to monitored
                    results.
                    In order to protect forestland from damaged, earth shall not be borrowed from forestland, and                                 Jiangxi
                    materials shall not be piled and temporary campsite shall not be built in forestland.                                        Provincial
                                                                                                                                                                Project specific
5.Protection     of Farmland shall not be used as earth borrowing pits as much as possible, if inevitable, the topsoil                         Expressways
                                                                                                                               Contractors                      clause 19.1(6)
  ecological        (30cm) will be retained, and promptly backfilled.                                                                           Administration
                    Education on construction workers will be strengthened to protect natural resources and wildlife (construction unit)                       (7)42.4
  resource
                    animals and plants, hunting is strictly forbidden.                                                                           World Bank
                    Construction vehicles will run on temporary detour roads so as not to damage farmland and                                  Loan Project
                    vegetation.                                                                                                                     Office
                    In order to guarantee construction security, on temporary roads, effective lighting devices and safety                        Jiangxi
                    signals will be installed, and at the same time full traffic regulations will be adopted and enforced.                       Provincial
                    During construction stage, the blasting time, signal and security guard will be regulated; vehicles in                     Expressways
                    dangerous areas will be immediately dispersed.                                                             Contractors      Administration  Project specific
6.Accident risk     Before blasting, careful and thorough inspection must be taken.                                        (construction unit)                 clause 79.1
                    Safety watchout post will be set up so to prevent people and vehicles from passing before blasting;                         World Bank
                    during rush peak hours, blasting will not be conducted so to avoid traffic jam and personnel casualty.                      Loan Project
                    Blasting material management and use will strictly follow public security department's safety                                  Office
                    requirements.

                    If there discovered any fossil, ancient coin, architecture or other remains of archaeological and         Contractors         Jiangxi

                    geological value, construction shall stop immediately, and such discovery shall be reported to local      (construction      Provincial     Project specific
7.Cultural relics   cultural relic department immediately until authorized protection department completes the cultural           unit)         cultural Relics clause 27.2
                    relic confirmation.                                                                                                         Administration
                                                                                                                            Jiangxi Provincial     Jiangxi




- 60 -

                                                       World Bank Loan Jiangxi Project No. 3 Environmental Assessment




   Environmental                                                                                                               Implementing       Responsible
      problem                                             Actions taken or to be taken                                          organization      organization    Contract clause

                                                                                                                              Archaeological       Provincial
                                                                                                                                  Institute      Expressways
                                                                                                                                                 Administration

                                                                                                                                                  World Bank
                                                                                                                                                 Loan Project
                                                                                                                                                     Office
                    Local construction materials shall be used as much as possible so to avoid long-distance transport of
                    construction materials, especially the earth and stone works.                                                                   Jiangxi
                    When there is traffic jam during construction stage, enough traffic mobilizing measures shall be taken                        Provincial
                    with coordination from transportation and public security departments.                                                       Expressways
8.Traffic       and In the interchange places of the proposed highway with other roads, temporary access roads will be         Contractors      Administration   Project specific
transportation      built.                                                                                                   (construction unit)                  clause 30.1
                    Materials can be considered to prepare in advance in seasons with fewer traffic jams (Jan/Feb and                            World Bank
                    Sept/Oct).                                                                                                                   Loan Project
                    A construction material transportation plan will be formulated to avoid transportation in rush hour,                            Office
                    especially on existing roads.
C.Operation stage
                    Prefectural or municipal transportation departments will set up respective coordinating organizations                           Local
                    for chemical hazardous cargo transportation.                                                                                 transportation
                    Chemical hazardous cargo transportation implements the system of "cargo license" , "driver license"                         bureau, public
                    and "guardian license" issued by transportation department. All vehicles engaged in hazardous                               security and fire
                    chemical freight transportation shall use unified special-purpose sign.                                                         bureau,
1.Hazardous cargo   Public security, transportation management and fire fighting departments shall designate driving route  Jiangxi Provincial
                                                                                                                                                 environmental
  leakage risk                                                                                                                 Expressways
                    to vehicles transporting hazardous cargo. The vehicles transporting chemical hazardous cargo must be      Administration       protection
                    parked in designated parking lot.                                                                                            bureau, Jiangxi
                    Regarding this project's hazardous cargo transportation management, the highway administration                                Provincial
                    department will manage through registration system.                                                                          Expressways
                    In case hazardous cargo leaks, such accident must be reported to concerned departments immediately,                         Administration
                    and must be handled according to formulated emergency plan.
                    It is to strengthen inspection on vehicles noise and exhaust tail gas. If the vehicles noise exceeds the                       Jiangxi
2.Vehicle           allowed standard or does not comply with discharge standard, they are not allowed to run on the Jiangxi Provincial             Provincial
management          highway.                                                                                                   Expressways       Expressways
                    Announcement and education will be strengthened to the people on relevant laws and regulation            Administration     Administration
                    concerning vehicle air pollution and noise.




                                                                                                                                                                             - 61 -

                                                        Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment




   Environmental                                                                                                                Implementing     Responsible
      problem                                             Actions taken or to be taken                                           organization    organization   Contract clause

                  Massive cargo transportation of coal, cement, sand and simply packaged chemical fertilizer and
                   others may possibly spill along the route and pollute the road. Entrance inspection will be
                   strengthened, vehicles that do not have enough measures to prevent such spillage will not be allowed
                   to run on this highway.

                                                                                                                              Jiangxi Provincial   Jiangxi
                   According to predicted and monitored results, sound barriers, soundproofing windows and other                                  Provincial
3.Noise                                                                                                                         Expressways
                   noise-reduction measures will be adopted in sensitive locations with noise excess along the route.
                                                                                                                               Administration    Expressways
                                                                                                                                                 Administration
                                                                                                                              Jiangxi Provincial   Jiangxi
4.Maintenance   of                                                                                                              Expressways       Provincial
  drainage system  Drainage system will be desilted periodically so to ensure a smooth operation.
                                                                                                                               Administration    Expressways
                                                                                                                                                 Administration

                   It is forbidden to build civilian houses 207m within two sides of the road center line, and it is forbidden      Land            Land
5. Others          to build schools and hospitals 310m within two sides of the road center line.                                management       management
                                                                                                                                 department       department
D.Environmental
monitoring
                    Construction stage
                         a. Monitoring itemTSP, bituminous smoke
                         b. Monitoring frequencyonce/weekrandom monitoring
                         c. Monitoring time1 day                                                                                                 Supervising

                         d. Monitoring pointstabilizing earth mixing station, large residence and school near unpaved               Local         company,
                                                                                                                                                   Jiangxi
1. Ambient air     construction road and bitumen concrete mixing station                                                        environmental
                    Operation stage                                                                                                               Provincial
                                                                                                                              monitoring station
                         a. Monitoring itemNO2 ,HC                                                                                               Expressways
                                                                                                                                                 Administration
                         b. Monitoring frequency2 time/year(winter and summer)
                         c. Monitoring time12 days, continuous monitoring in 24 hours
                         d. Monitoring point, Penggwu, Laohupai, Shiziishuxia
                    Monitoring frequency                                                                                                         Supervising
                         a. Construction stageonce/monthrandom monitoring if needed                                            EP supervising     company,
                         b. Operation stage4 times/year                                                                                          World Bank
2.Noise                  c. Monitoring time2 times/day(daytime and nighttime)                                                 engineer or Local  Loan Project
                                                                                                                                environmental
                    Monitoring point                                                                                          monitoring station   Office,
                         a. Construction stage                                                                                                     Jiangxi
                          Main line of the proposed highway: construction sites 100m within which there are residences or                         Provincial



- 62 -

                                                World Bank Loan Jiangxi Project No. 3 Environmental Assessment




  Environmental                                                                                                Implementing      Responsible
     problem                                       Actions taken or to be taken                                organization      organization   Contract clause

                    sensitive units                                                                                              Expressways
                   residences near detour roads: ShanshupaiYuyang                                                                Administration
                   b. Operation stage
                    schoolsDatian primary school, Huoxing primary school, Wansong primary school
                    residenceYangwu, Citangxia, Xinxiaowu, Wanjiangwan, Heliaoxia, Shihuiling, Pengwu,
                               Maoping, Chenwu, Shizishuxia, Shanbiantoushang, Yongquangangshang
                  Construction stage
                   a. Monitoring itempH, CODCr, SS, petroleum
                   b. Monitoring frequencyad hoc during construction                                                             Supervising
                   c. Monitoring time1 day                                                                                        company,
                   d. Monitoring point100m upstream and 200m downstream the bridge sites of Shangba Gongshui                     World Bank
                       river super-large bridge (K63+025), Jiaolin Gongjiang River bridge (K114+940), Chenwu       Local         Loan Project
3.Water quality        Gongjiang River bridge (K118+920), Ganjiang River super-large bridge (K135+491)         environmental       Office,
                  Operation stage                                                                             monitoring station   Jiangxi
                   a. Monitoring itempH, CODCr, SS, petroleum, grease, TP, TN, BOD5                                               Provincial
                   b. Monitoring frequency2 times/year                                                                           Expressways
                   c. Monitoring time2 days                                                                                      Administration
                   d. Monitoring point  sewage outlets of Xijiang service area and Yudu service area,
                       downstream50m of Ganjiang River super-large bridge site (K135+491)




                                                                                                                                                           - 63 -

                        Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment




4.3 Supervising organization

      The environmental protection works of this project are subject to supervision from

China National Environmental Protection Agency,Jiangxi provincial Environmental

Protection Agency,municipal(county) environmental protection departments along the

route. This project's environmental management and supervision plans are shown in

Table 4.3-1.

              Table4.3-1 Environmentalmanagementandsupervisionplanofthisproject
   Stage       Organization              Supervision contents                       Supervision purposes
                                                                         1. To guarantee that the EIA contents are

              China National                                             complete,      topic    identification   is

              Environmental    1.To review TOR of environmental appropriate,              the    key   points    are

 Feasibility Protection Agency assessment                                highlighted.

   study     Jiangxi Provincial2.to review EIA report                    2. To guarantee that the great potential

              Environmental    3. To review EMP (Environmental problems produced by this project have

             Protection Agency Management Plan)draft.                    been already reflected.
                                                                         3. To guarantee that the mitigation
                                                                         measures are specific and feasible.
                World Bank
              China National
Design and    Environmental
construction Protection Agency 1.To review preliminary design for        1.To       strictly     enforce      "Three
                                                                         simultaneousness" and the environmental
   stage     Jiangxi Provincialenvironmental protection and EMP          protection measures promised in EMP.
              Environmental
             Protection Agency
                World Bank
              China National   2.To     make      sure    whether    the 2.To     guarantee     the   environmental

              Environmental    environmental protection investment protection investment is available in full

             Protection Agency is finalized                              sum

                                3. To inspect whether the locations of
                                stock    grounds,    concrete    mixing
                                station, stabilizing soil mixing station 3.To    guarantee    these  stations  meet

                                and bituminous mixing station are        environmental protection requirements

                                reasonable
                                                                          4. To reduce impacts on surrounding

             Jiangxi Provincial 4. To inspect dust and noise pollution,   environment     caused   by    engineering

              Environmental     to determine construction time            construction, to enforce relevant laws,

             Protection Agency                                            regulations      and     standards      of

                Prefectural,                                              environmental protection

               municipal and    5.    To     inspect     whether     the
                  county        management methods and measures 5. To reduce impacts on surrounding
               environmental    for   loading/unloading     and   piling environment      caused   by    engineering
             protection bureaus poisonous, harmful substances are construction, to enforce relevant laws,
                                applicable or not, to inspect whether regulations          and     standards      of
                                the air pollutant discharge satisfies the environmental protection
                                corresponding discharge standard
                                6. To inspect whether the discharge
                                and treatment method of sewage and 6. To guarantee surface water not
                                engine oil in the construction site are contaminated
                                suitable or not

                                7.To restore and handle earth borrow        7.To guarantee that the landscape and
                                                                            land resources are restored as soon as
             Jiangxi Provincial pits and waste banks                        possible
              Environmental    8.To        inspect      the      "Three
             Protection Agency simultaneousness" of environmental        8.     To      guarantee     the     "Three

                               protection facilities, to determine final simultaneousness"       of   environmental

                               completion time                           protection facilities




- 64 -

                    World Bank Loan Jiangxi Project No. 3 Environmental Assessment




 Stage      Organization              Supervision contents                     Supervision purposes
           China National    9.To      inspect     whether       the
           Environmental     environmental    protection   facilities9.To accept environmental protection

          Protection Agency meet design standard                     facilities

          Jiangxi Provincial
           Environmental
          Protection Agency 10.To inspect whether there are 10.To guarantee that relics are not
          Jiangxi Provincial underground relics                      damaged
                Relics
           Administration
                             1. To inspect the implementation of
                             EMP     (environmental    management    1.    To   finalize   the  environmental

                             plan) during operation stage.           requirements proposed in EMP.

          Jiangxi Provincial 2. To inspect the implementation of     2. To finalize the implement contents of

           Environmental     environmental monitoring plan.          the environmental monitoring plan.

          Protection Agency 3 To inspect whether it is necessary to  3.    To    protect    the   environment

                             take further environmental protection   conscientiously so to minimize        the

                             measures (environmental problems        impacts on environment caused by the

                             not estimated originally may occur)     project construction and operation.

                             4.    To    inspect     whether     the

          Jiangxi Provincial environmental         quality        of

           Environmental     environmental     sensitive  locations 4.      To    strengthen    environmental
                             meets their corresponding quality management, to protect people's life
Operation Protection Agency  requirement.                            quality conscientiously
 stage       Prefectural,
            municipal and    5. To inspect whether the sewage 5 To guarantee the sewage discharge meet

                county       disposal of service area is up to standard requirement

            environmental    discharge standard                      6. To guarantee drinking water source not

          protection bureaus 6. To inspect whether the road surface polluted
                             water is entered into drinking water
                             source

          Jiangxi Provincial 7. To strengthen supervision to

           Environmental     prevent    emergency     accident,    to

          Protection Agency  eliminate accident-hidden danger. To

           Public security   formulate in advance urgent accident 7. To eliminate accident hidden danger to

           department and    handling plan so to eliminate dangers avoid fatal pollution accident.

             fire-fighting   in time in case of accident and to

             department      ensure hypertoxic material is not
                             leaked in the accident.




                                                                                                        - 65 -

                    Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment




5 Environmental monitoring plan and environmental
                          standard threshold value


5.1 Environmental monitoring plan

       Formulation purpose and principle

      The purpose to formulate environmental monitoring plan is to supervise the

implementation of each measure in order to adjust the environmental action plan in

good time according to the result of monitoring and to provide the basis for the

implementation time and scheme of environmental protection measures. The principle is

to follow the anticipated main environmental impacts of each period (construction or

operation stage).

       Monitoring items

      According to the anticipated environmental impact analysis and assessment results,

the monitoring items during construction stage are identified as TSP, bituminous smoke,

construction noise and water quality; the monitoring items during operation stage are

identified as traffic noise, ambient air, water environment.

       Environmental monitoring organization

      It is more convenient for the noise monitoring during construction stage to be

carried out by supervising engineer. Other monitoring can be entrusted to local

environmental monitoring stations. The construction unit will sign monitoring contract

during construction stage with the monitoring stations before constructing, and sign

monitoring contract during operation stage with the monitoring stations before the

project is made available to the users.

       Environmental monitoring plan

      The environmental monitoring plan for this project is shown in Table 9.1.3-1.

       Monitoring cost

      The monitor cost during construction stage for this project is estimated to be

600,000 yuan, which of during operation stage is 840,000 yuan (see Table 5.1-1). The

total monitoring cost for this project is 1,440,000 yuan.




- 66 -

                     Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



                                  Table5.1-1 Listofmonitoringcost

   Stage              Construction stage                   Operation stage
                                                                                             Remark
    Item           Unit price          Cost           Unit price           Cost

                     50,000          150,000
   Noise                                         100,000 yuan/year     600,000 yuan
                   yuan/year           yuan                                           Construction stage is

                    100,000          300,000                                          set to be 4 years and
 Ambient air                                      40,000 yuan/year     120,000 yuan
                   yuan/year           yuan                                            mid-term operation

                     50,000          150,000                                           stage calculates the
Water quality                                     40,000 yuan/year     120,000 yuan
                   yuan/year           yuan                                               first 3 years

   Total                600,000 yuan                        840,000 yuan



      Monitoring report system

    The monitoring report system is illustrated in Fig. 5.1-1. after each monitoring,

the monitoring unit shall submit a monitoring report to higher organizations in a

hierarchical manner. Jiangxi Provincial Expressways Administration shall submit

environmental monitoring plan to Jiangxi Provincial Environmental Protection

Agency once in every quarter during construction stage and once every half year

during operation stage.


         China National
          Environmental           Environmental protection
                                  office of Ministry of            World Bank
        Protection Agency         Communications




       Jiangxi Provincial            Jiangxi Provincial
          Environmental                Communication
        Protection Agency                Department




             Ganzhou                   Entrusted unit            Jiangxi Provincial Expressways
          Environemntal                                                   Administration
        Protection Bureau




                                       Environmental
                                       monitoring unit


                        Fig.5.1-1 Illustration of monitoring report system




                                                                                                      - 67 -

                        Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



5.2 Environmental standard threshold value

5.2.1 Water environment

      Surface water quality assessment along the route enforces the class III and IV

criteria of theSurface Water Environmental Quality Standard (GB3838-2002 ), of

which the Ganjiang River bridge section enforce class IV criteria and other water bodies

all enforce class III criteriairrigation water enforces classcriteria of Farmland

Irrigation Water Quality Standard  (GB5084-92 )  Sewage discharge from

management and service facilities along the route enforces class criteria of Sewage

Comprehensive Discharge Standard (GB8978-1996). Specific indexes refer to Table

5.2.1-1.

                        Table5.2.1-1 Waterqualityassessmentstandards(excerpt)

                Assessment standards                      pH       Hypermanganate     SS    Petroleum
                                                                    index(mg/L)      (mg/L)  (mg/L)
      GB3838-2002 "Surface Water
    Environmental Quality Standard"       Class          69            10            30*      0.5

      GB3838-2002 "Surface Water
    Environmental Quality Standard"       Class          69             6            30*     0.05

GB5084-92 "Farmland Irrigation Water
          Quality Standard"               Class        5.58.5          200#          150      5.0

   "Sewage Comprehensive Discharge
      Standard" (GB89781996)               Class         69            100#           70      5.0

Note"* "means that the figure is class  criteria of SL63-94Surface Water Quality Standard"#"
means that the figure is the COD index of related standard.

5.2.2 Acoustic environment

      According to investigation, the road mostly runs through rural areas which is not
classified in acoustic environmental functional zoning, the current acoustic
environmental assessment enforces the class 1 criteria ofUrban Ambient Noise

Standard(GB3096-93)for areas at both sides of National Road 323, the area within
50m from road boundary enforces class 4 criteria and area 50m from road boundary
enforces class 1 criteria. During construction stage, it is to enforce the Construction

Boundary Noise Level Limit (GB12523-90 ) (see Table 1.9.2-1)and during operation

stage, it is to enforce theNotice about Ambient Noise in Environmental Impact

Assessment in Construction Projects such as Highway, Railway (Including Light
Railway)environment2003No 94, that is, for the sensitive locations within the
assessment scope: areas 50m within the line of right-of-way enforce class 4 criteria,
areas 50m from the line of right-of-way enforce class 1 criteria; schools and hospitals
(sanatorium, gerocomium) and other sensitive buildings within assessment scope
enforce class 1 criteria.



- 68 -

                        Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



       The standard values are shown in Table 5.2.2-2.

     Table5.2.2-1 "ConstructionBoundaryNoiseLevelLimit"(GB12523-90)(excerpt)                   unitdB

 Construction stage                    Main noise source                            Noise limit value
                                                                              Daytime            Nighttime
 Earth/stone works              Bulldozer, excavator, loader, etc                75                  55
       Piling                            Various pilers                          85              forbidden
      Structure          Concrete mixer, vibrator and electric saw, etc          70                  55
     Decoration                      Crane and elevator, etc                     65                  55

Table5.2.2-2 Acousticenvironmentalassessmentstandardvalue duringoperationstage                      unitdB

            Class or sensitive objective                       Daytime                      Nighttime
            GB3096-93                    Class 1                 55                             45
 "Urban Ambient Noise Standard"          Class 4                 70                             55


5.2.3 Ambient air

       Ambient air quality standard

      Ambient air quality enforces class  criteria of "Ambient Air Quality Standard"

(GB3095-1996 ) (see Table 5.2.3-1 in which NO2 value is modified according to

Environmental Document [2000] No. 1).

       Pollutant discharge standard

      Bituminous smoke enforces "Air Pollutant Comprehensive Discharge Standard"

(GB16297-1996 ), see Table 5.2.3-2.

      Table5.2.3-1 "AmbientAirQualityStandard"(GB3095-1996)(excerpt)                       unitmg/m3

                Pollutant name                          NO2                  TSP                   CO
 Class  limit values of         Daily average           0.12                 0.30                   4.0
 GB3095-1996 "Ambient
                                1 hour average          0.24                  --                   10.0
  Air Quality Standard"

Table5.2.3-2 Bituminoussmoke (newpollutionsource)discharge standard(excerpt)                     unitmg/m3

             Pollutant name                                           Standard value
 "Air Pollutant Comprehensive Discharge     Bituminous smoke maximal allowable discharge concentration
      Standard" (GB16297-1996 )             Construction mixing75, melting, dipping40


5.2.4 Other standards

      The soil erosion assessment standards adopt the many years' average soil erosion

volume in areas the route passes as the reference, and classified according to Table 5.2.4-1.

                            Table5.2.4-1 Soilerosionstrengthclassificationindex
                       CLASS                                      EROSION MODULUS [t/(km2a)]
    tiny erosion(no obvious erosion)                                       <200, 500, 1000
    slight erosion                                                      (200, 500, 1,000)2,500
    median erosion                                                           2,5005,000
    intense erosion                                                          5,0008,000
    very intense erosion                                                    8,00015,000
    violent erosion                                                            > 15,000



                                                                                                        - 69 -

                        Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment




  6 Ability development and environmental protection
                                               training

        In order to strengthen the project organization's environmental managerial ability,

 it is planned to train relevant personnel with environmental protection, the following

 environmental protection training plan for the project is formulated (See Table 6-1).

                           Table6-1 Environmental protectiontraining plan
                                                                                                     Cost
No         Trainee              Training content              Time          Place         Size      (10,000
                                                                                                     yuan)
                          National environmental
                          protection regulations and
                                                         Within 2
    Environmental         standards, this project's main
                                                                                     45 persons,
1                         environmental questions,       months before
    protection                                                            Nanchang                    30
                                                         project                     15 days
    supervising engineer  environmental protection
                          supervising engineer's duty,   construction
                          use of noise monitoring
                          instrument, etc.
                          Study the advanced
                          environmental management       From half year
    Project               experience of foreign          to 12 months
    environmental                                                          Foreign   5    persons,
2                                                        after project
    management            countries, and apply the                         country  half month       15.56
                          knowledge learnt to the        starts
    personnel             environmental management       construction
                          of the project.
                          National environmental
                          protection regulations,
                          standards and this project's

    Contractors'          main environmental             Within 1
                                                                                     20 persons,
3   environmental         questions, environmental       month before     Nanchang                    10
    protection personnel  protection precautions and     project                     5 days
                          environmental measures         construction
                          during construction, duty of
                          environmental protection
                          staff member.
                          Relevant national
                          regulations and management                                 All tollgate
                          rules on hazardous cargo       Within 2
    Inspection personnel  transportation, rudimentary                                station staff

4                                                        months before               and    tunnel
    for hazardous cargo   knowledge of hazardous                          Nanchang                    7
                                                         project                     management
    transportation        cargo, vehicle declaration     operation
                          and inspection program,                                    station staff,
                                                                                     5 days
                          emergency plan, fire fighting
                          knowledge.




 - 70 -

                       Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment




        7 Implementation progress and cost estimation


7.1 Implementation progress for environmental protection measures

       The implementation progress for major environmental protection measures is

shown in Table 7.1-1.

             Table7.1-1 Implementationprogressformajorenvironmental protectionmeasures

                    2006                     2007                             2008                    2009
    Items
               Third Fourth     First  Second Third Fourth       First  Second Third Fourth       First Second
               quarter quarter quarter quarter quarter quarter quarter quarter quarter quarter quarter quarter
Removal and
    land
 acquisition
Environmental
  removal

Sound barrier

Sound-proofing
   window
   Sewage
  treatment
  facility in
 service area

  Planting

Environmental
 monitoring
 Training of
 supervising
  personnel
 Contractors'
environmental
  protection
  personnel
 Training of
environmental
 management
  personnel
 Training of
  accident
 emergency
    ability
Environmental
protection and
 management
   during
 construction
    stage
NoteEnvironmental protection and management during operation stage cover the whole operation stage of the
highway, including environmental monitoring, implementation of promised acoustic environmental protection
measures during the mid and long-term operation stages and maintenance of environmental projects.




                                                                                                         - 71 -

                       Word Bank Loan jiangxi Project No.3 environmental Assessment



7.2 Investment budget for environmental protection

      The environmental protection investment budget estimates for the environmental
protection measures proposed in this assessment are listed in Table 7.2-1. The
environmental protection investment needed by the proposed highway is about
73.39696 million yuan(including the water conservation investment), accounting for
1.27% of the total investment for the project.
                   Table7.2-1 Investmentbudgetofenvironmental protectionmeasures
      Environmental                                                            Amount
 No     protection      Measure description        Quantity        Unit cost    (10,000     Remarks
        measures                                                                 yuan)
                                                                                          Planning cost

       Planting and        Planting in 12 earth                                         for side slopes,

  1     vegetation      borrow pits, 24 waste      36places      100,000 yuan    360    separators and

       restoration      banks                                                           interchanges is
                                                                                        included into the
                                                                                        total project cost
                       Acoustic environmental
      Sound barrier    protection for sensitive   7900 linear     2500 yuan/     1975
                               location             meters       linear meters

                       Acoustic environmental         338            3000
  2   Sound-proofing
         window        protection for sensitive households/1725    yuan/each     517.5
                               location            windows         window
         Planting      Acoustic environmental
      noise-reduction  protection for sensitive     6 places                      80
        greenbelt              location

      Environmental   Construction campsite

      protection and  will set up septic tank,
                      garbage pit to clear and                                            Preliminarily
  3    management                                                300,000 yuan/
          during      deliver the garbage;       16 bid sections  bid section    480     calculated at 16

       construction   labor protection for                                                 bid sections

           stage      workers and water
                      sprinkling
         Sewage         sewage treatment for
  4     treatment      service area, parking lot      11           400,000       440
          facility       and tollgate station                     yuan/place

                            Cultural relics
  5   Cultural relics
        protection         reconnaissance,                                       120
                       excavation and tracing

                            Complete the                                                Monitoring cost

  6   Environmental                                                                      includes G323
       monitoring          environmental                                         144
                        monitoring planning                                             and construction
                                                                                          detour roads
      Environmental      See environmental
  7     protection       protection training                                     62.56
         training              planning
                      Careful Driving(yellow),

  8    Sign board     Hazardous Cargo Speed                          2000
                      Limit(red)and reminding         104         yuan/piece     20.8

                             board(blue)

  9    Contingency     10% in the above total
                                 sum                                           423.986

                                                                                        Not     including

 10       Water          As listed in "Water                                            those      already

       conservation     Conservation Plan"                                     2675.85  incorporated into
                                                                                        the main project
                                                                                        investment
 11                    Total                                                   7339.696




- 72 -

