                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR00001853



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-48300)



                                      ON A

                                     LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$200 MILLION


                                    TO THE

                        PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                     FOR A

                     THIRD JIANGXI HIGHWAY PROJECT



                                  June 29, 2011




China and Mongolia Sustainable Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

       (Exchange Rate Effective March 30, 2011)

             Currency Unit = RMB Yuan
               RMB1.00 = US$0.151
               US$1.00 = RMB 6.60

                   FISCAL YEAR
                January 1 – December 31



       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADT                 Average Daily Traffic
ARE                 Ruijin-Fujian border Expressway
BOT                 Build-Operate-Transfer
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CPS                 Country Partnership Strategy
EAP                 Environmental Action Plan
EIA                 Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP                 Environmental Management Plan
EIRR                Economic Rate of Return
ETC                 Electronic Toll Collection
E&M                 Electrical and Mechanical
FIRR                Financial Internal Rate of Return
FYP                 Five Year Plan
GDP                 Gross Domestic Products
HRI                 Highway Research Institute
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
IDF                 Institutional Development Fund
IEG                 Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)
ISP                 Institutional Strengthening Program
JPCD                Jiangxi Province Communications Department (later,
                     Renamed as JPTD)
JPH3                Third Jiangxi Highway Project
JPTD                Jiangxi Province Transportation Department
km                  Kilometer
LRIP                Local Roads Improvement Program
M&E                 Monitoring and Evaluation
MOC                 Ministry of Communications
MOT                 Ministry of Transport
MOF                 Ministry of Finance
NCB                 National Competitive Bidding
NEN                 National Expressway Network
NPV                 Net Present Value
NTHS                National Trunk Highway System
PAD                 Project Appraisal Document
PCU                      Passenger Car Unit (equivalent)
PDO                      Project Development Objectives
PMO                      Project Management Office
PPIAF                    Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
QAG                      Quality Assurance Group (in the World Bank)
RAP                      Resettlement Action Plan
RRPIP                    Rural Road Pavement Improvement Program
RGE                      Ruijin-Ganzhou Expressway
RMB                      Renminbi (Chinese Yuan)
VOC                      Vehicle Operating Costs
vpd                      Vehicles per day




              Vice President: James Adams, EAPVP
            Country Director: Klaus Rohland, EACCF
                              Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez, EASCS; and
            Sector Managers:
                              Narasimham Vijay Jagannathan, EASIN
        Project Team Leader: Fei Deng, EASIN
           ICR Team Leader: Fei Deng, EASIN
                                                   CHINA
                                        Third Jiangxi Highway Project



                                                      CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 3
3. Assessment of Outcomes ................................................................................................ 7
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 11
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 11
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 13
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 14
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 15
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 16
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 18
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 23
Annex 5. Environmental and Social Mitigation and Impact............................................. 25
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 36
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 37
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 46
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 47
MAP 34205
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Third Jiangxi Highway
Country:                China                   Project Name:
                                                                          Project
Project ID:             P093906                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-48300
ICR Date:               06/29/2011              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          PEOPLES REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          OF CHINA
Original Total
                        USD 200.0M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 189.7M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 195.0M
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
 Jiangxi Provincial Communications Department
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       04/12/2005     Effectiveness:             02/08/2007        02/08/2007
Appraisal:            01/03/2006     Restructuring(s):                            08/14/2009
Approval:             06/27/2006     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2010        12/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Highly Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower             Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Highly Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Highly Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Highly Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Roads and highways                                                    97                  97
Sub-national government administration                                 3                      3


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                33                  33
Injuries and non-communicable diseases                                17                  17
Rural services and infrastructure                                     17                  17
Trade facilitation and market access                                  33                  33

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            James W. Adams                       Jeffrey S. Gutman
Country Director:          Klaus Rohland                        David R. Dollar
Sector Manager:            Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez             Jitendra N. Bajpai
Project Team Leader:       Fei Deng                             Christopher R. Bennett
ICR Team Leader:           Fei Deng
ICR Primary Author:        Hernan Levy


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objective is to improve east-west passenger and freight flows in Jiangxi
province by investing in the construction of an expressway, enhancing local roads, and
strengthening highway management. (The description of the PDO in the Loan Document is
substantially the same as the PAD).




                                                ii
The objectives will be measured using the following outcome indicators:

  - in the Ruijin-Ganzhou corridor: (a) increased average daily traffic; (b) decreased accidents on
the existing road G323; and (c) decreased travel time from Ruijin to Ganzhou;

  - for the road sections of the Local Roads Improvement Program: (a) increased average daily
traffic; (b) reduced number of days closed; (c) reduced travel times; (d) increased bus services;
and

  - implementation of key recommendations from the institutional strengthening components with
regard to tunnel safety, roadside safety, and electronic toll collection.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

The objectives were not revised.




                                                iii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target      Formally      Actual Value
                                                 Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
  Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                    approval         Target       Completion or
                                                  documents)         Values       Target Years
                                 A. Ruijin-Ganzhou Expressway (RGE)
                   Average daily traffic in the RGE Expressway (passenger car equivalent,
Indicator 1
                                               PCU, per day per section)
                A-B Ruijin-Huichang                  14,000                             8,530
                B-C Huichang-Yudu                    15,000                             9,451
                C-D Yudu-Ganxian                     16,000                            11,180
                D-E Ganxian-Zhanggong                17,000                            11,972
Date achieved   12/31/2005                         12/31/2010                       10/31/2010
                Target will be achieved after the connecting ARE expressway opens end of 2011.
Comments        When the ARE opens, the RGE will connect directly with the expressways in
                Fujian province.
                Average daily traffic route G323 (passenger car equivalent, PCU, per day
Indicator 2
                per section)
                A-B Ruijin-Huichang
                7,321                                 4,000                             6,369
                B-C Huichang-Yudu
                11,011                                6,000                            13,383
                C-D Yudu-Ganxian
                10,137                                6,000                             9,890
                D-E Ganxian-Zhanggong
                12,164                                8,000                            16,150
Date achieved   12/31/2005                         12/31/2010                       12/31/2010
                Target likely to be achieved end 2011, when the full RGE will be in operation.
                This will increase diversion of G323 traffic to the RGE, further reducing G323
Comments
                traffic. Still, the objective of reducing congestion on the G323 has been largely
                achieved.
Indicator 3     Average accident rate/(fatal) route G323 (per 100,000,000 vehicle-kilometer)
                Ruijin           23.87/(2.01)       15/(0.83)                      28.79/(1.85)
                Huichang 34.80/(0)                  18/(1.11)                       4.45/(4.13)
                Yudu            14.89/(1.49)        11/(0.87)                       4.64/(2.45)
                Ganxian         19.50/(2.05)        13/(1.07)                       2.72/(0.98)
                Zhonggong 24.93/(1.25)               5/(0.52)                       9.29/(0.77)
Date achieved   12/31/2005                         12/31/2010                       12/31/2010
                Partially achieved, although large yearly variances in accident and fatality rates
Comments
                result in difficulties in data interpretation.
Indicator 4     Average travel time Ruijin-Ganzhou (minutes)
                              150                       75                               75
Date achieved   12/31/2005                         12/31/2010                        6/24/2011
                Will be achieved end-2011, when the ARE expressway is completed and the last
Comments
                9 km of the RGE, which are already built, are put in operation.



                                               iv
                         B. Local Road Improvement Program (LRIP)
                                    Chongyi-Fengzhou Road

Indicator 5     Average daily traffic (passenger car equivalent, PCU, per day)
                           1,299                   1,800                               2,588
Date achieved   12/31/2005                     12/31/2010                          12/31/2010
                Achieved. Actual traffic on the Chongyi-Fengzhou road has greatly exceeded the
Comments
                target.
Indicator 6     Number of days closed per year
                             88                     10                                   0
Date achieved   12/31/2005                     12/31/2010                          12/31/2010
                Achieved. No road closures are now taking place on the Chongyi-Fengzhou road,
Comments
                thanks to the project-financed improvements.
Indicator 7     Average travel time in road section (minutes)
                            180                     60                                  50
Date achieved   12/31/2005                     12/31/2010                          12/31/2010
Comment         Achieved.
Indicator 8     Daily bus service (buses per day)
                             18                     40                                  45
Date achieved   12/31/2005                     12/31/2010                          12/31/2010
Comments        Achieved.
                                           C. Institutional Strengthening
                                        Implementation of Key Recommendations
Indicator 9     JPCD adopts tunnel safety management plan
                     No tunnel safety
                                              Policy adopted                      Policy adopted
                     management plan
Date achieved   12/31/2005                     12/31/2010                          12/31/2010
                Achieved. International good practice incorporated and the management plan
Comments
                adopted in the province as standard of practice.
                Reduced accident rate/(fatalities) in the Expressway network in Jiangxi
Indicator 10    Province
                (per 100,000,000 vehicle-kilometers)
                        7.61/(0.37)                               6.15/(0.24)       5.98/(0.22)
Date achieved   12/31/2005                     12/31/2010                          12/31/2010
                Achieved. Detailed assessment conducted to identify risk factors in the
                expressway network in the province, practical measures proposed with
Comments
                international good practice incorporated, pilot tested under the Project, findings
                being disseminated to other provinces and EAP countries.
Indicator 11    Electronic toll collection (ETC) implemented by JPCD
                   No ETC in province         Policy adopted                      Policy adopted
Date achieved   12/31/2005                     12/31/2010                          12/31/2010
                Achieved. Role of the Bank project was limited to supporting work already
Comments        launched by the JPTD. Over 100 ETC expressway lanes are in operation in
                Jiangxi Province’s expressways.




                                                v
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                      Original Target                  Actual Value
                                                           Formally
                                        Values (from                    Achieved at
   Indicator      Baseline Value                           Revised
                                          approval                     Completion or
                                                         Target Values
                                         documents)                    Target Years
              Completion of 117 kilometers of the Ruijin-Ganzhou Expressway (Percent
  Indicator 1
              completed)
1A-Expressway                                100                           100
1-B Bridges                                  100                           100
1-C Tunnels                                  100                           100
1-D
Interconnecting                                        100                             100
Roads
1-E Interchanges
and at grade                                           100                             100
separation
Date achieved     12/31/2005                   12/31/2010                        April 1, 2009
                  Achieved. Full RGE built. A 9-km section to open end 2011. See comments for
Comment
                  Outcome Indicator 1.
  Indicator 2 Successful improvement of local roads in the Ganzhou City Prefecture
2-A Phase I                                      83.3 km                            48.5 km
Date achieved     12/31/2005                   12/31/2010                         12/31/2008
                  LRIP scope Phase I following project restructuring was reduced to Chongyi-
Comment
                  Fengzhou Road (48.5 km).
Indicator 3       Successful completion of institutional strengthening (studies and training)
3-A Tunnel safety                                 100%                        Completed
3-B Roadside
safety
                                                   100%                        Completed
3-C Electronic
Toll Collection
                                                   100%                        Completed
3-D Training
(domestic and                                      100%                        Completed
foreign)
                                                                                 Completed, but
3-Equipment                                        100%                          reduced (see Annex
                                                                                 2)
Date achieved      12/31/2005                      12/31/2010                         12/31/2010
                   All institutional strengthening activities were completed, some recommendations
Comment
                   have been implemented and others are being implemented.




                                                  vi
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                         Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                      IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                     (USD millions)
  1    12/04/2006        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    05/30/2007        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                     6.50
  3    10/25/2007        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                   24.13
  4    05/23/2008        Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory            95.26
  5    02/13/2009        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                  177.78
  6    05/20/2009        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                  189.67
  7    11/19/2009        Satisfactory          Satisfactory                  189.67


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Restructuring was approved by
                                                     the Board on August 14, 2009.
                                                     The main purpose of the
                                                     restructuring was to reduce the
                                                     scope of the Local Roads
                                                     Improvement Program (LRIP)
                                                     component in light of the
                                                     launching by the State
                                                     Government of a Rural Roads
 08/14/2009       N       S       S         189.67
                                                     Pavement Improvement
                                                     Program (RRPIP). Following
                                                     the reduction in the size of the
                                                     LRIP and Jiangxi Province’s
                                                     financial stress, the Bank
                                                     agreed to the Province’s request
                                                     to increase the disbursement
                                                     rate from 21 percent to 41
                                                     percent.




                                         vii
I. Disbursement Profile




                          viii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The Government of China is committed to developing an efficient multimodal transport system to
enhance competitiveness and promote development. Construction of the National Trunk Highway
System (NTHS), comprising 12 major expressways connecting all provincial capitals and main
cities is at the core of the system.

Jiangxi province, in south central China with a population of over 40 million, is one of the
lagging regions in China with 32 counties out of a total of 99 counties and cities in Jiangxi
identified as poor and. Ganzhou City Prefecture is the largest prefecture and has most of the poor
counties in the province. With a population of over 8 million, the prefecture has agricultural,
mineral and manufacturing industries. There is significant potential for growth in the mining
industries. Ganzhou City Prefecture is poorly served by local roads. Lack of transport
accessibility is one of the constraints to the social and economic development of the prefecture.
The Ruijin-Ganzhou Expressway (RGE), planned to link Guangzhou and the area east to an
expressway under construction in Fujian province, would provide a high quality transport link to
the coastal and international port at Xiamen (Fujian province).

The two previous Bank highway projects have helped Jiangxi Provincial Communications
Department (JPCD, later changed to JPTD) improve their operations in a number of key areas,
such as safety and road maintenance. However, more needs to be done, including further
improvement of planning and safety processes at the JPCD. The rationale for Bank assistance
lies on: (i) the critical importance of the NTHS’ east-west linkages for the development of
China’s lagging regions; (ii) the local roads will address the needs of the poor and disadvantaged
people within Ganzhou City Prefecture; and (iii) the project will build upon the institutional
strengthening from the Bank’s previous projects to assist JPCD manage the road network
effectively.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The objective of the project is to improve east-west passenger and freight flows in Jiangxi
province by investing in the construction of an expressway, enhancing local roads and
strengthening highway management.

Achievement of these objectives will be measured using the following outcome indicators:

       in the Ruijin-Ganzhou corridor: (a) increased average daily traffic, (b) decreased
        accidents on the existing road G323; and (c) decreased travel time from Ruijin to
        Ganzhou
       for the road sections of the Local Road Improvement Program: (a) increased average
        daily traffic; (b) reduced number of days closed; (c) reduced travel times; (d) increased
        bus services; and
       implementation of key recommendations from the institutional strengthening components
        with regard to tunnel safety, roadside safety and electronic toll collection.




                                                1
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification.

The PDO was not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The main beneficiaries of the project are:

       People and shippers, originating in Jiangxi province, in neighboring Fujian or in other
        provinces, traveling long distance along major routes such as Guangzhou-Beijing.
       Residents of Ganzhou City Prefecture, who will benefit from the improvement of a local
        road, which facilitates access to markets and social services.
       Users of Jiangxi’s main road network benefit from improved road safety in expressways
        and tunnels.
       JPCD gains from improved management of the road system.

1.5 Original Components

Component A: Ruijin-Ganzhou Expressway, RGE (US$627 million, including
contingencies).

Construction of the RGE in the southern part of Jiangxi Province, including: (a) construction of
about 117 kilometer of a divided, two-by-two lane, access controlled expressway between the
cities of Ganzhou and Ruijin, including bridges and tunnels; (b) supply and installation of
electrical, electronic, and mechanical equipment for toll collection, traffic monitoring, lighting
and emergency telecommunications facilities; and (c) construction of related toll stations,
interchanges, service areas, as well as facilities for highway administration and maintenance of
the expressway.

Component B: Local Roads Improvement Program, LRIP (US$74 million, including
contingencies).

Development and implementation of a Jiangxi Province Local Roads Improvement Program
(LRIP) to improve access in selected poor areas of the province, including: (a) rehabilitation and
upgrading of the Chongyi-Fengzhou Road (about 48.5 km) and the Meicun-Longbu Road (about
34.8 km); and (b) rehabilitation and upgrading of additional selected road sections.

Component C: Institutional Strengthening (US$10 million, including contingencies).

This component consisted of four technical assistance subcomponents, intended to (i) produce a
tunnel safety management plan, (ii) improve safety conditions on expressways, (iii) support the
implementation of electronic toll collection for expressways, and (iv) provide training and
equipment for expressway management, maintenance and environmental monitoring.




                                                 2
1.6 Revised Components

The board approved the restructuring of the project to reduce the scope of the Local Road
Improvement Program (LRIP) component and to make related adjustments in intermediate results
and indicators. One road section was canceled from Phase I of the LRIP, and the four road
sections originally planned under Phase II were reduced to one section. Subsequent to the
restructuring, the one road section selected under phase II was also canceled due to
misprocurement. The disbursement rate for the LRIP component increased from 25% to 41% as
a result of the project restructuring and the consequent reduction in the size of the LRIP program.

The main reason for project restructuring was the change in the investment focus of Ganzhou
prefecture to act upon the State directive (2006) to implement a significant Rural Roads Pavement
Improvement Program (RRPIP). The RRPIP program covered about 15,000 kilometers of rural
roads and was expected to link almost all villages of this prefecture by 2010 and serve about four
million villagers.

1.7 Other significant changes

The scope of the electronic toll collection study was modified to reflect an early start of ETC in
Jiangxi province, outside the project (see Section 3.2). The equipment component was
substantially reduced (see Section 3.2).

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Lessons Reflected in Project Design. The Bank’s extensive experience on numerous highway
projects in China and the corresponding lessons were incorporated into the project design. Among
them:

       The development plans of large urban centers should be incorporated early in the project
        design of national and provincial transportation links. The development plans of
        Ganzhou and Ruijin cities were incorporated early in the project design to ensure good
        linkages to the expressway and the alignment and some interchanges were adjusted
        accordingly.
       The preparatory activities greatly contribute to the project’s success. Early preparatory
        work, including land acquisition, resettlement, environmental impact and design studies
        contributed to project readiness.
       Ensure client ownership of institutional components. The proposed institutional
        strengthening component builds on the achievements of two previous Bank highway
        projects in Jiangxi Province, and the lessons of other highway projects in China.

Alternatives Considered. Analysis of the project components considered the following
alternatives:

       Linkage with Fujian Province. A 31-km expressway section linking Ruijin with the
        Fujian border was considered but was not included in the project. In the expectation that a




                                                 3
        BOT concession contract signed with Hong-Kong, based company to build this section
        would allow this section to be completed early and feed traffic to Jiangxi’s expressways.
       Scope of the LRIP. Expanding the scope of the LRIP to allow any local road in the
        province to be eligible was considered; however, it was decided to focus only on road
        sections located in Ganzhou City Prefecture.
       RGE Alignment Alternatives. The original RGE feasibility study considered a southern
        and a northern alignment. After further work, a combination of both alternatives was
        selected that minimizes the resettlement requirements and limits negative environmental
        impacts.

Jiangxi Government commitment was strong. It supported the objective and components as well
as provided adequate and timely funding for the preparatory activities. Stakeholders were
involved and their views are reflected in the design.

Quality at Entry was satisfactory with good compliance of safeguards requirements, technical and
economic analysis, and readiness for implementation. The project was not included in the
Quality Assurance Group’s sample of projects evaluated for quality at entry.

Risks

At appraisal, the only risk assessed as substantial was that the RGE might not attract or generate
sufficient traffic. This risk was mitigated through an independent review of the traffic model,
assurances that an appropriate toll rate would be set, confirmation that local government
development plans were integrated with the expressway planning to ensure adequate access, and
reviewing the plans for upgrading interconnecting roads before opening of the RGE.

The risk relating to the timely construction of the Ruijin-Fujian expressway (known as the ARE
expressway), with its related impact on traffic development until such construction is completed,
materialized. Given that the BOT contractor was already selected and in place at the time of
appraisal, the risk was expected to be related mainly to meeting safeguards requirements. In
practice, however, the BOT contractor failed to reach financial closure, leading to contract
cancellation. The protracted legal procedures until ARE expressway construction could be started
by JPTD, meant that the expressway was not completed on time. However, as discussed in
Section 3.3, the delay in completing the ARE expressway will not have a major impact on the
achievement of the PDO.

2.2 Implementation

The project was completed on time and the main component, the RGE, was completed ahead of
the original schedule. No mid-term review was carried out.

The key implementation issues and the actions taken to resolve them are discussed below.

Construction and opening of the RGE.
    Opening of the RGE to traffic required a temporary link with the Fujian expressway
       network until the Ruijin-Fujian Expressway was completed. A temporary road
       connection between the RGE and the national road G323 will be in place until the ARE
       opens at the end of 2011.
    Safety aspects needed improvement during implementation (For example, guardrails
       were not connected with bridges at various locations, fences along the expressways


                                                 4
        showed damage, interconnecting roads were unsafe, and signaling at ramps was
        insufficient. These problems were remedied following recommendations made by Bank
        supervision missions.

Failure of the BOT Scheme for the Ruijin-Fujian (ARE) Expressway. While this expressway
was not part of the project, its construction impacted the project because ARE is a vital link of the
RGE with the Fujian expressways and related connections with other NTHS expressways. JPCD
launched construction of the expressway under its own financing and execution, after rescinding
the BOT contract.

Implementation of the LRIP program and project restructuring. Problems with counterpart
financing, resulting from the Jiangxi RRIP program led to reducing the scope of the LRIP
component. Implementation was further complicated by the selection and later replacement by
Ganzhou local government, of LRIP roads (Meilin-Longbu replaced by Anyuan-Dingnan road,
and Chongyi-Longgou replaced by Xinjeng-Chijiang road, although the latter replacement was
too late for implementation within the project timeframe). Misprocurement by the Guangzhou
City Prefecture led to the cancellation of the Chongyi-Longgou (See Section 2.4). The Chongyi-
Fengzhou road improvements, completed in December 2008 (due to major flooding in July 2009
that caused the collapse of slopes and embankments) required significant repairs; these were
carried out in the second semester of 2009.

Delays in Starting the Institutional Strengthening Program (ISP). JPTD initially concentrated
its efforts on the implementation of RGE and made little progress with the ISP during the first
year of the project. Subsequently, the scope of issues relating to the various ISP activities were
addressed.

Project Cost. The final project cost, US$735.99 million, was 3.6 percent above the PAD estimate.
However, there were substantial variations within specific components. The cost of RGE was 14
percent higher than the appraisal cost (US$715 million actual, versus US$627 million at the
appraisal), because of: (i) an increase in the price steel and (ii) the devaluation of the dollar vis-à-
vis the Renmimbi, from RMB 8.07 per dollar at appraisal to RMB 6.60 per dollar at project
completion. The LRIP program was completed at 25 percent of appraisal estimate due to the
reduction of scope.

Risk status: The project was not rated as being at risk during implementation.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The M&E design was appropriate for the project and included relevant outcome and intermediate
indicators with baseline targets. In hindsight, the indicators for highway safety presented a
problem because of the normal variance from year to year in accident and fatality rates. These
indicators were also affected by the timing of the completion of physical and institutional
activities. (All outcome indicators were measurable, most of them using data regularly collected
by the JPTD, and the rest requiring simple monitoring at low cost.) The impact of road
improvement on reducing vehicle operating costs (VOC) was not included as an indicator,
because VOCs are obtained by simulation rather than by field measurement. However, vehicle
operating costs were estimated separately for economic analysis.




                                                   5
All indicators were monitored during project implementation and reported in the JPTD periodic
reports to the Bank. JPTD utilized indicators to assess project progress and to report to keep
provincial authorities informed of the results.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environment. The project was classified as Category A. The Environmental Impact Assessment
(EIA) and the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) were reviewed by the Bank at appraisal
and found to be satisfactory.

The project implementation adhered to the requirements specified in the EMP and also adopted a
number of innovative measures to mitigate environmental impacts (e.g., slope protection and
vegetation restoration, farmland protection and creation, ecology education, air pollution
prevention, water and land pollution prevention). Issues raised by supervision missions during
implementation, such as avoiding dust at work sites, schools and villages during the hot and dry
season, ensuring adequate ventilation in tunnels, protecting river banks from erosion caused by
temporary structures, were adequately resolved. The environmental protection practice under this
project was positively acknowledged by the provincial leaders and has been made the new
standard for all future Jiangxi expressway development. More details are presented in Annex 5.

Resettlement. The Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for the RGE was in line with relevant
Chinese laws, regulations and the World Bank Operational Policy 4.12 on Involuntary
Resettlement and was adhered to during implementation. Land acquisition and resettlement were
carried out without major issues. A special effort was made to reduce the amount of house
demolition. Compensation was paid in a timely manner; the total amount paid was higher than
anticipated, mainly because more land was reclassified as farmland than originally expected. The
table below summarizes RAP implementation. More details are in Annex 5.

Item                                                         Actual      Percentage of
                                                                         Appraised RAP
                                                                              (%)
Land acquisition (hectares)                                  853.3           102.1
House demolition (square meters)                            214,842           78.3
Number of people affected by land acquisition and            7599             97.1
resettlement
Total Compensation (US$ million, Cost Table)                  30.1            112.1

Extensive post-completion surveys1 showed people affected by resettlement improved their
standard of living. Persons affected by structure demolition have been relocated to newly built
houses. The average living area per household increased by 17 percent and the percentage of
good quality houses (brick and concrete) increased by 38 percent. Entire communities benefited
from the project through the improvement of village roads, irrigation systems, power supply and
water supply.



1
 Center for Involuntary Resettlement Research, Wuhan University. 2009. Resettlement Completion Report,
The World Bank Financed Jiangxi No3 Expressway Project.



                                                  6
Resettlement on the LRIP road was small, and was effectively carried out.

Fiduciary. The project had an adequate financial management system in place that ensured that
Bank loan proceeds were used for intended purposes. The implementing agency furnished the
annual audit reports in a timely manner. All audit reports were unqualified, reviewed and
considered acceptable by the Bank.

Procurement. In general, procurement was undertaken in accordance with Bank procurement
guidelines; there were, however, some procurement related issues. New contracts awarded by
JPTD under LRIP to repair road damages resulting from flooding and landslide and to account for
greening works associated with existing subgrade contracts were not eligible for Bank financing,
because the Bank had not been informed of these changes and Bank procurement guidelines had
not been followed. Award of a contract for construction of an LRIP road did not follow Bank
guidelines; the Bank declared misprocurement and cancelled US$5 million of the loan that had
been allocated for the road.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Upon opening to traffic, the operation and maintenance of the RGE was transferred to Ganzhou
Administration Division under Jiangxi High Class Highway Administration Bureau. A dedicated
Maintenance Management Unit for the RGE Maintenance Center was established in March 2009
and took over maintenance responsibilities in May 2009. This Unit comprises several
maintenance teams located near some of the interchanges and has the capacity to properly
manage the RGE. Maintenance of the LRIP Chongyi-Fengzhou road is the responsibility of the
Ganzhou city prefecture. JPTD is responsible for ensuring that improvements brought about by
the project’s institutional development component are sustained and their benefits are extended
beyond the initial applications.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The relevance of the project objectives remains high, and so is the rationale for Bank assistance
laid out at project appraisal. The government of China remains committed to the development of
a modern highway system. The National Trunk Highway System, of which RGE is a part, was
subsequently incorporated into the larger National Expressway Network (NEN). The NEN is
expected to be completed in 2020, when it will connect all provincial capitals and large cities of
more than 500,000 inhabitants with cities of more than 200,000 inhabitants.

The project objectives are consistent with the current Bank Country Partnership Strategy (CPS)
2006-2010, particularly in two areas: (i) reducing internal and external barriers to trade; and
(ii) reducing poverty, inequality and social exclusion through expanding access to basic social
and infrastructure services. China’s 12th Five Year Plan (2011-15) continues to emphasize the
importance of a balanced regional development that the 11 FYP highlighted through its emphasis
on mitigating social and economic disparities between coastal and inland regions.

The relevance of project design is high. The project components were well selected. The RGE
helps to better integrate Jiangxi Province, as well as provinces east and north of Jiangxi, with the
rest of China, and with sea ports, thus reducing barriers to trade. The LRIP program benefits one
of the poorest prefectures of Jiangxi Province, helping reduce poverty, inequality and social


                                                  7
exclusion. The institutional strengthening program helps to make the management of Jiangxi’s
road system safer and more efficient, thus improving the operation of the transport links.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project development objectives were satisfactorily achieved: (i) the RGE was well
constructed and opened to traffic; (ii) while a single road project was implemented under LRIP, a
large rural road development program in Ganzhou was undertaken by Jiangxi government,
substituting and greatly expanding the aims of the LRIP; and (iii) the institutional strengthening
program produced useful recommendations that have largely been put into practice and have
made a positive impact, including effecting transport policies.

Outcomes in the Ruijin-Ganzhou corridor

RGE, as a modern expressway, has dramatically improved east-west passenger and freight flows
in Jiangxi province. A section of RGE of 9 km has not yet opened, and is expected to become
operational by the end of 2011, when the connecting ARE expressway between Ruijin and the
Fujian border is completed. At Km 9, the RGE links up with national road G323 through a
temporary connection and joins the existing expressway there. A temporary main toll station has
been set up near KM 9 to enable the closed toll collection system to work.

Despite the delay in the ARE, the RGE has already greatly improved traffic conditions in its
corridor area, by providing a faster and safer to operate facility than the existing G323 national
road. When the ARE opens the travel time between Ganzhou and Ruijin will be reduced from 150
minutes on the G323 at appraisal, to 75 minutes. Travel time between Ganzhou and Fujian border
has already been greatly reduced. The delay in opening the 9 km of the RGE, will not, however,
have any significant negative impact on the project’s outcome, as the delay is short relative to the
life of the expressway, and traffic is moving well on a transitory basis through the G323 road.

Traffic safety on the G323 has improved overall, and most of the targets have been met. However,
the 2010 values (PDO Indicator 3) show significant difference in accident and fatality rates
depending on the G323 section. The large variance in these rates from year to year is likely due to
the randomness of major road accidents. Further diversion of G323 traffic to the RGE, upon
opening of the ARE, will likely result in a decline in traffic density and corresponding accident
rates.

Outcomes in the Local Road Improvement Program

The 48.5 kilometer long Chongyi-Fengzhou road generated greater than expected benefits.
Average daily traffic on this road in 2010 was 2,588 vpd in 2010, substantially surpassing the
1,800 vpd target. The number of days the road was closed reduced to zero in 2010 (versus a target
of 10 days); and travel time reduced to 50 minutes (versus a target of 60 minutes). The reduction
in the number of days closed and the lower travel time has led to a significant improvement in the
accessibility for the population and trade logistics for freight. Bus services improved, and the
frequency, at 45 buses per day, has exceeded the target of 40.

Due to the LRIP being reduced to only one road after the project was restructured, the overall
direct benefits from this program were lower than originally expected. However, the RRPIP
launched by the Jiangxi government covers close to 15,000 kilometers of rural roads, and had
objectives similar to those of the LRIP. As a result of this program, rural road accessibility in


                                                  8
Jiangxi is vastly greater than at the start of the project. Practically all roads considered during
implementation of JPH3 were included in the RRPIP rural roads program, and thus the expected
benefits from the improvement of such roads under JHH3 did materialize.

Outcomes of the Institutional Strengthening Program

All the activities of the institutional strengthening program – training, tunnel safety, traffic safety,
ETC, and equipment – were carried out and helped improve the management of the road system.

Training. The program comprised 172.4 man-months of training courses (150 domestic and 22.4
overseas) and 33.0 man-months of overseas tours and covered highway management, design and
planning, financial management, road maintenance, traffic engineering, resettlement, and
environmental protection. JPTD reports that the training program was successful and resulted in a
substantial improvement in the technical capacity of the agency. The trained staff played an
active role in the implementation of the project.

Tunnel safety. A systematic analysis of tunnel safety in Jiangxi Province was carried out,
including a survey of 81 tunnels and statistical analysis of all traffic and accident during 2004-
2008, and the review of international good practices. A Tunnel Safety Management Manual was
prepared, which includes recommendations on standards for: (i) visual distance inside tunnels;
(ii) control of ventilation, fire-fighting emergency capacity, and tunnel surveillance management;
(iii) safety training for engineering personnel, highway management staff, drivers and passengers;
and (iv) specific safety standards for very long tunnels. Some of these have been put in practice,
and the practice guide is being made the standard for all tunnel operation in the province.

Traffic safety on expressways. The study produced a traffic safety manual, whose
recommendations have been applied to RGE, and are being extended to other expressways in the
province. JPTD carried out a Stakeholder Seminar on the initial conclusions and
recommendations of two studies on tunnel and traffic safety and sought the views of over 40
participants on the recommendations and the research methodology.

Electronic toll collection (ETC). Soon after approval of the project, JPTD launched a program to
establish electronic toll collection (ETC) on the province’s expressways. The project’s ETC
activity was refocused to support the ongoing work. Bank staff reviewed the design and
implementation of the ETC program and offered recommendations, which were adopted in
Jiangxi ETC development policy. By completion of the JPH3, more than 100 ETC lanes were
established, covering over 3,000 kilometers of expressways. JPTD reports that the ETC has
reduced corruption in toll collection and has enhanced traffic efficiency, with its attendant effects
on reducing fuel consumption and pollution.

Two grants approved in parallel with, and supporting, JPH3, further helped strengthen the
institutional capacity of Jiangxi’s road sector. A grant was financed by the Public Private
Infrastructure Advisory Facility (PPIAF) focused on microenterprises for road maintenance
projects and resulted in the preparation of a compact disc with road maintenance data from
Ganzhou County, and technical and managerial manuals for routine maintenance teams and a
guide for implementing team-based routine maintenance. The other grant focused on HIV/AIDS
and covered over 20,000 construction workers and villagers, and led to a significant increase in
the awareness of HIV/AIDS; reduced stigmatization of attitudes towards HIV-infected people;
reduced risky behavior among non-marital relationships; and increased condom use amongst
construction personnel by 100 percent. More details on the outcome of the HIV/AIDS grant are in
Annex 5.


                                                   9
Equipment. Due to a new Customs policy that eliminated import duty exemptions for
internationally-financed goods, the portion of the loan to finance equipment was substantially
reduced and the required equipment is being purchased with local funds.

3.3 Efficiency

Project-financed investments (i.e., RGE and the LRIP road) are economically efficient, with an
overall economic internal rate of return (EIRR) of 14.4 percent, and an overall net present value
(NPV) of RMB 1,528 million. Both values are satisfactory.

The EIRR of RGE is 14.1 percent, close to the appraisal estimate of 14.2 percent. The EIRR of
the Chongyi - Fengzhou LRIP road is 32.3 percent, which is much higher than the appraisal
estimate (16.3 percent) due to the lower construction costs and higher traffic.

The appraisal financial evaluation of RGE estimated a Financial Internal Rate of Return (FIRR)
of 0.8 percent. Due mainly to lower than anticipated toll charges and the higher construction cost,
the FIRR at completion is estimated to be 0.3 percent.

The detailed economic and financial analysis is in Annex 3.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

The overall rating of the outcome is satisfactory, based on high relevance of objectives,
satisfactory achievement of PDOs, and relatively high efficiency.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The RGE and LRIP components had an impact on poverty alleviation: the RGE alignment
traverses several poor counties; the LRIP focused on the Ganzhou, a poor county, through the
project-financed road and through Jiangxi government’s Rural Roads Pavement Improvement
Program (RRPIP), improved the population’s access to jobs, markets and services. The
resettlement process followed during the RGE construction led to a significant improvement in
the livelihood of the people resettled, especially better quality and bigger homes, better access to
water and to roads, and more orchard farmland.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The preparation of tunnel and expressway safety manual greatly improved the capacity of JPTD
to deal with safety issues in those facilities, and implementation of their recommendations led to
improved traffic safety. The introduction of ETC province-wide has been another significant
improvement in the management of Jiangxi’s road network. The PPIAF-financed activity on road
maintenance by microenterprises has raised awareness of the potential for the use of
microenterprises in road maintenance.




                                                 10
More broadly, the training program covered a wide range of highway management subjects has
improved the capacity of JPTD staff to adopt more efficient methods in various areas of highway
management.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The very successful outcomes of the environmental, resettlement and HIV/AIDS activities under
the project went beyond what normally could have been expected from these activities. These
have been showcased in international conferences and were very well received.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Not applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Negligible to Low. JPTD is committed and has the capacity to allocate the necessary
resources, staff and funding, to ensure that that the physical and institutional improvements
resulting from the project remain in place. The sustained growth of the Chinese economy and the
corresponding high growth in road transport demand further ensure that there is little risk to the
project’s development outcome.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry was satisfactory. Project design benefited from
Bank experience with the preceding JPH2 project that was underway when the preparation of
JPH3 started. There was a useful continuity in staffing, as most of the Bank team involved with
the JPH3 project had also been involved with the JPH2.

The project design was appropriate. The physical components were anchored in a major
expressway of vital importance to Jiangxi province, complemented by a local roads program that
focused on a poor county. The institutional strengthening program was simple, with a focus on
road safety, a good choice given the fast growing road traffic in China and the high rate of road
accidents. Both the physical and the institutional components responded well to road sector issues
in Jiangxi Province. The M&E framework was similarly well conceived.

The Bank team placed detailed attention to environmental and social safeguards issues. Bank
reviews of the relevant documentation ensured that the documents (EIA, EMP, and RAP) met
Bank requirements, including public consultation. The team also ensured that the fiduciary
aspects – both financial management and procurement – were properly analyzed and adequate
measures were in place for compliance.

Project risks were identified at appraisal as were mitigation measures. Two issues encountered
during project implementation could not have been foreseen during project preparation: delay in
the construction of the ARE expressway, that delayed by one year the achievement of the full



                                                11
benefits of the RGE; and Jiangxi’s RRPIP program, which reduced the size of LRIP, was not
envisaged at the time of appraisal.

The second issue is Jiangxi’s RRPIP road improvement program, which led to restructuring of the
JPH3 to reduce the scope of the LRIP. The PAD notes that the LRIP was part of the five-year
highway improvement program of Ganzhou City Prefecture, and there was no information at the
time about the Jiangxi-wide RRPIP program.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

Supervision of the JPH3 consisted, on average, of two missions per year, plus short visits, as
required, by specialists residing in Beijing. The supervision team leader, who led the missions for
the first half of the implementation period, and most of the other team members, were involved
with the project since early project preparation. A new team leader who took over in mid-2008,
had already been exposed to the project as member of a supervision mission, and had the
advantage of being a Chinese speaker, thus facilitating communications with JPTD counterparts.

The Bank supervision team monitored project implementation closely, and provided detailed
recommendations in every aspect of the project, with a view to optimize project outcome. On
RGE, missions provided detailed recommendations, especially on safety. On LRIP, the mission
devoted considerable time to dealing with the project restructuring and to procurement issues. On
the institutional strengthening program, the missions provided detailed comments that resulted in
a substantial improvement in the initial orientation, scope and the method of analysis of the
various activities. The missions emphasized the need for the studies to produce practical
recommendations, and, to this end, recommended the conduct of a stakeholders’ seminar, which
was a well attended and highly successful event.

The supervision missions also supported the PPIAF-financed work on microenterprises for road
maintenance, helping to identify areas where work should be strengthened.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.

The satisfactory rating is based on the satisfactory quality at entry and the highly satisfactory
quality of supervision.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The central and Jiangxi provincial governments showed a great degree of commitment to the
project throughout the preparation to appraisal period. Jiangxi government provided counterpart
funding for the RGE as required, allowing this expressway to be implemented without delays and
opening ahead of time. Jiangxi government was also instrumental in the support given to
environmental protection by providing additional financing and made the World Bank project as
standard practice for all future expressway development in the province. Likewise, the
government showed great support in the HIV/AIDS program that required the involvement of
provincial health authorities.



                                                 12
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

The performance of JPTD was highly satisfactory. Its management and staff were dedicated to
the execution of RGE, and their early preparation and bidding process allowed the construction of
the RGE to be started in May 2007, just three months after the project loan was declared effective,
and to be completed six months ahead of schedule. As a result, the loan was disbursed faster than
envisaged at appraisal, which is exceptional in most infrastructure projects.

JPTD responded rapidly and effectively to observations by Bank supervision missions on the
construction of RGE. JPTD placed extraordinary attention on environmental concerns,
implementation of resettlement, and HIV/AIDS prevention work, leading to outstanding
performance in these areas (see Annex 5). JPTD also responded effectively to the supervision
missions’ recommendations on institutional strengthening activities.

In comparison, the implementing agency for the LRIP component, the Ganzhou City Prefecture
(GCP), was not very consistent in its performance and in one case it did not follow Bank
guidelines requiring the Bank to declare misprocurement and cancel that subcomponent. The
GCP was also erratic in the submission, and later replacement of candidate roads under the LRIP
component. Because of the autonomous nature of the GCP, JPTD had little control power over its
decisions. As LRIP accounts for only five percent of the entire loan amount, the poor
performance of GCP should not cloud the stellar work of JPTD in implementing the project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory.

Both Jiangxi government and the main implementing agency – JPTD went beyond their scope to
ensure that the highest standards were applied to the project in many aspects, including
engineering, environment and social impact mitigation, HIV/AIDS prevention. The only
substandard performance was on part of the implementing agency for the small LRIP component.

6. Lessons Learned

The benefits of technical assistance can be enhanced through the conduct of seminars. The well
attended seminars, where study objectives and recommendations were presented and discussed by
a large number of stakeholders, is likely to have a significant impact; first, by making those
responsible for implementing the recommendations get a good understanding of such
recommendations; and second, by extending the range of stakeholders, both direct and indirect,
who have a clear grasp of the study topics, their importance, and ways to improve performance.

Implementation of rural roads components requires close cooperation between provincial and
local government authorities. The problems experienced with the Ganzhou municipality in the
design and implementation of the LRIP component suggests that the provincial highway agency
does not have enough authority to ensure that the local government will comply with the
requirements of the project, especially as regards to procurement. The provincial government
would need to be involved, together with the provincial highway agency, to ensure that the local
government complies with such requirements.

Highway projects can, during implementation, generate important social benefits, through well
designed and implemented social policies. Employment is normally considered the prime benefit



                                               13
enjoyed by the population in the area during the construction of a highway or other civil works.
Experience with the RGE showed that substantial additional benefits can also occur, notably
better livelihood resulting from well designed and implemented resettlement and improved health
outcomes from the HIV/AIDS focused intervention with construction workers and residents.
Achieving such additional benefits requires well designed and implemented social policies.

A signed BOT contract may be an insufficient assurance that the intended works will be carried
out. The fact that the contractor for the ARE expressway failed to reach financial closure suggests
that a signed contract was insufficient assurance that the ARE would be implemented on time
through the negotiated BOT arrangement. When such BOT contracts are linked, but are not part
of a Bank project, to the extent possible it would desirable that financial closure is reached in the
BOT contract before approval of the Bank project.

PDO indicators shall be selected carefully to provide meaningful feedback on project
performance. In various highway projects, one of the PDO indicators is to reduce number
of accidents and fatalities over the monitoring period of the projects. However, there are
many factors behind the fluctuation of such indicators, and often resulted in difficulties in data
interpretation. Some apparent issues include (i) the reliability and accuracy of the data collected,
(ii) the statistic bias generated from small samples due to short period, short road sections or little
traffic, and (iii) the appropriateness of baseline and target values. Given the importance of
highway safety, similar indicators could be used when the above issues can be adequately dealt
with, for example, by enhancing information system for collecting and analyzing traffic accident
data, and using moving averages instead of yearly monitoring data.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

A summary of the borrower’s implementation completion report is attached in Annex 7. No
issues are raised in that report.

(b) Cofinanciers
Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
Not applicable




                                                  14
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                                    Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                                       Appraisal
                                                       millions)
    A. Ruijij-Ganzhou
         Expressway
-Civil works                                 455.65                605.01                 132.8
-E&M Facilities                               17.70                 20.06                 133.3
-Buildings, traffic facilities, greening      38.18                 48.21                 126.3
-Construction Sup. (domestic)                 11.32                 11.64                 102.8
-Construction Sup. (foreign)                   0.40                  0.00                  0.0
-Land acquisition and resettlement            26.88                 30.14                 112.1
Subtotal                                     550.13                715.06                130.0a/
    B. Local Road Improvement
         Program
-Civil works-Phase I                         35.58                  13.81                  0.39
-Civil works-Phase II                        25.00                   0.00                   0.0
-Construction Sup. (domestic)                 0.80                   0.51                  0.64
-Land acquisition and resettlement            5.28                   2.38                  0.45
Subtotal                                     66.60                  16.70                  0.25
    C. Institutional Strengthening
-Studies                                       0.55                 0.46                   0.84
-Training                                      1.06                 0.76                   0.72
-Equipment                                     8.76                 3.44                   0.39
Subtotal                                      10.37                 4.62                   0.45
Total Baseline Cost                          627.16                736.38                 117.4
Physical Contingencies                        70.06                 0.00                    0.0
Price Contingencies                           13.67                 0.00                    0.0
Total Project Cost                           710.89                736.38                 103.6
Front-end Fee                                  0.50                 0.50                  100.0
Total                                        711.39                736.99                 103.6

a/ Including contingencies, the estimated PAD cost of the RGE was US$627 million, which would result in
14 percent increase in the actual versus PAD cost, compared to the 30 percent shown in the table when no
contingencies are included in the PAD cost.

(b) Financing
                                                           Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                             Type of       Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
            Source of Funds
                                           Cofinancing      (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                           millions)   millions)
 Borrower                                                   511.39       512        100%
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                             200.00           189.7           95%
and Development




                                                  15
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component                    Output                 Comments
                              PHYSICAL COMPONENTS
                   Construction of Ruijin-Ganzhou Expressway (RGE)

RGE Expressway                117.1 km, 4-lane, access-   Opened to traffic in April 2009. The
                              controlled expressway       first 9 km are not opened to traffic
                                                          since connection section Ailing-Ruijin
                                                          expressway still under construction.
                                                          At Km 9, the RGE connects with
                                                          national road G323, which crosses the
                                                          RGE with an overpass, but a
                                                          temporary connection between both
                                                          roads has been made. A temporary
                                                          main toll station has been set up near
                                                          this location, so that the closed toll
                                                          collection system can work. The
                                                          connecting, 31 km Ailing-Ruijin
                                                          expressway (ARE) is under
                                                          construction, and expected to be
                                                          completed in Dec 2011.
       interchanges                       6              Completed, and all interchanges are
                                                          operational.
       toll stations                      6              Completed. One additional, temporary
                                                          toll station was set up due to the ARE
                                                          delay.
       service areas                      2              Completed, all services are
                                                          operational
       maintenance center                 1              Completed and operational
       surveillance center                1              Completed and operational

                        Local Road Improvement Program (LRIP)

Chongyi-Fengzhou road                    39 km            Completed in December 2008.
                                                          However due major floods in July
                                                          2009, some of the road improvements
                                                          needed to be repaired during 2009.
                                                          Work consisted of improvement to
                                                          Class III, 9 meters wide with 6 meters
                                                          paved.
Other LRIP roads              See Comments                Several other roads originally
                                                          considered for the LRIP program were
                                                          carried out with local finance from
                                                          Jiangxi province. See Sections 2.2 and
                                                          3.2 of this ICR.




                                                 16
                                INSTITUTIONAL COMPONENT
                                      Capacity Building
        Component                            Output                       Comments

Training                         Domestic: 150 man-months    Main areas covered included
                                                             resettlement, environmental
                                                             protection, financial management,
                                                             road safety
                                 Overseas:                   Overseas training started in 2009 and
                                                             completed at the end of 2010
                                 Training 22.4 man-months
                                 Study tours: 33.0 man-
                                 months
                                               Studies

Traffic Safety Operations for    Tunnel Safety Operational   A tunnel management study is being
Tunnels                          Manual                      prepared based on the study.
Traffic Safety Improvement       Study completed             Recommendations on roadside safety
for Expressways                                              hazard management are already
                                                             implemented in the RGE expressway
Implementation of Electronic     More than 100 ETC lanes     An additional 100 lanes are expected
Toll Collection (ETC)            currently in operation in   to become ETC-operational by 2012.
                                 Jiangxi province
                                 expressways

                                             Equipment

Equipment for expressway                See Comment          At JPTD’s request, this part of the
management and                                               project was canceled (except for a
maintenance and                                              minor amount). The equipment is
environmental monitoring                                     being financed with local funding.




                                                      17
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Appraisal Economic Analysis

The economic analysis of the project done at appraisal covered the following two project
components: (i) construction of the 117 km Ruijin – Ganzhou Expressway (RGE); and
(ii) upgrading of the Chongyi – Fengzhou road (48.5 km) under the first phase of the Local Roads
Improvement Program (LRIP)2. Project benefits comprised of savings in vehicle operating costs,
travel time savings, and reduction in accident costs. The overall Economic Internal Rate of Return
(EIRR) of the project (including RGE and the LRIP road) was estimated at appraisal to be 14.2
percent with a Net Present Value, at 12 percent discount rate, of RMB 1,275 million. They are
summarized in the table below:

                                    Appraisal Summary of Economic Evaluation Results
                                                                  EIRR           NPV
                                                                   (%)       (RMB Million)
                          Ruijin - Ganzhou Expressway              14.2          1,220
                          Chongyi -Fengzhou Road                   16.2            55
                          Total Project                            14.2          1,275


Ex-Post Economic Analysis

The ex-post economic analysis covers RGE construction and the improvement of the Chongyi –
Fengzhou local road under the LRIP program, using the same economic evaluation methodology
applied at appraisal. The analysis considers that full benefits start to accrue in 2010 for twenty
years and uses a 12 percent discount rate. The ex-post economic analysis was done updating the
main inputs of the model to reflect current status: (i) actual construction costs; (ii) actual
construction cost distribution; (iii) actual traffic; and (iv) revised traffic growth rates.

Ruijin – Ganzhou Expressway

For the economic analysis, RGE was divided into three sections function of terrain, condition and
traffic. The table below shows the existing road and new expressway lengths for each section,
indicating that on the Ruijin – Yudu and Yudu – Ganxian sections there is positive distance
savings, while the Ganxian – Ganzhou section there is negative distance savings. The overall
distance savings of the RGE is 16 percent.




2
  The Meicun – Longbu LRIP road (34.8 km) was also evaluated at appraisal, but this road was removed from the
project; thus it was not include on the ex-post evaluation.




                                                         18
                                             RGE Road Sections Length
                                        Length Expressway        Length Exiting Road        Distance
              Section                          (km)                     (km)               Savings (%)
              Ruijin - Yudu                    58.6                     72.0                  19%
              Yudu - Ganxian                   39.3                     50.0                  21%
              Ganxian - Ganzhou                19.1                     18.0                  -6%
              Total                           117.0                     140.0                 16%


RGE construction cost estimated at appraisal was RMB 5,060 million; however the actual
construction cost increased to RMB 5,220 million, representing a 3 percent increase in
construction costs compared with the appraisal estimates. The table below shows the actual
construction costs per road section that range from 35.5 to 49.0 Million RMB per km. The actual
overall construction cost per km is 44.6 Million RMB per km. The difference in construction
costs per km is explained by the terrain type. The Ruijin – Yudu section is on a mountainous
terrain, the Yudu – Ganxian sections is on a hilly terrain and the Ganxian – Ganzhou section on a
flat terrain.

                                    RGE Road Sections Construction Costs per km
                                   Appraisal Estimates                     Actual Costs
                             Total Cost        Cost per km       Total Cost        Cost per km       Difference
                              (Million           (Million         (Million           (Million
      Section                  RMB)             RMB/km)            RMB)             RMB/km)              (%)
      Ruijin - Yudu            2,799               47.8             2,887               49.3             3%
      Yudu - Ganxian           1,354               34.5             1,397               35.5             3%
      Ganxian - Ganzhou         907                47.5              935                49.0             3%
      Total                    5,060               43.2             5,220               44.6             3%


The appraisal analysis considered a construction period of four years (2006 to 2009), with 20, 30,
30 and 20 percent of expenditures occurring in 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009 respectively. However,
the actual construction expenditures were distributed between 2007 and 2009, with 40 percent of
the expenditures accruing in 2007, 50 percent in 2008 and 10 percent in 2009, as shown below:

                                  RGE Road Sections Construction Costs Distribution
                                    Appraisal Estimates                   Actual Costs
                                 Construction          Percent      Construction         Percent
                     Year     Cost (Million RMB)         (%)     Cost (Million RMB)        (%)
                     2006            1,012               20%              0                0%
                     2007            1,518               30%            2,088              40%
                     2008            1,518               30%            2,610              50%
                     2009            1,012               20%             522               10%
                     Total           5,060              100%            5,220             100%


RGE was open to traffic in April 2009 and in 2010 it had an Average Annual Daily Traffic
(AADT), between 6,993 and 9,229 vehicles per day, however the full traffic potential of the
expressway will only materialize when the RGE linkage with the Ruijin-Fujian Expressway
(ARE) is completed at the end of 2011. The table below shows the RGE 2010 and 2011 traffic
estimated at appraisal, the 2009 and 2010 actual traffic, and the ICR 2011 estimated traffic
considering that the linkage to the ARE is completed. In 2011, it is estimated that the actual
traffic will be around 16 percent less than the one estimated at appraisal. The reduction in traffic
is similar on the Yudu – Ganxian and Ganxian – Ganzhou sections (around 12 percent), but is
higher on the Ruijin – Yudu section (20 percent).



                                                        19
                                               RGE Road Sections Traffic
                                 Appraisal Estimate                        Actual                           2011
                                 2010          2011         2009           2010               2011
                                Traffic       Traffic      Traffic        Traffic           Traffic*      Difference
        Section                (AADT)        (AADT)       (AADT)         (AADT)             (AADT)           (%)
        Ruijin - Yudu           10,300        10,897       3,597          6,993              8,741          -20%
        Yudu - Ganxian          11,700        12,379       3,983          8,699              10,874         -12%
        Ganxian - Ganzhou       12,600        13,331       4,278          9,229              11,536         -13%
        Total                   11,200        11,850       3,855          7,966              9,958          -16%
        * ICR estimate


The annual traffic growth projections adopted at appraisal and the ex-post evaluation are given in
the table below. On average for all vehicles, the appraisal evaluation considered an annual traffic
growth of 7.9 percent from 2005 to 2009, 5.7 percent from 2010 to 2020 and 3.8 percent from
2021 to 2030. However, the actual annual traffic growth rate on the RGE corridor from 2005 to
2009 was 16.6 percent (the GDP in China grew at 11 percent per year during this period). Thus,
for the ex-post economic evaluation, the projected average traffic growth rate from 2010 to 2015
was increased from 5.8 to 8.0 percent, considering conservatively that the economic growth on
the area of influence of the RGE from 2010 to 2015 will be at least more than around half the
economic growth found from 2005 to 2009.

                                           RGE Annual Traffic Growth Rate
                                    Period                  Car     Bus & Truck             Average
                     Appraisal      2005-2009                8.1         7.5                  7.9
                                    2010-2015                6.1         5.2                  5.8
                                    2016-2020                6.1         5.2                  5.8
                                    2021-2030                4.2         3.2                  3.8
                     ICR            2005-2009 Actual                                         16.6
                                    2010-2015                8.2         7.7                  8.0
                                    2016-2020                6.1         5.2                  5.8
                                    2021-2030                4.2         3.2                  3.8


The actual 2010 traffic composition on the RGE is given in the table below. The majority of the
traffic is composed of passenger cars (66 percent), while buses account for 8 percent of the traffic
and trucks for the remainder 26 percent, which is similar to the traffic composition of the actual
remaining traffic on the existing road in 2010. In contrast, the traffic composition on the existing
road in 2005 was composed of 52, 15, and 33 percent cars, buses and trucks respectively; thus on
the RGE corridor, from 2005 to 2010, there has been an increase in the percentage of cars from
52 to 66 percent of the vehicle fleet.

                                           RGE Traffic Composition in 2010
                                          Medium Large Small Medium                 Large      Trailer/
           Section                Car       Bus      Bus   Truck       Truck        Truck     Container    Total
           Ruijin - Yudu         4,605      193      372   1,221        136          357        109        6,993
           Yudu - Ganxian        5,700      246      484   1,513        173          440        143        8,699
           Ganxian - Ganzhou     5,962      287      535   1,604        190          470        181        9,229


The table below presents RGE ex-post economic analysis results. They show that the actual EIRR
of RGE construction is 14.1 percent, which is similar to the appraisal estimate (14.2 percent). The
lower benefits obtained from the lower than expected actual traffic on the expressway in 2011 (16
percent lower than appraisal estimates) and the slightly higher construction costs (3 percent
higher than appraisal estimates) were compensated with the higher forecasted traffic growth


                                                         20
between 2010 and 2015. Considering only the actual project costs, the project EIRR would have
been 14.1 percent and considering only the actual project costs and the actual traffic in 2011, the
project EIRR would have been 13.3 percent. The ex-post total EIRR (14.1 percent) is higher than
the economic viability threshold of an EIRR of 12 percent; therefore, the economic justification
of the RGE is satisfactory.

                                       RGE Economic Internal Rate of Return (%)
                                                              Appraisal      Ex-Post
                                Section                       Estimate        Result
                                Ruijin - Yudu                    13.6          13.4
                                Yudu - Ganxian                   16.5          17.1
                                Ganxian - Ganzhou                 9.9          10.1
                                Total project                    14.2          14.1


The financial evaluation of RGE done at appraisal showed that the expected Financial Internal
Rate of Return (FIRR) was 0.8 percent with NPV of RMB -2,626 million at a the financial
discount rate of 5.13 percent. These indicators were computed considering toll charges at opening
of the expressway of RMB 0.40, 0.80, 1.15 and 1.50 per vehicle-km for small vehicle, medium
vehicle, large vehicle and heavy vehicle respectively. The actual toll rates are RMB 0.4 per
vehicle-km for small vehicles and RMB 0.8 per vehicle-km for the remainder vehicles.
Considering these toll charges, the higher actual construction costs and the actual traffic
projections on the expressway, the ex-post FIRR is 0.3 percent with an NPV of RMB -2,173
million.

Chongyi-Fengzhou Road

The table below presents the appraisal estimates and the actual construction costs of the Chongyi
- Fengzhou LRIP road, which was improved from Class IV to Class III over a two year
construction period. The actual construction costs per km is RMB 2.38 million per km that is 39
percent lower than what estimated at appraisal. The actual 2010 traffic is 2,088 vehicles per day,
composed of 73 percent cars, 5 percent buses and 22 percent trucks, which is 42 percent higher
than the appraisal estimate (1,466 vehicles per day).

                                          Chongyi - Fengzhou LRIP Road
                                 Length   Construction Cost  Construction Cost         Traffic in
                                                                                         2010
                                  (km)      (Million RMB)     (Million RMB/km)         (AADT)
                   Appraisal      48.5           188.3               3.88                1,466
                   Estimates
                   Actual        38.30           91.2                2.38                2,088
                   Values
                   Difference                                        -39%                42%


The Chongyi - Fengzhou LRIP road ex-post EIRR is 32.3 percent, which is higher than the
appraisal estimate (16.3 percent) due to the lower actual construction costs and higher actual
traffic. The ex-post EIRR is much higher than the economic viability threshold of an EIRR of 12
percent; therefore, the economic justification of the LRIP road is high.

                                      Chongyi - Fengzhou LRIP Road EIRR (%)
                                                             Appraisal   Ex-Post
                                 Section                      Estimate   Result
                                 Chongyi - Fengzhou             16.2      32.3




                                                        21
Overall Economic Analysis

The overall ex-post EIRR of the project, including the RGE construction and the LRIP road, is
14.4 percent and the overall NPV is RMB 1,528 million, which is satisfactory considering the
economic viability threshold of an EIRR of 12 percent.




                                              22
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                   Responsibility/
            Names                        Title            Unit
                                                                     Specialty
Lending
                                                                 Administrative
Rose Abena Ampadu        Program Assistant               AFCW1
                                                                 Support
Christopher R. Bennett   Sr. Transport Specialist        EASNS Task Team Leader
                                                                 Highway
Jean-Marie Braun         Consultant                       ECSS5
                                                                 Engineering
                                                                 Transport
Robin C. Carruthers      Consultant                      AFTTR
                                                                 Economics
Boping Gao               Consultant                       EASIN Transport Engineer
                                                                 Transport
Imogene B. Jensen        Sector Leader                    EASIN
                                                                 Engineering
                                                                 Transport
Henry G. R. Kerali       Sector Manager                   ECSS5
                                                                 Engineering
                                                                 Transport
Alberto F. Nogales       Consultant                      AFTSN
                                                                 Engineering
Anil H. Somani           Consultant                      EASNS Environment
Hongkun Yang             Consultant                      EASCS Procurement
                                                         EASTE - Economic/Financial
Han-Kang Yen             Research Analyst
                                                           HIS Analysis
                                                                 Resettlement
Youlan Zou               Consultant                      EASCS
                                                                 Specialist
Supervision/ICR
                                                                 Former Task Team
Christopher R. Bennett   Sr. Transport Specialist        EASNS
                                                                 Leader
                                                                 Highway
Jean-Marie Braun         Consultant                      ECSS5
                                                                 Engineering
Wenling Chen             Consultant                      AFTTR   Technical Support
                                                                 Task Team
Fei Deng                 Sr. Transport Specialist        EASIN   Leader/Engineering
                                                                 /Institutional
Emily Dubin              Junior Professional Associate   EASIN   Technical Support
Yiren Feng               Environmental Specialist        EASCS   Environment
                         Sr. Financial Management                Financial
Yi Geng                                                  EAPFM
                         Specialist                              Management
                                                                 Administrative
Maria Luisa Juico        Program Assistant               EASIN
                                                                 Support
Hernan Levy              Consultant                      EASIN   ICR preparation
                         Senior Social Development               Social
Zhefu Liu                                                EASCS
                         Specialist                              Development
Anil H. Somani           Consultant                      EASNS   Environment


                                          23
Haiyan Wang               Senior Finance Officer              CTRDM Disbursement
Hongkun Yang              Consultant                          EASCS Procurement
Dawei Yang                Consultant                          EASTS Procurement
Xiaoke Zhai               Transport Specialist                EASCS Highway Engineer
                                                                    Financial
Qi Zhu                    Consultant                          EAPFM
                                                                    Management


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                        USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                              travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                          13.4                      89.4
  FY06                                          33.5                     236.7
                          Total:                46.9                     326.1
Supervision/ICR
  FY07                                          10.3                      87.8
  FY08                                           8.7                      61.9
  FY09                                           9.1                      79.5
  FY10                                           8.5                      47.1
                          Total:                36.6                     276.3




                                           24
Annex 5. Environmental and Social Mitigation and Impact3

This Annex covers three topics: Environment, Resettlement and HIV/AIDS.

Environment

The preparation of Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Report and Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) for the RGE started in December 2004 and the final version of the EMP
completed in January 2006.

With 57 villages/townships and nine schools located along the project route, the JPTD made
significant efforts to reduce the negative environmental impact of the project. This was achieved
during implementation and damage to the surrounding communities was reduced to a minimum.

The following are examples of some of the most successful measures.

Slope Protection and Vegetation Restoration. Slope protection and vegetation restoration were
paid special attention due to the special geological situation of the project. The RGE passes
through mountainous areas, therefore some high-cut slopes were inevitable in its alignment. The
consequent loss of vegetation combined with high volume rainfall during summer made it likely
that serious landslides could happen creating dangerous conditions for the route. Hence, it was
necessary to stabilize newly formed slopes and borrow pits with sound engineering measures, and
rehabilitate these ecologically weak areas with vegetation, e.g. grass, trees, shrubs, and bushes. In
order to find out the optimal cover, the JPTD created test beds on slopes to test the impact of
various kinds of vegetation, and selected the most suitable ones for the local climate and
condition. For vegetation restoration, spreading a large amount of grass seeds on uncovered
ground was found to be an efficient approach. Plastic cloth was used to temporarily cover the
ground to prevent soil erosion if the vegetation was not fully restored by the wet season. The
JPTD provided additional financial support to the project to cover the extra cost.

Farmland Protection. To protect farmland in the vicinity of the expressway, the excavation of
borrow pits and disposal of construction waste was closely monitored throughout the construction
process. Wherever borrow pits were necessary and unavoidable to dig, ecological restoration was
followed up promptly. Also, when excavating the acquired cultivated land, a 30 cm deep layer of
topsoil was retained for use in reclaiming and rehabilitating cultivated land areas. In addition to
the above protection activities, the JPTD also provided funding support to redevelop farmland
wherever feasible. The land was then transferred free of charge to the affected villagers along the




3 This annex is based on the following sources
(i) Deng, Fei and Wang, Peng, 2009. World Bank Financed Jiangxi Expressway IIIProject – Successful Experience in Environmental
and Social Impact Mitigation. World Bank, East Asia and Pacific Region, Sustainable Development Department.
(ii) Wuhan University, Center for Involuntary Resettlement Research, 2009. Resettlement Completion Report, The World Bank
Financed Jiangxi 3 Expressway project.
(iii) Chen Chong, 2009. Report on Progress Review of HIV/AIDS Education Program Under Jiangxi Highway Project III




                                                              25
expressway. Upon completion of the project, the redeveloped farmland had reached 150 mu (10
ha).




    Slope Protection                  Vegetation Restoration      Newly Reclaimed Land
                                                                  Formed by Earth Filling

Educational Campaign. Educational campaigns focusing on ecological preservation were carried
out for a target audience including the project management team, construction workers, and other
relevant project stakeholders. The purpose of these campaigns was to increase the people’s
awareness for ecological protection and to encourage them to comply with the requirements for
environmental impact mitigation. Specially designed publicity posters and other educational
materials were widely distributed and posted at clearly visible locations across construction sites
and worker camps.

Air Pollution Prevention. To prevent construction dust from polluting the air of the surrounding
communities, the project required that all construction sites, concrete mixing plants, and materials
storage yards were kept at least 300 meters away from major residences, hospitals and schools,
where children, senior people, and patients reside. All construction material storage sites were
equipped with sprinkler systems to prevent flying dust.

Water and Land Pollution Prevention. Discharge of sanitary sewage from 12 construction camps,
as well as surface runoff from bridge construction, storage areas, mixing plants, were likely to
significantly pollute water streams. During project implementation, differentiated wastewater
treatment standard levels and techniques were applied to different water sources. Discharging
untreated wastewater directly into rivers or reservoirs was strictly prohibited and subject to fine.
At bridge construction sites, where water pollution was often identified as a problem due to lack
of sufficient protection, temporary dams were built on the river to prevent construction
wastewater flowing into the water. On the river banks, construction materials were kept more
than 100 meters away from water. In addition, temporary separation walls were built to separate
road building materials from nearby farmland to avoid land contamination. Plastic cloth was
widely used to cover the embankments.




Temporary dam dividing waste      Clean river near bridge           Plastic film covered embankment
water and river                   construction Site



                                                 26
Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Development. A series of training courses on
environmental protection were provided to project management personnel to strengthen their
capacity in environmental protection and impact mitigation. In February 2007, the Project Office
offered training to the environmental and engineering staff from the Project Office, General
Supervision Engineer’s office, Resident Engineer’s office, and the Contractor’s office. Around 70
people attended the training. The results proved to be fruitful – the project team’s awareness was
raised, good practices were shared, and their environmental protection technical expertise was
strengthened.

Feedback from the Project Stakeholders. Surveys were conducted of the following three groups:
project contractors, construction workers, and affected communities. The purpose was to
understand the stakeholder groups’ attitudes towards the aforementioned environmental
protection measures and to evaluate the effectiveness of these efforts. The feedback from the
stakeholders is summarized in the following table:

                  Stakeholders’ Reponses on Environmental Protection Measures
Stakeholder Type               Responses
1. Project Contractors         The environmental protection measures were necessary and effective.
                               After training, they had taken on a variety of protection measures on their
                               construction sites.
2. Construction Workers        Workers encountered one or more problems during the road construction,
                               such as noise, flying dust, tunnel air pollution, etc. Workers adopted
                               protective measures, which they believed were “effective” or “largely
                               effective”.
3. Affected Communities        The survey results indicated that (1) the affected communities
                               acknowledge the project team’s efforts to minimize negative
                               environmental impacts to acceptable level (2) all the villagers interviewed
                               rated the environmental protection “satisfied” or “largely satisfied”.


Resettlement and Livelihood Rehabilitation

The data and analysis in this Annex is based on the Resettlement Implementation Report prepared
by the Center for Involuntary Resettlement Research, Wuhan University in August, 2009. This
center acted as the Resettlement Independent Monitoring Organization.

Land acquisition and resettlement for the construction of the RGE was carried out in accordance
with the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). Key indicators of the resettlement, comparing RAP
estimates with actual values are shown in the table below:

                          Item                              Actual         RAP         Actual/RAP (%)
Land acquisition (hectares)                                 853.3          835.7            102.1
Farmland included (hectares)                               348.6           303.7             114.8
House demolition (square meters)                           214,842        274,370             78.3
Number of villages affected by land acquisition              66             63               104.8
Number of people affected by land acquisition and           7599           7826               97.1
resettlement
Number of households affected by land acquisition and        1652           1714              96.4
resettlement
Total Compensation (US$ million, Cost Table)                 30.14          26.88            112.1



                                                  27
Estimated and actual resettlement impacts. Overall, there were little differences between the
RAP and the actual values. The most significant discrepancies occurred for: (a) farmland, where
actual farmland taken over by the resettlement process was about 15 percent higher than expected,
although overall land acquisition was close to the original RAP estimate. The differences
regarding farmland stem from changes in the classification of the various types of land, the actual
values classifying some lands originally taken as dry and forest lands as farmland, mainly
because some of the forest lands are used for planting of fruit trees (see table below), (b) house
demolition, which was 21.7 percent less than expected in the RAP, was reduced thanks to a
number of actions taken during resettlement, such as the elimination of a parking area in Maodian
town and the redesign of the Yudu service area, to minimize house demolition, and
(c) compensation, which turned out to be higher than expected, mainly as a result of the
reclassification of more land as farmland.

          Item                 Unit          Actual amount         Survey amount in the
                                                                  Resettlement Action Plan   Actual to plan
                                                                                                  %
(I) Land acquisition
      Paddy field               mu             3824.55                    3135.13                122.0
       Dry land                 mu              554.38                     799.60                69.3
     Fruit garden               mu              850.55                     377.80                225.1
         Pond                   mu              337.93                     208.94                161.8
      Forest land               mu             6125.62                    6903.65                88.7
  Wasteland, hill and           mu              834.79                    1110.30                 75.2
 slope and other lands
       Subtotal                 mu             12799.30                  12535.42                102.1
Source: Resettlement Implementation Report

Conservation of Land Resource. Resettlement has long been recognized as a major challenge for
infrastructure development projects in China, where a mixture of political and socio-economic
factors have made the issue complicated and burdensome. The situation is particularly difficult
for projects located in high population density mountainous areas where rural residents heavily
rely on limited land for their livelihood. The Jiangxi Expressway project is a typical example,
where a significant portion of land would be affected by construction of the RGE expressway.

Public Participation. Wide and successful public participation is essential for the success of the
resettlement work. The resettlement team planned ahead. At the beginning of the resettlement
period, printed brochures introducing the government and World Bank’s resettlement policies
were widely distributed to affected household to ensure each affected individual was aware of the
resettlement policies, procedures, and individual household’s own rights. In addition to the
booklets, resettlement policies and other relevant information were also printed on posters and
placed on each village’s information wall. Resettlement office’s contact information was made
available for public supervision and monitoring. To encourage public involvement, town hall
style meetings were organized to allow villagers from affected areas to express their own ideas
directly to the resettlement management team.

The final RAP, prepared by the resettlement team, was based on the villagers’ opinions and
suggestions. Among the discussed topics, the central one was resettlement compensation,
including land compensation and labor force resettlement allowance. During the consultation



                                                             28
process, some innovative compensation methods were suggested by the villagers and adopted in
the RAP. For instance, the resettlement mode could be chosen by the villagers, with the options
consisting of either clustered resettlement, i.e. living in a condensed community with other
neighbors, or scattered mode, depending on each particular situation. The compensation payment
for land and labor force resettlement allowance was also presented with options. In some places,
the land compensation fund was directly disbursed to the farmers whose land was requisitioned,
whereas in other places, partial fund was used for public purpose production and re-development.

Dongtian Village, Maodian Town, Gan County are representative of the resettlement options. A
family electing to find a new housing site outside the clustered resettlement area by itself, would
receive an allowance of RMB 3,600 (US$528). In the case of a family electing a clustered
resettlement, the housing site would be determined according to the plan and through negotiation.
In cases where a dispute emerged over the location of the housing site, a lottery was used to
ensure fairness. The land for house rebuilding was provided to individual households without
                                               additional charge. (photo to left: Newly-built
                                               Concentrated Resettlement Area of Maoping
                                               Village, Luo’ao Town, Yudu County).

                                              Addressing Grievances. Clear procedures were
                                              established to ensure that all complaints would be
                                              resolved in a professional and efficient manner.
                                              Frequently encountered complaints were
                                              categorized and guidelines for response were
                                              provided to officers who were expected to handle
                                              these issues. Approximately 200 complaints were
received and handled during the resettlement stage of the project and no intractable conflicts
arose during the entire project cycle.

Compensation Disbursement. Resettlement compensation was paid directly to the displaced
families through individual accounts from local commercial banks. The resettlement office,
cooperating with postal saving banks, directly deposited the compensation funds into their special
accounts according to the ID cards of affected individuals. Beyond that, resettlement offices at all
levels ensured that resettlement funds under special accounts should not be used to repay
recipient’s personal debt.

Non-Cash Benefits. In addition to cash compensation payments, local communities were also
eligible to share other non monetary benefits from the project, such as the improvement of a
drinking water facility and rural road upgrading. Based on the resettlement plan, 3,000 mu (200
ha) of land were re-developed as orchard land and another 2,000 mu (133 ha) of land were
modified into orchard land.




                                                29
Qiantang Primary School before and after relocation

As shown in the table below, after resettlement, the land area for most affected households
increased.
                                Household Land Area Increase
                                                           After          Before
                                                           resettlement   relocation   Rate of
                                    Indexes                (m2)           (m2)         increase
            Gan County              Average area           223.08         183.89       21.31
                                    Minimum area           90             40           125
                                    Maximum area           540            540          0
            Huichang County         Average area           240.94         214.69       12.23
                                    Minimum area           70             34           105.88
                                    Maximum area           600            600          0
            Ruijin City             Average area           219.84         169.26       29.88
                                    Minimum area           75             40           87.5
                                    Maximum area           385            390          -1.28
            Yudu County             Average area           301.42         281.5        7.08
                                    Minimum area           110            30           266.67
                                    Maximum area           780            1600         -51.25
            Zhanggong District      Average area
                                                           251.9          197.41       27.61
                                    Minimum area           50             40           25
                                    Maximum area           600            600          0
            Total                   Average area           258.84         221.65       16.78
                                    Minimum area           50             30           66.67
                                    Maximum area           780            1600         -51.25

Housing structure also improved. Earth-wood housing structure used to be a major structure type
for the region, and has been reduced to a low percentile after resettlement. Brick-concrete became
the dominant structure type.




                                                      30
There was also improvement in the rural infrastructure facilities:

                                             Before resettlement     After resettlement
              I. Accessibility of towns
              Rather convenient              45.7                    66.5
              Average                        36.2                    24.3
              Inconvenient                   18.1                    8.9
              II. Source of drinking water
              Tap water                      12.6                    31.5
              Spring water                   1.5                     1.2
              Well water                     77.8                    63.5
              River and pond                 8.1                     3.9
              III. Roads in village
              Driveway                       65.2                    83.7
              Simple footpath                29.3                    14.6
              No road                        5.6                     1.7
              IV. Power supply
              Guaranteed                     45.7                    66.5
              Not guaranteed                 36.2                    24.3
              No power                       18.1                    8.9


A survey made by the resettlement office shows that the satisfaction rate among the relocated
households are very high, with most respondents rating the resettlement outcome between “Very
satisfied” and “Average”. In most counties, “Very dissatisfied” rating was rarely seen.




                                                   31
        Ratings of Land Acquisition and Resettlement Results by Relocated Households


                     Very                                                 Very
                     satisfied      Satisfied   Average    Dissatisfied   dissatisfied   Total
      Dongtian       25             25          25         25             0              100
      Hongxing       7.1            57.1        21.4       14.3           0              100
      Huangsha       7.1            57.1        14.3       21.4           0              100
      Huangtian      20.7           24.1        41.4       6.9            6.9            100
      Luobian        7.7            69.2        23.1       0              0              100
      Maoping        31.2           37.5        31.2       0              0              100
      Qiangong       33.3           42.9        14.3       9.5            0              100
      Sanmen         12.5           37.5        37.5       0              12.5           100
      Shanbei        0              60.9        26.1       8.7            4.3            100
      Shuiduan       15.4           23.1        38.5       0              23.1           100
      Taiyangping
                     0              70          20         10             0              100
      Tianxin        10             40          10         40             0              100
      Yanba          0              76.9        15.4       7.7            0              100
      Beixia         0              87.5        12.5       0              0              100
      General        13             50          24.5       9.1            3.4            100



HIV/AIDS Awareness Raising and Behavior Change

Overview. The Jiangxi Expressway III Project, included a project component designed to reduce
HIV transmission among construction personnel and local villagers by conducting AIDS
publicity and educational activities during the period when the construction was being undertaken.
With a grant of US$80,000 provided by the World Bank, the HIV/AIDS component covered a
range of activities implemented by the Jiangxi Provincial Center for Disease Control (JPCDC).

The HIV/AIDS Education Program started in April 2007 and ended in August 2009. The program
was divided into two phases, with Phase I ranging from April 2007 to January 2008, when the
sub-grade of the REGE was being built, and Phase II from February 2008 to September 2009,
when the pavement was being placed.
An estimated 21,500 construction staff (including all such staff) and villagers were covered
during the program’s two phases.

Program Investigation and Interviews. Before the program was formally launched, the
                                      implementation team carried out two provincial level
                                      program investigation and on site study tours. During
                                      this time, health professionals from JCDC interviewed a
                                      sample of construction staff and villagers as sample
                                      group to get the basic information and obtain baseline
                                      data for further intervention.




                                                 32
Training. Eight meetings and training sessions were held and around 400 persons took training
courses on HIV/AIDS topics. Training participants included managerial staff of the Jiangxi
Highway III Project, as well as grass-roots health care personnel working directly with the
construction workers at the construction sites. After this training was completed, more widely-
reaching public lectures on HIV/AIDS were given to a wider audience so that more people could
be reached out. Peer education was also a key method used by the program team to reach out
more construction personnel.

Posters and Publicity Materials. In addition to face-to-face training and lecturing, publicity
materials were also prepared and printed on various media including posters, booklets, and play-
cards, on which JCDC introduced the basics of HIV/AIDS infection channels and prevention
measures. Information about HIV voluntary consulting and testing (VCT) was also provided on
these printed materials so that more participants would be aware of the availability and
convenience of VCT. Testing was offered onsite.

Provision of Free Condoms. A key program intervention focused on changing people’s unsafe
sex behavior by encouraging condom usage. This was heavily promoted by the JCDC as a
fundamental prevention measure to lower the HIV infection rate. At construction sites and nearby
villages, free condoms were delivered to the target population together with educational materials.

Entertainment Shows and Gift-awarding Q&A sessions. In order to encourage public
involvement, innovative ideas were adopted to market the HIV/AIDS campaign and make it more
effective. For instance, variety shows and entertainment programs, conceived in partnership
between the JPTD, JPCDC, and the People’s Broadcasting Station of Jiangxi Province (PBSJ),
were utilized to spread messages on safe sex and the transmission of AIDS and other STDs. On
December 29 and 30, 2008, two variety shows were presented for construction workers and
project affected residents. Some 500 persons attended, including men, women, adolescents, and
children.




                                               33
Outputs. A summary of the program interventions is in the table below.

                                                          Output
                                                          Construction   For
     Intervention Activities                              personnel      Residents   Total
     Posters stick on walls                               2600           1654        4254
     Number of Condoms delivered                          71781          36080       107861
                               Picture booklets           66382          66229       132611
                               Play cards                 4825           4361        9186
                               VCDs                       3151           1984        5135
                               Eco shopping bags          460            0           4
                               Folding fans               35             0           35
     Dissemination of
     various publicity         Cups                       3610           4135        7745
     materials                 Calendars                  283            0           283
                               Number of lectures         164            122         286
     Lectures on
     HIV/AIDS knowledge        Number of participants     5702           3976        9678
                               Number of Consultation     3868           3183        7051

                               Number of Consultation
     HIV VCT                   and tests                  2104           254         2358
     Entertainment shows       Number of attendees        about 700                  about 700
     Activities of peer        Number of peer
     education                 educators                  72             15          87

Results. The evidence indicates that the awareness rate of HIV/AIDS knowledge among the
target groups has been significantly increased, stigmatization attitudes towards HIV-affected
people have decreased, and high risk behavior among non-marital relationships was dramatically
reduced. Differences in values before and after intervention were statistically significant for all
variables shown in the table. One of the most striking results was the increase in the rate of
condom usage by more than 100 percent.




                                                     34
      Item                   Key Indicators                    Improvement after intervention
                                                                           (%)
                                                        Construction    Construction       Residents
                                                        Personnel Ph. 1 Personnel Ph 2.
AIDS awareness       transmission knowledge                   41               58             29
                     average knowledge                        18               45             18
STDs awareness       average knowledge                        13               33             23
discrimination and   unwilling to affiliate with              36               70             34
stigma               HIV(+) (percentage reduction)
                     HIV(+) shall not attend school           12                57            36
                     (percentage reduction)
                     using condom when having sex             22                15             8
Sexual behavior      with non-marital partner in the
                     last three months
                     using condom when having sex             72                24            49
                     with non-marital partner in the
                     last time



Conclusion

The Jiangxi Expressway III Project is a representative case which demonstrates the success of a
World Bank-financed highway project in simultaneously achieving positive environmental and
social impacts. From the Bank’s perspective, the success gained can be largely attributed to
comprehensive planning in the project preparation stage, strong support from the leaders of
Jiangxi provincial government, unyielding commitment of the implementation team, and effective
cooperation among various stakeholders during project implementation. Despite many challenges
and practical problems encountered during the process, the project has benefited from the
adoption of local knowledge and innovation. All these factors combined have made the Jiangxi
Expressway III an exemplary project.




                                                   35
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)
Not applicable




                                   36
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1. Project Overview

Project Objectives
The Objectives of Third Jiangxi Highway Project are as follows:
Ganzhou to Ruijin Corridor: i) Increased average daily traffic；ii) Decreased accidents on the
existing road G323；iii）Decreased travel time;

Local Road Improvement Program (LRIP): i) Increased average daily traffic volume；ii)
Reduced number of days closed；iii）Reduced travel time；iv）Increased daily bus service；
and Implementation of key recommendations from the institutional strengthening components.


Brief Introduction of the Project
RGE is the important section of Xiamen to Chengdu Expressway in Jiangxi Province under
National Expressway Network, is also one of arterial expressway network in Jiangxi Province.
RGE is 117.12km in total length with a total estimate of RMB5.62 billion Yuan and an approved
construction period of 3 years.

RGE starts at Bixia Village, Yunshi Township of Ruijin City, connects the end point of Ailing to
Ruijin Expressway (under construction), via Ruijin City, Huichang County, Yudu County, Gan
County, Zhanggong District and Ganzhou City Economic & Technological Development Zone,
the end point of RGE connects the completed expressway in western Ganzhou City which is also
one section of Xiamen to Chengdu Expressway.

RGE is designed with expressway standard, i.e. dual-way four lanes, 26m wide subgrade and
designed driving speed of 100km/h. the main woks quantities are: subgrade stone & earth works
of 23.37 million cubic meters; 19570m/96 bridges, of which Gongjiang Exceptional Large Bridge
at Bai’e Town of Huichang County is the longest one with a total length of 1413m, the tallest
bridge is Jiuling Viaduct in Huichang County with the tallest pier of 75m, long-span variant
section continuous rigid system was firstly adopted for the bridge; 8873m/5 tunnels, among
which Zhonggong Tunnel is 4185m in length; protection works of 210933 m3; drainage works of
180741m3. Asphalt concrete pavement of 266.4km2；130 culverts; 257 passages; 6 interchanges;
6 toll stations; 2 service areas; 1 maintenance center; 1 surveillance center.


Project Cost and Finance
The project estimated cost had been modified, the World Bank loan disbursement ratio is varied
according to the different categories of the project ranging from 25% -100%, the total World
Bank loan for the Project is USD200 million. The domestic funds are from Ministry of
Transportation and Jiangxi Province.


Project Organization
JPTD undertook the Project, and established an implementing agency for the Project. The
Implementing Agency is headed by Mr. Wu Kehai and staffed with 4 deputy directors. Under the
Implementing Agency are the divisions of Engineering, Contract Management, Finance,
Administration, Inspection, Foreign Liaison and Land Acquisition & Resettlement Office.



                                               37
2. Project Implementation
RGE
Supervision service for RGE was divided into 6 contracts and procured through NCB, the
supervision scope was the corresponding subgrade, pavement, bridges & culverts, intersections,
tunnel, environmental protection, protection works, safety facility during construction preparation
stage, construction stage and defect liability period, and the supervision companies should do
works taking-over and completion & acceptance together with the Implementing Agency. The
successful supervision contractors were mobilized to the construction sites in January 2007.

Supervision service for E&M works and buildings of RGE was divided into 2 contracts and
procured through NCB, the supervision scope was the corresponding E&M works or buildings
and its accidental facilities during construction preparation stage, construction stage and defect
liability period, and the supervision companies should do works taking-over and completion &
acceptance together with the Implementing Agency. The successful supervision contractors were
mobilized to the construction sites in May 2008.
Civil works of RGE was divided into 16 subgrade contracts and 4 pavement works and procured
through ICB; 8 greening works contracts, 2 E&M works contracts, 9 building contracts and 4
traffic facility contracts were procured through NCB. Commencement opening news conference
was held by Jiangxi Government in Nanchang City on February 8, 2007, RGE was completed,
opened to the traffic and started a trial operation on February 8, 2009. RGE is the only World
Bank financed expressway in China which has not used foreign supervision service; and the
World Bank recognizes hard efforts in the field of the civilized construction, environmental
protection, quality control, resettlement and etc. by taking advantage of domestic engineers and
contractors.

JPTD entrusted Jiangxi Provincial E&M Equipment Bidding Co., Ltd. to procure the equipments
for maintenance of RGE through NCB. At present, the procured equipments have been basically
in place and can meet the needs of RGE maintenance management.

Local Road Improvement Program (LRIP)

The World Bank mission and local government preliminarily selected Chongyi to Fengzhou road
and Meilin to Longbu road from many optional roads in September 2005 as the LRIP. The
implementation of Meilin to Longbu road was delayed again and again due to the lack of
counterpart funds, then after the communication between the World Bank mission and the local
government, the Chongyi to Longgou road was replaced by the Anyuan to Dingnan road in
March 2008, but the implementation of the Anyuan to Dingnanan road had not been done on
schedule due to the lack of counterpart funds. After the communication between the local
government and the World Bank mission again, Anyuan to Dingnan road was replaced by the
Chongyi to Longgou road in September 2008. The implementation of Chongyi to Longgou Road
was failed due to the infringement of Loan Agreement and Project Agreement by Chongyi
County Government, because the local government commenced the construction of the road
without approval on the procurement of civil works from World Bank and was declared
misprocurement, so the World Bank loan allocated for the road was cancelled.

So, LRIP only includes Chongyi to Fengzhou Road. The construction of Chongyi to Fengzhou
Road was commenced in July 2006, 1 construction supervision contract, 3 subgrade contracts, 1
pavement contract, 1 traffic safety facility contract and 3 greening works contracts were procured
through NCB. After two years and half, Chongyi to Fengzhou Road was completed and opened to
the traffic in December 2008.



                                                38
Environmental Protection and Resettlement
Environmental protection was properly conducted in the whole process of construction of RGE.
According to Supervision Implementation Plan for Environmental Protection, there are
requirements of “no soil erosion during construction, no soil exposure after completion of works”
and guideline of “protecting slope bottom, draining and building dam when finishing the slope”
to regulate the discharging of slurry, side slope protection and control of disposal & earth-borrow
site. Cofferdam method and sediment tank was adopted for bridges of RGE to prevent polluting
the river during the construction of bridge foundation; broadcasting the grass seeds on the slope
surface, using ecological membrane and stacking earth-filled bags on the slope toe and etc to
prevent cut slope and embankment from the soil erosion. When the works was completed,
temporary land, construction sites, living camps had been cleaned and restored completely before
demobilization.

Protection and greening works for the cut slopes was designed and optimized step by step, the
slopes were rounded in order to keep in harmony with the natural hills nearby, ecological
protection is adopted as much as possible and much attention is paid to planting local trees, grass
and bushes. Greening on side slopes of the sandy rock is very difficult, new techniques such as
grass seed bags on the ruts of side slope, geotechnical latticework, anchor bolt strengthening and
grass-seed broadcasting on borrowed soil are adopted and the World Bank mission praised it each
time the mission came to Jiangxi Province.

Resettlement

Internal Monitoring and Independent Monitoring were conducted for the preparation and
implementation of RGE’s resettlement. The major events of RGE’s resettlement activities are:
May to June 2005 saw the completion of land acquisition & house relocation and social economic
survey, and RGE Resettlement Action Plan was prepared based on the survey; the World Bank
conducted official appraisal on Third Jiangxi Highway Project in April 2006; RGE’s resettlement
mobilization meeting was held on August 16, 2006 in Ganzhou City, symbolizing the formal
launch of RGE’s resettlement activities. Based on the resettlement preparation, Provincial
Resettlement Office (PRO) disbursed the first funds for land acquisition and house relocation,
symbolizing the formal beginning of resettlement implementation. Consultation on land
acquisition for JP3 was finished in end December 2006, the house relocation was ongoing. More
than 90% houses to be relocated had been demolished, and then the house rebuilding was the
focus. Land Acquisition Contracts were signed between Project Office and all Counties (Cities)
Governments along the RGE in end June 2007; by the end of December 2007 house relocation
had basically been completed, and land compensation funds had been disbursed basically, and
among 747 households who had to relocate their houses, 606 households had had their house
rebuilt, 142 households were rebuilding their houses, and 1 household had not rebuilt its house;
up to the end of January 2009, three remaining un-relocated houses in end 2007 had be relocated
timely through reaching compensation agreement. March 2009 saw the completion and opening
to the traffic of RGE ahead of schedule.




                                                39
 The differences between the actual quantities and those in RAP dated in 2005 are shown below.

                                Comparison between the actual quantities and those in RAP

   items                              unit        Actual quantity        Quanityt in RAP    Difference
   I. Land acquired
   Paddy field                        Mu          3824.55                3135.13            689.42
   Dry land                           Mu          554.38                 799.60             -245.23
   Orchard                            Mu          850.55                 377.80             472.75
   Pond                               Mu          337.93                 208.94             128.99
   Forest land                        Mu          6125.62                6903.65            -778.03
   Waste land and other land          Mu          834.79                 1110.30            -275.51
   Subtotal                           Mu          12799.30               12535.42           263.88
   II. houses relocated
   Brick and concrete bungalow        M2          77001.24               104255.94          -27254.70
   Brick & tile house                 M2          16712.69               28208.48           -11495.79
   Earth & wood house                 M2          99814.90               115036.60          -15221.70
   Simple house                       M2          21313.52               26869.07           -5555.55
   subtotal                           M2          214842.35              274370.09          -59527.74
   III. things attached to the land
   Levelled ground                    M2          37308.52               39302.80           -1994.28
   Ground for basking grain           M2          24215.24               10538.55           13676.69
   well                               unit        606.00                 605.00             1.00
   tomb                               unit        9671.00                2231.00            7440.00
   Marsh gas tank                     unit        120.00                 48.00              72.00
   Wall fence                         m           6416.57                3244.70            3171.87

From the above table, it is learned that additional land was acquired, and the area of the relocated
houses was reduced, and the quantities of structures attached to the land varied. As a whole, except
for the area of the houses, the quantities of the other affected physical things varied little.

The reduction in the quantity of relocated houses helped reduce the impact on local people. The
differences between the quantity during the socioeconomic survey and the actual quantity are due
to the followings main reasons:

          Through the wide disclosure of the information on the project, the affected population
           knew much about the Project, and they actively participated in the careful check and
           confirmation of the affected physical things during the course of laying out the red line, so
           the quantity of the affected physical things was more accurate, while during the
           construction, more physical things attached to the land (such as tombs and underground
           facilities) were found, thus the quantity of affected physical things attached to the land in
           some places was increased.

          During the preliminary resettlement survey, the quantity of land of all kinds to be acquired
           were recorded according to the current situation, while these information was checked
           based on the principle of “on the basis of current situation, take a reference to its history”.
           Thus the original paddy field was changed to the dry land, and the original orchard was
           changed to the dry land and forest land, in order to be in favor of farmers’ benefit, they
           were compensated according to the original land kinds. So the quantities of acquired


                                                            40
       paddy field and orchard were increased while the quantities of dry land and forest land
       were decreased greatly. This change indicated that the Resettlement Office paid much
       attention to the opinions of the affected persons and protected the benefits of the affected
       persons.

Institutional Strengthening

Traffic safety operation for tunnels. 81 tunnels in total in Jiangxi Province were surveyed for
the study, especially the detailed field survey on the Heshi Tunnel and Jiulingshan Tunnel of
Wulin to Ji’an Expressway and the Yanggongshan Tunnel of Taihe to Ganzhou Expressway was
carried out, basic information, traffic volume and traffic accident data of all tunnels in Jiangxi
Province from 2004 to 2008 were collected. Integrating the highway tunnel operation safety
evaluation and management system theory and management experience, the Study Team carried
out systematic analysis and study on the current situation of highway tunnel operation safety
evaluation and the existing problem in Jiangxi Province, and discussed the division of the
highway tunnel safety class, and tunnel safety evaluation methodology corresponding to the
different highway tunnel safety class and its application.

Aiming at the existing problem of tunnel management in Jiangxi Province, the Study provided the
technological improvement measures and policy recommendations for the government, such as
(i) providing good visual condition inside the tunnel;（ii）strengthening the control of
ventilation, enhancing the fire-fighting emergency capacity, improving the tunnel surveillance
management;（iii）strengthening the safety education for the designers, managerial staff, drivers
and passengers; and（iv）the government should prepare the safety facility standards for the
construction of the long expressway tunnel.
In addition, the study also discussed the highway tunnel safety evaluation, the development and
application of information management software, and prepared the Expressway Tunnel
Operational Safety Management Manual for the long tunnel.

Roadside safety. A study on the expressway roadside safety and countermeasures was carried
out and supported by the World Bank technically and financially. Field survey was conducted for
the existing expressways, its roadside safety facilities and black spots of roadside-prone traffic
accident in Jiangxi Province and collected the roadside-related traffic accident data of three
expressways situated on the different landforms in 2006 and 2007, then the detailed analysis on
the traffic accident characters, traffic accident data and its causes by means of adopting the traffic
safety theory and mathematical statistic technology.

The case study discussed the classification method of expressway roadside safety level and its
application, and the effectively protective measures were finalized according to the safety risks
possibly caused by the inadequate roadside safety facility design, such as : (i) for the section with
adequate roadside clear zone, slab-covered ditches or shallow ditches are available instead of
former traditional ditches in order to increase the roadside safety; (ii) an effective transition is
available for the section with interface of semi-rigid and rigid guard fence (guard fence transition
from subgrade to bridge); (iii) rumble strip in the road shoulder, a new road safety technology;
and (iv) strengthened guard fence (the interval of post is denser and the guard fence is wider) was
adopted for high embankment section.

The outcome of the study was comparatively widely applied in RGE, and its roadside safety had
been improved effectively, and the outcome had been also applied in the other expressways in
Jiangxi Province.

HIV/AIDS. With the hard efforts of Disease Control Centers along RGE, HIV/AIDS prevention
baseline survey and prevention & interference activities were completed smoothly. 1182


                                                 41
construction workers and 735 residents along RGE were involved in questionnaires survey and
accepted VCT testing at the first stage, thus the self-protection awareness was enhanced and its
active influence on society was occurred, especially the peer education among the construction
workers is an innovative way for the widespread broadcast of HIV/AIDS prevention and
interference education in other projects in the future.

Electronic Toll Collection (ETC). Manual toll collection assisted by computer and detector is
adopted for RGE, that is, manual toll collection, computer management and detector verification.
Passenger bus is charged according to the types of buses, and cargo truck is charged based on the
basic toll rate of 0.08Yuan/ton*km and the actual tonnage of truck and goods measured by the
weighbridge at the toll station, the truck less than 10T in weight is charged based on basic toll
rate; the truck between 10T and 40T in weight is charged in two parts, that is, the part below 10T
is charged on basic toll rate and the another part beyond 10T is charged on toll rates reduced
linearly from 0.06 to 0.03Yuan/ton*km; the truck above 40T in weight is charged on 40T.
Vehicles with the total weight less than 5T are charged on 5T; if the charged toll is less than
5Yuan, it will be charged 5Yuan.

ETC is the development trend of toll collection technology, ETC system is compatible with
manual toll collection system. And ETC toll collection system has the following 3 advantages:
i) increase the efficiency of toll collection, and put an end to the corruption, cheat and improper
toll collection; ii) reduce the traffic congestion, additional fuel consumption and pollution;
iii) enhance traffic efficiency. Under the help of the World Bank, 2 ETC lanes were installed at
North Ganzhou Toll Station of RGE. Up to now, more than 100 ETC lanes were completed for
over 3000km expressway in Jiangxi Province; this year additional 655km expressway will be in
place and more than 100 ETC lanes in total will be completed by the end of this year; in the next
two years, according to the planning, more than 100 ETC lanes will be newly built in Jiangxi,
then there will be more than 200 ETC lanes in total for the expressways in Jiangxi Province.

Training Program and its Outcome
Domestic Training. Project Office sent its staff to participate many training activities on
resettlement, environmental protection, financial management and safety management and etc.
held by the World Bank. 150 person * month domestic training was completed with a total cost of
about USD3000.
Overseas Training. SPN of overseas training was published on UN Development Business, and
China Daily on January 17, 2008. HY 01 contract was procured through QCBS; RFPs were sent
to the interesting training consulting companies on June 17, 2008 and received 5 sets of Proposals
from five training consulting companies, TTA Technology Training Company was recommended
as successfully bidder after careful comprehensive evaluation. Contract signed between Project
Office and TTA on March 23, 2009, and formal contract was signed on May 27, 2009. At present
HY01 is being implemented and expected to be completed by the end of 2010.

Outcome. Technical staffs from JPTD were trained in the field of highway management, highway
design and planning, financial management, highway maintenance and traffic engineering and etc,
and good outcome was achieved. These trained staffs played their active role during the
implementation of the projects.

3、General view on the Project

Under the leadership of JPTD, the support of local governments and people along RGE and two-
and-half-year hard efforts of Project Office and Contractors and Supervisors, RGE was completed
and opened to the traffic on April 28 2009, all components of the JP3 were successfully



                                                42
completed and the main objectives of the Project were achieved. One 117 km RGE, 9 km
connecting road and 48.5km local road were completed.

The original 3-year construction period was shortened to two and half years, which is attribute to
professional planning and management of works construction and hard efforts of all construction
works and technical/managerial staff. Accelerating the forming of expressway network in Jiangxi
Province and greatly improving the accesses in poor Southern Jiangxi Province will provide high
quality passages to international seaports and airports of the coastal areas and shorten the travel
time from Jiangxi Province to the neighboring provinces of Fujian, Guangdong Hunan and etc.

Design Experience

RGE was designed by Jiangxi Provincial Communication Design Institute (JPCDI). JPCDI
assigned deign representatives to the site during the construction to be in charge of variation and
drawing improvement. We think the design needs advanced idea, technical innovations and
scientific management, and the design needs to be improved continuously during the construction.

Project Implementation Experience

Application of World Bank Policy, Full Monitoring at All Stages. JPTD fully applies World
Bank’s management experience to resettlement, environmental protection and etc. at all stages,
and environment and affected DPs’ benefits were protected comparatively well; according to the
international FIDIC clauses, the main works were procured through ICB with the lowest bid price
be the successful bidder, which reduced the construction cost; The Project was implemented
according to the World Bank’s policy, the managerial staffs learned a lot from the
implementation of the Project, and comparatively good social and economic benefits were
achieved, and the overall efficiency was improved.

Fulfilling the contract and timely communication are the key point of project management.
Project Office paid much attention to the realization of bidding commitment, especially the
availability of personnel, equipments and construction preparation. RGE is an expressway with a
comparatively high ratio of bridge & tunnel in Jiangxi Province, there are many tunnels, viaducts,
high side slopes and many sections with geologically complicated red sand rock. The construction
is hard. Therefore, Project Office actively communicated the contractors’ high-level authority
and got their support for the construction of the Project, and created good construction condition
for the contractors.

Quality control. (i) Establish regulations, improve quality assurance system. In the beginning of
works commencement, Project Office prepared RGE Project Management Outline, Supervision
Service Program, and Punishment on Improper Site Operation; meanwhile there are three-level
quality assurance system, that is governmental inspection, supervision and self-inspection of
contractors. It is required that the site resident engineer should do sample testing and inspect the
quality as required in the whole process of works construction. Quality Supervision Station under
JPTD had sent a work group to the site of the Project to strengthen the routine supervision of the
works quality; (ii) To strengthen the work efficiency of the supervision companies, Project Office
made the work procedure clear that the next work process must not be started when the previous
work process is disqualified and when contractors had not reported and asked for inspection or
the supervision engineers had not signed and accept the works. At the same time, Project Office
prepared strict Site Patrol Inspection System which required the staff to do inspection diary, and
urged the contractors and supervision engineers to deal with the various problems; and (iii) Pay
much attention to the establishment of laboratory of supervision companies with adequate testing
equipments and personnel. The supervision companies carried out independently testing and
inspection so as to control the quality of material, ensure scientific mixing ratio, improve
technique and assure the works quality. Besides overall inspection was carried out monthly, more


                                                43
than 10 special inspections on red sandy rock subgrade, abutment backfilling of bridges and
culverts, bridge girders, pavement quality were done. 29 pieces of piers of category III and IV
were disqualified and demolished and rebuilt, walls of passages with slabs at 11 places were
demolished and rebuilt, one piece of 40m girder and 27 pieces of hollow slabs were rejected,
1.3km subgrade and 460m drainage works was reconstructed, and 4000 cubic meters of
disqualified materials were rejected.

Operation experience

The operation of RGE is basically good. Since the opening to the traffic on April 28, 2009,
Ganzhou Management Division is in charge of the operation, management and maintenance of
RGE, after more than one year’s operation, the RGE’s condition is basically good. RGE brings
great benefits to the areas along it and effectively promote the great development of local industry
and agriculture.

Independent Ruigan Maintenance Center (RMC) is in charge of the maintenance of RGE. RMC
can deal with various defects and damages to keep RGE safe and smooth.

Traffic Volume on Expressway and Other Highways

Actual daily traffic volume on RGE is a little less than target value, and the traffic volume on
NHNo.323 is not decreased as it was expected in that year, but increased. The reasons are as
follows:
    i) Two expressways of Ruijin to Ailing (to Fujian Province) and Ganzhou to Chongyi (to
    Hunan Province) have not been completed and opened to the traffic, so the Ruijing to
    Ganzhou Expressway (RGE) can attract the less traffic from the neighboring provinces.
    ii) NHNo.323 is Class II road, and the section from Ruijin to Ganzhou had been reconstructed
    in 2005, and the road condition is good at present with good horizontal and longitudinal
    alignment, and furthermore from February 21, 2009, the vehicles did not pay the toll any
    more when running on NHNo. 323, thus partial traffic volume was attracted from the RGE.
    iii) Due to the global economic recession and financial crisis during 2006-2009, a huge
    number of migrant workers in the villages along the NHNo.323 came back home, so the
    traffic volume of cars and motorcycles became more and more; and moreover RGE was
    experiencing the peak construction at the time period, a lot of construction vehicles, material-
    hauling vehicles and other construction equipments caused the increase in the traffic volume
    on NHNo.323.
    iv) In recent years, local governments set up the economic development zone along
    NHNo.323, so the traffic volume on NHNo.323 are also varied according to the prosperity
    and recession of the economic development zone.

4.      Borrower’s Performance

In order to implement JP3, JPTD established World Bank Loan Project Office of JPTD in 2005 in
charge of project pre-preparation, bidding activities, management, coordination, land acquisition,
environmental protection, resettlement, plan and financial management and etc.
After hard efforts of all parties involved, RGE was completed one year ahead of schedule. The
quality of the RGE Project is rated as good by Quality Supervision Station under JPTD with an
evaluation point of 97.57.




                                                44
5.      World Bank’s performance

The World Bank started project preparation of JP3 in 2005. The World Bank pre-appraisal
mission assessed the JP3 technically, economically and etc. During the construction, the World
Bank inspection missions provided practical and helpful recommendation on quality control,
financial management and institutional strengthening. During the preparation and construction
stage, the World Bank provided Project Office abundant support, and the World Bank has a good
cooperation with Project Office. The World Bank officials understood the demand of traffic
infrastructure development and provided support. The People’s Government of Jiangxi Province
and JPTD express sincere thanks for the World Bank’s cooperation and support.

6.      Experience and Lessons

It took nearly two years for the project pre-preparation including project identification,
preparation, appraisal, negotiation and approval from the Board with World Bank economists,
finance experts, resettlement experts, environment experts and engineers being involved. It is
deserved for us to learn from the World Bank how to identify correctly the project, how to carry
out plan alternative comparison and selection, institutional establishment, preparation of Project
Implementation Plan, and Project Procurement Plan and risk management and etc. The
expressway project is a major long-term investment, in order to obtain the best technical solutions,
establish proper organization and forecast and treat in advance relevant issues, it is deserved for
us to take a long time for the project pre-preparation.




                                                45
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Not applicable




                                    46
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Chen Chong, 2009. Report on Progress Review of HIV/AIDS Education Program Under Jiangxi
Highway Project III.

Deng, Fei and Wang, Peng, 2009. World Bank Financed Jiangxi Expressway III Project –
Successful Experience in Environmental and Social Impact Mitigation. World Bank, East Asia
and Pacific Region, Sustainable Development Department.

World Bank. 2006. People’s Republic of China: Third Jiangxi Highway Project. Project
Appraisal Document.

World Bank, 2006. Loan Agreement, Third Jiangxi Highway Project. November 23, 2006

World Bank. 2009. Project paper on a proposed restructuring of the Jiangxi 3 Highway Project
(Loan number 4843-Cha for the People’s Republic of China).Internal Bank document prepared
by Transport Sector Unit, Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region, August 2009.

World Bank. Supervision Missions’ Aide-Memoires, Third Jiangxi Project, 2006-2010.

Wuhan University, Center for Involuntary Resettlement Research, 2009. Resettlement Completion
Report, The World Bank Financed Jiangxi 3 Expressway project.




                                             47
                                                                                                                                                                  CHINA
                                                                                                                    THIRD JIANGXI HIGHWAY PROJECT


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SEAT OF TOWN GOVERNMENT
                                           THIRD JIANGXI HIGHWAY PROJECT:
                                                                                                                                                              PROVINCE HIGHWAYS                                                                       SEAT OF COUNTY GOVERNMENT
                                               PROPOSED RUIJIN CITY - GANZHOU EXPRESSWAY
                                                                                                                                                              NATIONAL HIGHWAYS                                                                       SEAT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT
                                               LOCAL ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
                                                                                                                                                              EXISTING EXPRESSWAYS                                                                    SEAT OF PROVINCE GOVERNMENT
                                               INTERCONNECTING ROAD
                                                                                                                                                              RAILROADS                                                                               COUNTYBOUNDARIES
                                Yudu           CITIES AFFECTED BY THE PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                              INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT                                                                   PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
                                               PROJECT PREFECTURE
                                                                                                                                                              OTHER AIRPORTS                                                                          PROVINCE BOUNDARIES




                                                                        114°                                                                                                                                                                                                                               118°
                                                                                                                            Daye
           30°                                                                                                                                                Huangmei                                                                         Dongzhi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ANHUI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             30°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Qimen
                                                                                  HUBEI                                                                                                                             Pengze
                                                                                                                                                                         G105



                                                                                                                                                                                                 Hukou
                                                                                                                                                                  Jiujiang                                                                                                                                      Xiuning
                                                                                 Tongshan                                                        Ruichang                                          Longgongdong
                                                                                                                                                         Jiujiang                    Shilibu                                                       G206



                                                                                                                                                                                      Xingxi                                                         Fujiang
                                                                                                                                             G316
                                                        Tongcheng
                                                                                                                                                                      Dean
                                                                                                                                                                                                Duchang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Jingdezhen                                        Wuyuan
                                                                                                                   Wuning                                                                                                                                                                                                            ZHEJIANG
                                                                                         Xiushui
                                                                                                                                                                         Aicheng                Poyang
                                                                                                                 First Jiangxi                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Kaihua
                                                                                                                 Highway Project                               GZ20
                                                                                                                                                                           Yongxiu                Hu Boyang                        Leping
                                                                                                                                                        G105                                                               Ro                                                  Dexing
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             aH
                                                                                                                              Jing'an                                           NANCHANG                                       e

                            Pingjiang                                                                                          Fengxin                     Jiao Qiao                                    Ruihong
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Yugan                                                                                                             GZ65

                                                                                                                                                         Xinjian                                                                                                                                                  Yushan
                                                                               Tonggu                                                                                                                   Junshanhu                         Wannian
                                                                                                                                                           G320
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               G206
                                                                                                                                                                             Nanchang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Xi n




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         G320

                                                                                                        Yifeng                      Gaoan                                                                                                                                                                                    Guangfeng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Jia




               To the north                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Yiyang Hengfeng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         n




            of Hunan province                                                                                                                                                                    Jinxian
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           g




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Shangrao Shangrao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Guixi
                                     Liuyang                                                                          Shanggao                                        G105
                                                                                                 G320                                                                                                   Dongxiang               G320                                            Qianshan
                                                                                                                                                    GZ65                                                             Yujiang                 Yingtan
                                                                                                                                                                  Fengcheng
                                                G319                            Wanzai                                                                                                           GZ20
           28
                                                                                                                                                    Zhangshu                                              Linchuan
                                                        Shangli                                    Fenyi Xinyu                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               28°
                                                                           Yichun                                                                                                                                            Jinxi
                                                                                                                                            g
                                                                                                                                         ain




                                                                                                                                                                         Chongren                                      G206
                                                                                                                                        J




                                                                                                                                                Xin'gan
                                                                                                                                     an




                                                                        GZ65                                                                                                                                                       G316
                                         G320               Luxi                                                                     G                                                                                                                                                                               Wuyishan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Zixi
                                                           Pingxiang                                               Xiajiang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Guangze
                                                         G319                                                                                                                                  Yinhuang              Nancheng
                                                                                                                                                                      Lean
                                                                                                                             G105
                                                                                                                                                                                    Gugang                          GZ20
                                                                                         Anfu                                                                                                                                   Lichuan
                                                                                                                                                Yongfeng
                                                                                                                              Jishui                                                                                                                   Shaowu
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Nanteng
                                                                Lianhua
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Fu He




                   HUNAN                                                                                 Ji'an        Ji'an                                                                                                                                           To Nanping, Fuzhou

                                                                               Yongxin
                                                                G319
                                                                                        G319                                                Shangu
                                                                                                                                                                             Guangchang                                                              Tainin
                                                                Ninggang
                                                                                                                  Taihe                                           Hantou
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Jianning                                          FUJIAN
                  To the southwest
                 of Hunan province
                                                                                               G105                   G319
                                     Lingxian          Jinggangshan
                                                                                                            Wan'an                                                Ningdu

                                                                               Suichuan                                                  Xingguo                                    Shicheng
                                                                                                                                                               G319
                                                                                                                For detail,                                                                                                                                                      0                      25                      50                      75
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ninghua
                                                                                                             See IBRD 34206                                                                                                                                                                              KILOMETERS
                                                                                                                                                                             G319
                                          Guidong                                                                                                                                         G206
           26°°
                                 Second Jiangxi                                                                                Yudu                                                                                                                                 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                 Highway Project                                           Ganzhou                                              G323              Ruijin                                          To Longyan, Xiamen                                The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            °26°
                                                                               Shangyou                               Ganxian                                                                                       and Zhangzhou                                   Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                         G319
                                                                                                                   Meicun                                                                                                                                           endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                       Chongyi                                                                                                                  Changting
                                                           Fengzhou                                                                                               G206
                                                                                    Nankang
                            Rucheng                                                                                   Panggushang
                                                                                                                                                                   Huichang                                                                                                 RUSSIAN
                                                                                                                                         Longbu                                                                                                                           FEDERATION
                                                                                     G323
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                KAZAKHSTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HEILONGJIANG
                                                                                                                  Xinfeng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MONGOLIA                                                               JILIN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                KYRGYZ
                                                            Nanxiang                                                                                                                                                              REP.                                                                               L                       LIAONING         D.P.R. OF J a p a n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GO
                                                                                                                          Anyuan                                                                                                                  XINJIANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            O N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       BEIJING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        I M
                                                                                                           G105                                                                      Wuping                                                                                                        NE              BEIJING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TIANJIN                               JAPAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HEBEI                             REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SHANXI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               KOREA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NINGXIA




                                                                                            Longnan                                       Xunwu                                                                                                                                                                                  SHANDONG Ye llo w
                                                   Shixing                                                                                                                                                                                                          QINGHAI                                                                            Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             JIANGSU
                                                                                                                                                       G206                                                                                                                           GANSU SHAANXI HENAN
                                                                                                                   Dingnan                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SHANGHAI E a s t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ANHUI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              G




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       XIZANG                                                       HUBEI
                                                                                   Quannan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SICHUAN                                                      ZHEJIANG             China
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NG




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GX
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    O




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   HUNAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     JIA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FUJIAN
                     GUANGDONG                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GUIZHOU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 34205R




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             National Capital                                                                                     TAIWAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                YUNNAN                                       GUANGDONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GUANGXI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Province Boundaries                                                                                                Philippine
MAY 2011




                                                Wengyuan                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          HONG KONG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MACAO                               Sea
                                                                                                                          To Meizhou, Shantou                                                                                                International Boundaries                          VIETNAM
                                                To Guangzhou, Heyuan                                                                                                                                                                               Bay       of                       LAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HAINAN
                                                                                                                                and Chaozhou                             116                                                                                                         P.D.R.              118                                                  PHILIPPINES
                                                        and Shenzhen                                                                                                                                                                              B e n g a l
