Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.8968
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUC.XTION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1087-PNG/LOAN 1934-PNG)
AUGUST 21, 1990
Population and Human Resources Division
Technical Department
Asia Region
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Kina (K)
At Appraisal 1980
K 1.00  -   US$1.50
US$1.00  =    K 0.67
US$1.00 = SDR 0.78
Annual Average
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
Kina       0.86    0.87    0.94    1.00    0.98    0.89    0.87
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January - December
ABBREVIATIONS
CDC         -  Curriculum Development Centre
CDD         -  Curriculum Development Division
DESP        -  Diploma in Educational Studies (Planning)
Ed I        -  Education I, First Education Project (Credit 661-PNG)
Ed II       -  Education II, Primary Education Project (Credit 1087-PNG/
Loan 1934-PNG)
Ed III      -  Education III, Secondary Education Project (Loan 2395-PNG)
ERC         -  Education Research Center
INNOTECH    -  Regional Center for Innovation and Technology (Manila,
Philippines)
INSET       -  Inservice training
ISSEd       -  Inservice Bachelor of Education
MPU         -  Management and Planning Unit
MSU         - Measurement Services Unit
NDF         -  National Department of Finance
NDOE        -  National Department of Education
NGSE        -  National Grade Six Examinations
NIEPA       -  National Institute of Planning and Administration
(New Delhi, India)
NPEP        -  National Public Expenditure Plan
PCR         -  Project Completion Report
PDOE        -  Provincial Division of Education
PIP         -  Public Investment Program
PMC         -  Project Management Committee
PMSO        -  Provincial Materials and Supply Officer
PNG         -  Papua New Guinea
POMITC      -  Port Moresby In-Service Teachers College
PPEF        -  Provincial Primary Education Fund
REU         -  Research and Evaluation Unit
RMS         -  Resource Management System
RPA         -  Regional Planning Adviser
SAR         -  Staff Appraisal Report
SDU         -  Staff Development Unit
SPA         -  Senior ProfpsRsonal Assistant
SSCEP       - Secondary Schools Curriculum Extension Project
SSDO        -  Senior Staff Development Officer
TA          -  Technical assistance
UPE         -  Universal primary education



THE WORLD BANK
Washigton. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ofice* of Dwetw-G.oha
Opsitmi Ivlmti
August 21, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Papua New Guinea Primary
Education Project (credit 1087-PNG/Loan 1934-PNG)
Attached, for information, ls a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Papua New Guinea Primary Education
Project (Credit 1087-PNG/Loan 1934-PNG)" prepared by the Asia Regional
Office with Part It of the report contributed by the Borrower.
No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attacbment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oflcia duties. Its contents may not otherwis be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



FOR OFFICaL USE ONLY
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1087-PNGILOAN 1934-PNG)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
PFACE . . . .                               ........ . .
PROJECT EVALUATION SUMMARY  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  i
1.  MAIN FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED (BANK)  . . . . . . . . .1
Project Identity  ....  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .. . .
Project Background  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..  1
Project Objectives and rescription  . . . . . . . . . . .
Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . .         2
Project Implementation . . . ........ ..                          3
Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . .          6
Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         9
Bank Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        10
Borrower Performance  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  11
Lessons Learned . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . .       l
2.   MAIN FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED (BORROWER)  . . .13
Introduction          .. . . . . .               . . .  .        13
General Project Preparation . . . . . . .          .  . . . . .  13
Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . ... . .        18
Implementation ... ..              . ...        ....             23
Summary Statement .        ......... . . .                       29
3.    3.1   Related Bank Credits/Loans  . . . . . . . . . . . . .         31
3.2   Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        32
3.3 Credit/Loan Disbursements  . .34
3.4   Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        35
3.5   Project Costs and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . .        40
3.6   Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        43
3.7   Status of Covenants ....  .      .    ......  .   .  .  .   .  48
3.8   Use of Bank Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        49
Tbis document has a restrikted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discbsed without World Bank authorization.



- i -
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1087-PNG/LOAN 1934-PNG)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Primary Education
Pr-oject in the Independent State of Papua New Guinea (PNG) which was financed
by Credit 1087-PNG for SDR 9.4 million (US$12 million equivalent) and Loan
1934-PNG for US$6.0 million. The Project was substantially completed in June
1988 and the accounts closed December 31 of the same year with disbursements
having been completed four months earlier.
The PCR is based on the findings of a mission, comprising a General
Educator (Ms. Anita H. Martin) from the UNESCO-World Bank Cooperative Program,
who visited PNG from May 2-20, 1989, and on an earlier review of the World
Bank's project files.
The invaluable assistance and cooperation of the Government of PNG
and World Bank Group staff are gratefully acknowledged.



- ii -
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1087-PNG/LOAN 1934-PNG)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project Evaluation Summary
The Primary Education Project was the PNG Government's effort to
bring the country nearer to its goal of universal primary education (UPE). It
was designed to address the basic issues of stagnant enrollment, low teaching
efficiency, low academic performance and shortages of trained staff.
In terms of quantitative outcomes, the Project exceeded its targets
for increased pupil enrollments and increased localization of staff in teacher
training colleges. Substantial progress was also made in redressing enroll-
ment disparities among provinces. It was able to produce textbooks and other
instructional materials in record volumes. It did not, however address pro-
blems of distribution of materials and also underestimated production com-
plexities. It was responsible for the training of a substant._al number of
personnel to staff various areas of educational development. Pupil achieve-
ment scores are expected to grow once the full impact of the textbooks which
were supplied under the Project to all primary schools is felt. The Project,
however, has not been successful in improving pupil retention.
As far as institution building is concerned, the Project's contribu-
tions to the strengthening of curriculumitextbook development, educational
examinations and project monitoring and evaluation have been firm and sustain-
able, despite relatively low retention of staff trained under the Project in
posts related to their training. In planning, however, its effects have been
less far-reaching and can only be regarded as a first step in a long-term
process of institutionalizing planning as an integral part of a well-articu-
lated structure for education resource allocation.
The Project was developed in the context of an agreed Bank-
Government strategy to focus on improving education quality, starting with the
base of the system and subsequently addressing issues in secondary education.
In focusing on quality issues, the Primary Education Project recognized the
need to tackle several inter-related inputs, many of which required
institutional changes. The Project was therefore by definition complex,
particularly as it was the first Bank-assisted sub-sector project implemented
by the Department of Education. Given the risks, the Project was on the whole
implemented well and left behind a number of institutional changes which are
likely to be sustained. Nevertheless, there were weaknesses in both design
and implementation. It was the intention to address outstanding or emerging
issues through longer-term Bank involvement in a Second Primary Education
Project. Continuity of Bank involvement was lost, however, with the
Government's decision not to seek further Bank assistance for the primary
education sub-sector.



- 1 -
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1087-PNG/LOAN 1934-PNG)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I
Main Findings and Lessons Learned (Bank)
Project Identity
Project Name            Primary Education Project
Credit/Loan Number      Credit 1087-PNG/Loan 1934-PNG
RVP Unit               Asia
Country                 Independent State of Papua New Guinea
Sector                  Population and Human Resources
Subsector              Education
Project Background
1.1       Significant progress was made prior to 1970 in expanding primary
education in PNG, but the primary enrollment ratio stagnated in the seventies
and serious problems developed. The problems of the subsector had four
dimensions: management, where the policy of decentralization under the
Organic Law of 1977 placed responsibility for the planning and management of
primary and lower secondary education onto the provinces, where the personnel
necessary to exercise this power was in short supply; quality, in which avail-
able indicators showed educational performance to be low and falling; stagnant
inequitable enrollment patterns, where the ratio of 552 of the primary edu-
cation age group enrolled in school which was reached in 1970, had remained
virtually stationary (in 1979, reaching only 582) and access was far from
equitable with regard to geography, socio-economic class and sex; and finan-
cial constraints, at both the national level (due largely to a Government
policy of reducing PNG's dependence on external aid) and the provincial level
(which had limited revenue-earning powers). The Primary Education Project's
brief was to help address these problems.
Project Objectives and Description
1.2       The Project was designed to (a) improve the management of
educational resources, (b) assist the National Department of Education (NDOE)
to improve the quality of primary education, and (c) help provinces (the
Provincial Departments of Education or PDOEs) increase the quality of and
access to primary education.



-2-
1.3       Its specific objectives were to assist in:
(a)  improving education resources management by training educational
administrators, planners and teachers tot (i) make better use of
human resources; (ii) help implement the Government's decentraliza-
tion policy; (iii) accelerate the introduction of indigenous staff
through appropriate training by increasing the proportion of local
teachers in all primary education teacher training colleges from 282
to 50X; and (iv) retard the growth of recurrent costs through a 152
increase in actual class size and systematic school location
planning;
(b)  quality improvement by reducing the dropout rate from the current
302 to 25Z! raising pupil learning achievements from a score of 40-
50X to about 60X; and improving teaching efficiency through a multi-
faceted attack on low quality in primary education by:
(i) strengthening the Curriculum Development Center (CDC), by
adding a textbook development unit, an examinations unit and an
audio-visual aids section;
(ii) reinforcing the examination and evaluation process by provid-
ing facilities and staff for contintuous educational evaluation;
(iii) coordinating curricula with teacher training through relocation
of the CDC to a site adjacent to the national center for inser-
vice staff training; and
(iv) improving facilities and staff quality at teacher training
colleges to help upgrade their teaching programs and improve
the performance of less qualified instructional staff; and
(c)  extending educational opportunities to hitherto underserved areas
and expanding existing schools to keep pace with continued popula-
tion growth by increasing the primary enrollment ratio from 582 to
68Z through the Provincial Primary Education Fund (PPEF), the
Government's program for allocating resources to the provinces under
its National Public Expenditure Plan (NPEP).
1.4       The project had the following components:  administration; curricu-
lum, textbooks, examinations and testing; teacher training; the PPEF; and
project evaluation and management.
Pro3ect Design and Organization
1.5       The project design is praiseworthy in several respects.  Its defini-
tion of the issues facing the educational system was comprehensive and the
components identified for support were well-structured. The major strategies
employed to address the issues stood on solid ground in terms of their tested
effectiveness, i.e., providing textbooks and teacher education to improve the
quality of education, and their attention to the administrative history of
PNG, i.e., combining associateships, fellowships and expert services as criti-
cal building blocks to institutionalizing management capacity. The blend of
project and sector components was innovative and conformed to the dual thrust



-3-
of the Project by assisting with national level responsibilities for quality
improvements in primary cutriculum, textbooks, examinations and teacher train-
ing, and at the provincial level in planning and managing the growth and
development (access and efficiency) of the primary education sector.
1.6       The project design is equally noteworthy, however, for the many
fronts it tried to cover which resulted in some mismatch between objectives
and the resources provided under the Project to reach them. For example,
responsibility for the provision of basic textbooks in the core subjects and
supplementary materials such as posters, readers and kits, radio broadcasts
and taped lessons, to improve the quality of primary education, were placed in
the direct charge of the Curriculum Development Division (CDD) of the NDOE.
As its name suggests, however, the CDD does curriculum work but lacked capa-
city and managerial experience in the technically complex areas of book
publishing and media education. In addition, CDD was also made responsible
for distribution and utilization of the textbooks and materials, two well-
identified bottlenecks in any book development system, without any clarifica-
tion by the Project as to what infrastructure, planning, funding and monitor-
ing systems should be provided to ensure that the books reached the schools
and the teachers were trained in their use. Also as this was the first time
that teachers and pupils in PNG's community schools would have textbooks, the
Project's aim of producing a variety of materials for the initial effort was
unrealistic vis-a-vis both the managerial and classroom teaching systems.
1.7       Another miscalculation was in the Project's provisions for the
planning and administration component. The technical assistance (TA) compo-
nent for the Regional Planning Advisors (RPAs), at four experts for eight
staff-years to work in 20 provinces with 20 Senior Professional Assistants
(SPAs), who were without any previous planning experience, was an understate-
ment of the needs. To introduce planning to a bureaucratic culture where the
rudiments for planning, such as having a reliable data base, were still in the
fledgling stage, to backstop the provincial staff initially in the preparation
of their five-year plans for community and lower secondary education and
thereafter help them update and adjust the plans, to assist in the training of
the provincial planners, to help prepare education budgets and write project
proposals and to help manage and monitor the implementation of the plans made
a formidable load for any one RPA especially as he had to service five
provinces and an equal number of SPAs.
1.8       The major innovation in the Project, the PPEF, was new as a system
for allocating resources within PNG and as a Bank strategy for sector-wide
assistance to education. However, the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) failed to
draw attention to the critical role to be played by the provincial proposal
review body or to the management and monitoring mechanisms needed to ensure
the soundness of the proposals and their subsequent implementation. In addi-
tion, no mechanism was specified for undertaking joint BanklGovernment reviews
of the PPEF's achievements and problems. The concept of increased retention
as a more efficient strategy for bringing the country closer to UPE, which was
part of the design, was either inadequately understood or was difficult to
implement, and therefore, did not enjoy a high Government funding priority.



-4-
Project Implementation
1.9       The Project was substantially completed and was fully disbursed by
the Closing Date. The Closing Date had been extended by 12 months from the
date expected at appraisal due mainly to early delays in curriculum develop-
ment, textbook production and fellowship availment, and, later, to financial
constraints. Annual project disbursements for the most part ran ahead of
appraisal estimates; the Cr:-dit and Loan proceeds were fully disbursed by
August 1988. Due to the de_line in the purchasing power of the kina (down
about 37? between 1982 and 1988 relative to the US dollar), local costs at
project closing (minus the local communities' share for which no records are
available) were 39Z higher than estimated at appraisal, while foreign costs
were lower by 16? and total project costs 121 higher. The actual share of
project costs which the Government financed increased from the 522 estimated
at appraisal to 63Z, while that financed from the Loan/Credit decreased from
482 at appraisal to 372.
1.10      Expert Services.  Overall TA provisions were 8? lower than the
amount actually used (86 vs. 93.4 man-years). TA estimates for textbook
writers, book production staff and the RPAs, in particular, were inadequate
with about 5O0 more in staff-years consumed by experts in these areas than was
allocated. In the RPAs' case, the additional staff-years still proved short
of requirements and came too late to influence significantly the momentum and
quality of work ensuing after the provincial plans had been prepared, namely
in preparation of project proposals, the rolling forward of the plans and the
implementation of the approved projects.
1.11      In the textbook component, serious oversights were the lack of
provision for a publishing manager, a book distribution expert and a coordi-
nator of teacher inservice training and book production. The absence of a
publishing manager in a situation where books were being originated for the
first time and where the institution being charged with the responsibility
lacked experience in publishing, translated into difficulties in planning and
scheduling of book production and in coordinating the work of the writers,
designers and editors, and into the somewhat confused lines of distinction
between curriculum and textbook development/writing. A good deal of the ener-
gies of the major actors in the curriculum and textbook production process at
the time of the Project, were engaged in defining roles and clarifying what
established book publishing practices were, before consensus was reached on a
13-stage publication process. The recruitment of a single firm with a Chief
Technical Advisor at its helm to provide the expertise needed in educational
publishing work would have helped a fledgling publishing organization acquire
a better understanding of the book development sy.item without going through
the inefficient trial and error method that they did. Quality would also have
varied less from one writing team to the next, and there would have been fewer
coordination problems among the professionals involved. Moreover, given that
in PrIG, experts are usually posted as staff or line personnel of the civil
service, it would have been more efficient for a Chief Technical Advisor
rather than the individual contract officers, to address common bureaucratic
procedural and personnel concerns and problems.
1.12      The most difficult problem in any textbook project is that of seeing
that the books, which are usually produced on schedule, are in the hands of
teachers and pupils alike at the desired time and that the teachers have



received training in the use of the books prior to their being introduced to
the pupils. These problems did not get the attention they deserved from
either the project designers or its implementors. There is little systematic
documentation available at the Materials Unit of the CDD to show how each book
title made its way from the PDOE's materials offices to the schools. The
length of time it has taken for these books to rea:h most schoo±-s has been
estimated at up to two years, depending on whether the province had properly
trained materials officers or funds to pay for demurrage and distribution
costs. An NDOE survey indicates that only 312 of schools receive their book
allocations within a year of their dispatch from Port Moresby.
1.13      The relocation of the CDD to the Port Moresby Inservice Teachers
College (POMITC) campus was to have physically facilitated coordination
between the curriculum/textbook work and the inservice training of teachers.
The need for TA to provide leadership and direction to implement the concept
was unforeseen. POMITC's brief under the project was to train community
school teachers but the target of its programs, about half the pool of 4,000
underqualified primary teachers, constituted but a fourth of the total primary
teaching force. Moreover, POMITC's programs of direct training of teachers
were terminated in 1987 after reaching only 38Z of their targets; since then
it has focused on the training of school staff such as headteachers and senior
teachers who then train the mass of teachers at the local level. This onward
training, however, was apparently left to the provincial authorities. As a
result, just over half (552) of primary teachers overall were trained in the
use of the mathematics, health and community life textbooks provided.
1.14      The use of project funds for the employment of a public administra-
tion advisor, unconnected with the Project, who was based at PNG's National
Department of Finance (NDF), met with questions from the succeeding Government
as well as from within the NDOE. The final cost of this advisor exceeded the
limit of US$300,000 provided in the 1984 amendment to the Credit and Loan
Agreements. Project personnel considered this diversion of funds from an
education project to a non-education expenditure, inappropriate.
1.15      In their lines of expertise, the specialists hired proved to be
highly competent as well as committed to the Project's objectives. One prob-
lem, however, was that the terms of office of these new public servants did
not take into consideration the time it takes to gain familiarity with PNG,
particularly with its bureaucratic procedures and culture. There was also the
fact that such a large group of specialists of varying backgrounds found
professional integration initially difficult and time-consuming, affecting
their productivity both individually and as part of a working team. Further-
more, delays in the recruitment of contract officers which had to follow the
Public Service Commission's regular procedures, meant delays in implementa-
tion. This was especially true in the textbook area where timely recruitment
of the various experts forming a team was essential.
1.16      Staff Training.  Overall fellowship availment was about 13 staff-
years short of SAR estimates (152 vs. about 165 staff-years). However, a
substantial number of nationals (261 officers vs. the SAR's 228) completed
either short- or long-term training locally or overseas, in preparation for
the jobs of education plannerladministrator, curriculum/textbooklexaminations
officer, teacher educator, librarian, Education Resource Center (ERC) manager
or evaluation officer. The wastage rates, as the various training programs



- 6 -
were in progress, were highest for the education planners with more than half
(522) of those enrolled either failing, withdrawing or deferring their
studies. Overall, the rate of retention of trained officers on jobs related
to their training is about 512.
1.17      Planning and Administration.  There were three main problems in
implementation of this component. The first was the restricted time within
which the provinces had to prepare their education plans and to design
projects for PPEF funding. As a result, project proposals were largely
concept/strategy papers with corresponding budget estimates and as such were
not very useful guides for systematic implementation. A second problem was
the erosion of NDOE's responsibility for ensuring that funding decisions were
the result of a thorough review of project proposals made by the provinces,
based on the pre-set criteria of relevance, feasibility and efficiency. This
erosion was a result of the Government's decision to sub-appropriate provin-
cial allocations from the PPEF to the provincial budget votes, which meant a
direct release of funds from the NDF to the provinces. The third and main
problem was that the PPEF had to follow regular NPEP procedures such that its
distinctiveness as a project mechanism with very specific purposes and eligi-
bility rules, was voided to a considerable extent. The fact that project
approval coincided with budget approval encouraged project designs with just
enough detail to win funding. This, coupled with a weak proposal review
mechanism, resulted in projects whose effectiveness of implementation was
dependent on less institutionalized, and therefore more variable and imper-
manent, motivations. A related problem was the lack of trained administra-
tors to implement and monitor the provincial projects, and inadequate NDOE
support to this activity.
Project Results
1.18      Overall.  The Project drew its justification from the expected bene-
fits of improved literacy and numeracy via improved access, retention and
quality, and of institution building in the primary (community) education
sector. In 1988, the grade one intake ratio leaped to 95? (from 722 in 1979)
while the ratio of enrolled girls to girls' population at the primary level
jumped from 482 to 682, translating into a 52 increase in girls' average share
of total primary enrollment (from 382 in 1979 to 432). The overall primary
enrollment ratio rose to 71.52 in 1988, a 13.52 increase from the 1979 level,
putting PNG more than two-thirds of the way to UPE. The situation grew worse,
however, in educational wastage, as average dropout rates went up to 382 in
1987 and 1988 (vs. 302 in 1979 and a target of 252). A significant achieve-
ment was the provision of textbooks in series covering core subjects for
grades 4-6, in numbers adequate to provide every two children with a complete
set. There was also a statistically significant increase in pupil achievement
between 1982 and 1986, based on standardized test scores. The number of
officers (261) completing training and assuming a variety of critical tasks in
promoting sustained educational growth and development was substantial. The
combined fellowship/associateship program in particular produced a critical
mass of well-qualified teacher educators for the teacher training colleges and
led to a doubling in the number of local staff at the colleges (from 282 in
1979 to 572 in 1987), which in turn translated into a 262 savings in salary
costs. Several institutional goals were achieved, in particular the creation
of an ongoing capacity to produce textbooks and the establishment of an evalu-
ation capacity linked to policy-making in the NDOE.



- 7 -
1.19      Access.  Increased access under the Project was to have been
achieved by a three-pronged strategy of increasing the enrollment of girls,
increasing intakes, and decreasing dropouts, to account for 502, 302 and 202
of the expected increase in access, respectively. As suggested by the dropout
statistics (para. 1.18), however, no contribution toward increased access was
realized from any improvement in the dropout rate. The opposite may even have
been true, that is, as more pupils from the disadvantaged povulations
(including girls) swell enrollments, wastage may also increase, especially in
the absence of significant efforts to encourage parents to leave their chil-
dren in school. The formula for allocating PPEF funds among provinces delibe-
rately targeted disadvantaged regions, and this strategy has significantly
reduced interprovincial disparities in enrollment ratios.
1.20      Efficiency.  The heavy reliance on increased intake of grade one
pupils as an enrollment expansion strategy was doubtless responsible for much
of the 13.52 growth in primary school participation rates. However, average
pupil:teacher ratios have stagnated at their 1979 level of 1:31. This has not
been for lack of initiatives directed toward rationalizing these ratios.
Nationally, annual ceilings for teacher positions were set while school con-
solidation, alternate year intakes and multigrade teaching were implemented
where possible at the provincial level. Bearing in mirit, however, that as
most of the enrollment expansion in the 1980s has been in remote areas of the
country with widely dispersed populations, it appears that were it not for the
adoption of these efficiency measures, the pupil:teacher ratio might not have
remained at its pre-project level and in fact could have fallen.
1.21      Quality.  Educational performance has apparently been increasing,
the major qualitative inputs under the Project as yet have had very limited
opportunity to make an impact. The first textbooks under the Project became
available only in mid-1987, while training of community school teachers in
their use reached only 382 of the teaching force, and provincial projects
addressed to qualitative improvements were quite dispersed and small in scope.
Until an impact evaluation study is undertaken, the rise in the 1986 education
standard vis-a-vis that of 1982 cannot be empirically linked to the Project.
1.22      Institution Building.  The ProJect's institution building components
covered a wide range of educational activities with the aim of developing a
permanent capacity to: (a) undertake medium-term planning for educational
development; (b) ensure a continuous supply of relevant textbooks; (c) coor-
dinate textbook development with preservice and inservice teacher training;
and (d) monitor and evaluate provincial projects as well as school quality
standards.
1.23      In planning, while all provinces prepared their five-year plans for
community education for 1983-88, this process did not contribute to the
institutionalization of the capacity to plan among the provincial SPAs.
Because of time constraints for production of the provincial plans, the RPAs
were reduced to simply writing them. This left the SPAs with little under-
standing of, or practice in, formulating plans, and therefore, they were
unable to adjust the plans to conform to changes in educational policies or
the situation in the provinces. Thus, only half the provinces rolled their
1983 plans forward to guide their succeeding educational activities. At
neither national nor provincial levels has education planning been firmly



- 8 -
established as a clear necessity. This is also shown by the lack of trained
planners in SPA positions (8 of the 20 SPAs at present have no training what-
soever in planning). Coupled with the prevailing perception of planners as
merely data collectors/consolidators and the rapid turnover of education mana-
gers, the general result has been a lack of continuity in policies and policy
implementation and a weak environment for planning. The inadequate support
given to provincial planning by the NDOE and most of all, the absence of a
strong and straight-forward connection between plan development and requests
for funding on one hand and plan implementation/accounta Lity and funds
monitoring/accounting on the other, as part of an integrated planning-
budgetary-evaluation cycle, has meant an incomplete planning infrastructure.
1.24      With considerable teething pains, the CDD has, under the Project,
produced its first set of textbooks. In its pipeline for the five-year period
beginning in 1989, is continuing work on curriculum development and in the
writing of new textbooks (for the lower primary grades in mathematics and
social/spiritual education and for the upper primary grades in English to
complete the Melanesian series) and the revision and resupply of the textbooks
in English, mathematics, health and community life developed under the
Project. The process of book writing and production is by now clearly under-
stood at the CDD but the management, organization and staffing of the publish-
ing process is still somewhat confused with that of the curriculum research
and development processes, such that in some cases it has been the textbooks
guiding the curriculum rather than vice-versa. This situation has resulted
partly from time pressures to produce books and partly from the assumption of
both tasks by the textbook writers due to a shortage of curriculum specia-
lists. Curriculum work at the CDD must be put in its proper perspective lest
textbooks become incorrectly perceived as the curriculum, and textbook revi-
sion as curriculum revision.
1.25      Minimal results have been obtained in coordinating textbook deve-
lopment, pupil (learning) evaluation and the inservice training of teachers.
The physical integration of the CDC and NDOE's Measurement Services Unit (MSU)
with POMITC may have been a necessary first step. However, as procedures for
the inservice training of teachers both in the use of the new textbooks and
new test materials were unclear, well-meaning efforts during implementation to
draw up a coordinated agenda were not fruitful. It must be mentioned, how-
ever, that coordination among units in the NDOE has no established history.
What this has meant is that books rushed to production to improve learning,
and evaluation instruments developed to better monitor the quality of the
education being given, did not effectively filter down to the mass of class-
room teachers, and their full education potential therefore remains to be
realized.
1.26      The place of POMITC in the overall structure for inservice teacher
training is changing. Previously it was the national center where community
school teachers went for residential studies. These training efforts are now
being decentralized to the provinces to make them more relevant and cost-
effective. This is both reasonable and philosophically consistent with
provincial autonomy in managing the community school sector. POMITC now for
the most part trains provincial trainers, headteachers and senior teachers,
who then train their own teachers. What this has meant, however, is only 30Z
utilization of the POMITC facilities that were expanded under the Project.



1.27      The function of monitoring and evaluating education processes and
performance at a level useful for policy and programming decisions has been
established on a solid footing with the Project's support for the MSU and what
is now NDOE's Research and Evaluation Unit (REU). Over the project period,
the MSU has made continuing improvements in its evaluation instruments for
measuring the quality of the education system and has provided useful informa-
tion and yearly analyses of the standards being achieved by community school
leavers. In 1987, testing was reoriented towards measuring the basic skills
learned by pupils (generally referred to as criterion-referenced testing/
evaluation). The REU has proved its worth by alerting decision makers to the
problems and issues of project implementation with its in-depth and skillful
monitoring and evaluation of each of the project components, so much so that
it now serves as the policy research and evaluation arm of the NDOE.
1.28      A major issue in institution building is the retention of trained
staff, not just within the overall NDOE or PDOEs, but in the posts therein
which would make the fullest use of their qualifications. Only half of those
the Project helped to acquire critically needed qualifications and skills have
been retained, which is a very high rate of wastage that needs to be
addressed. This was due in large part to inadequate planning for the re-entry
of trained staff in terms of providing posts relevant to their training as
well as housing at their field locations.
Proiect Sustainability
1.29      The chances for sustaining the programs designed to support quality
improvements at the NDOE level are reasonably high. In textbooks and teaching
materials, the Government has committed itself to fund a resupply program as a
matter of first priority, under its Public Investment Program (PIP) for 1989-
93. In addition, textbooks produced under the Project have now become avail-
able in commercial editions; this could stimulate the provincial authorities
and community school Boards of Management to make direct purchases so as to
meet more fully their constituents' book requirements or even simply for
replacing lost or damaged stock.
1.30      The 1987 Denning Report (financed under the Project) which undertook
a review of the textbook situation in PNG, recommended tendering for the publ-
ishing and printing of subject textbooks in a series, to ensure continuity of
book content and presentational styles. This recommendation is being pursued.
The shift of major financial responsibility for these recurrent costs to the
provinces is not expected until about the mid-1990s.
1.31      In curriculum development, primary instructional programs focus on
community living and, associated with this, experiment with the use of the
vernacular for teaching pre-schoolers. Evaluation, whether of educational
standards or Departmental programs, has developed firm roots in the NDOE
structure. Greater efforts are needed, however, in utilizing research
results, especially in translating the results of MSU's standards-monitoring
work into provincial strategies for change. The sluggish development of the
ERCs is likely to be overcome by the new staff development policy which calls
for decentralized training of teachers. Under decentralization, provinces can
be expected to establish and/or extend regular support to their own ERCs so
they can serve as both inservice training centers and as educational materi-
als supply and distribution points. NDOE should be prepared to provide ade-



- 10 -
quate TA to the provinces in this regard. One way would be to include an
orientation course on the organization and management of ERCe in the trainers'
training program given by NDOE's Staff Development Unit (SDU).
1.32      With regard to organization and staffing, consideration should be
given to the Denning report's recommendation (para. 1.31) to provide a sepa-
rate, distinct and appropriately staffed unit for textbook distribution within
CDD's Materials Office; this unit would be responsible for the timely delivery
of textbooks in desired quantities to their final destinations. The loss of
more staff trained under the Project might be prevented through legal measures
(such as obligatory service on return from their studies), as well as by
establishing career paths and improving working conditions (such as by provid-
ing housing). The fellows who trained under the Project could also be orga-
nized into a professional club to provide regular opportunities for them to
exchange ideas on their work experiences and problems and to serve as an
advisory group to the NDOE.
1.33      In the area of resource management, in particular for the efficient
use of existing and future resources for the attainment of enrolment growth
and quality improvement, NDF policies with respect to planning as a require-
ment for funding should be stabilized. Currently a Resource Management System
(EMS) is being put together by the Prime Minister's Office as a tool for
reviewing the programs of individual Departments. The RMS is expected to be
in place by 1990/91. At NDOE, on the other hand, clear policies on intake
patterns, pupil:teacher ratios and pupil retention would go a long way toward
furthering UPE which would be distinguished for its high quality and lower
costs. There are lessons to be learned for education from the years 1986,
1987 and 1988 when PNG's economy experienced a downturn. At the time,
resources for schools fell to a level that necessitated a major review of
policies on intake and staffing. Many provinces responded to the call so well
that enrollments grew at an even higher average annual rate than during the
PPEF years, 72 compared to 42, while the number of teachers grew by only an
average 2.72 annually compared with 52 during the PPEF years. The resources
for growth are already in the system and need only more efficient husbanding.
Bank Performance
1.34      Over the life of the Project only about 3 staff-weeks annually were
recorded for supervision. This is low compared with Bank-wide averages in the
sector and particularly low for a relatively complex project with many soft-
ware components and many characteristics of a sector loan. The recorded
figures appear to be an underestimate given that an in-depth mid-term review
of the Project was conducted during 1984-85 in the context of preparation and
appraisal of a proposed second primary education project. This review
identified constraints and design deficiencies in the ongoing Project and
proposed corrective measures to be taken in the second phase project.



- 11 -
1.35      After appraisal of the proposed second primary project there was a
change of Government and the Bank was advised that the new Government did not
wish to proceed with the proposed project. Subsequently the Bank decided to
carry out a sector study on the costs and financing of education in PNG. This
report recommended that the Government continue to give priority to primary
education while suggesting measures to improve efficiency in the use of resou-
rces. It was sent to the Government in June 1987.
Borrower Performance
1.36      The overall performance of the NDOE in project management and evalu-
ation is impressive. The Project was well-managed and may qualify as one of
the best monitored education projects ever financed by the Bank. This perfor-
mance is significant also as this Project is only the country's second educa-
tion project and for NDOE, virtually the first to be in its charge as NDF had
overall responsibility for implementing the First Education Project (Ed I-
Credit 661-PNG). During implementation the NDOE created: a Management and
Planning Unit (MPU) to provide continuing TA to provinces in planning and
management; a Curriculum Implementation Office in the CDD responsible for
preparing inservice teacher training packages for the new curriculum and text-
books; and the position of Provincial Materials and Supply Officers (PMSOs).
It also conducted research on various education policy issues (examinations,
textbooks, etc.).
1.37      There were initial difficulties in coordination within NDOE as no
special units were created if it appeared that implementation tasks could be
carried out by existing Departmental units. Although early delays can be
attributed to this lack of coordination, the strategy of integration of the
Project into the regular bureaucracy acquitted itself reasonably well.
1.38      Special commendation needs to be given to the REU, which was estab-
lished under the Project, and to the full support extended to it by NDOE
managers. The REU proved effective in backstopping the project with its in-
depth analysis of the issues facing implementation, project component by com-
ponent, its recommendations for resolving the issues, and its frank and
professional reporting.
1.39      The Project Management Committee (PMC) was effective in dealing with
administrative, financial and coordination problems among government
Departments, with the competent support of the Project Management Unit, but
did a limited amount of work on project content and methodological issues, or
on intra-departmental problems. Consideration should be given to the estab-
lishment of an internal NDOE committee, chaired at the level of the Deputy
Secretary or Secretary, for this latter management task.
Lessons Learned
1.40      Two broad lessons were learned from experience under the Project:
(a)  Production of textbooks under a strict timetable is pointless if thp
books are not distributed on time, and if teachers are not promptly
and adequately trained in the use of the books. Moreover, the
desirability of providing a variety of instructional materials,
after having had virtually none, should be weighed against the



- 12 -
absorptive capability of the administrative and teaching systems;
and
(b) Institutionalizing planning is a long-term proposition. To this
end, it is necessary, but clearly not enough, to have trained
planners. A reliable data base, a stable policy environment, ample
political support and a well articulated system for resource alloca-
tion, being sine gua non to effective and sustained planning, will
need to be addressed with equal vigor in future planning projects.



- 13 -
PART II
MAIN FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED (BORROWER)
Introduction
2.1       For the Primary Education Project, more commonly referred to as
Education II (Ed II) within the PNG context, personnel within the NDOE were
given primary responsibility for completion of the PCR, as the NDOE was the
lead agency during implementation. Discussions with the Bank's representative
were held in May 1988, to identify relevant issues and data for parts 1. and
3. These parts have since been finalized by the Bank, but as of this writing,
have not as yet been seen by the Borrower. Consequently, this report cannot
comment on the adequacy or accuracy of the factual information contained in
part 3 nor the analysis of implementation provided in part 1. Rather this
report concentrates on the performance of both the NDOE and the Bank and the
lessons to be learned from their efforts to develop the primary education
subsector from 1982-88 through the Ed II Project.
2.2       This draft of part 2 is a joint effort of the present Director of
the REU and the former Project Manager, both key positions within Ed II's
project management. The discussion and analyses therefore rely heavily on
their interpretations of the extensive data compiled over the Project's his-
tory. Due special mention for creating this data are Drs. Vin McNamara and
Charles Currin who were instrumental senior officers at the preparation/design
and the implementation stages, respectively.
2.3       The report is organized into three major sections each containing
separate parts on the performance and the lessons to be learned at that stage.
The first section considers preparation and provides insights into the his-
torical development of the Project and the initial interaction of the two
parties. The second section reviews the design and organization of the
Project. The final section deals with implementation issues and concludes
with a summary statement. Particular points which the authors feel are more
important are printed in bold type.
2.4       In many ways Ed II was successfully planned and implemented, given
its complexity. However, to emphasize what has been learned or perhaps, what
has been learned and is being forgotten, tends to stress the negative rather
than the positive. This is the approach adopted by this report and no
apologies are made in this regard as long as it stimulates discussion for
improvement.
General Project Preparation
2.5       In general, any project is inevitably a compromise which takes into
account the views of the relevant parties: in this case, the Bank and the
national and provincial levels of government within PNG. Ed II was a well-
balanced project in the sense that few aspects of the overall program were
forced on the Government of the day. In most cases, the national goals for
education coincided with the Bank's philosophy. In a few instances, each side
in the negotiations suggested new initiatives which were accepted by the
other. In summary, PNG recognized the importance for development of investing



- 14 -
in basic education while at the same time the Bank was moving away fron. exter-
nally imposed targets and beginning to recognize the importance of internal
motivation and planning, just as PNG was developing this capability.
2.6       This coincidence of interests and flexibility in funding policies
resulted in a clear conceptual foundation for the Project as well as practical
strategies to meet identified Government needs at the provincial level and
accountability at the national and international levels. The Government and
the NDOE were especially thorough at the preparation stage. However, despite
these efforts, beginning nearly a decade ago, the lack of commitment to
detailed project planning and management at all levels is still a major
concern.
2.7       Preparation:  An Overview.  Joint planning is of course an inter-
active process, dependent as much on the availability of a local plan as on
the willingness of the international agency to take account of it. PNG's
planning changed dramatically in the 1970s, resulting in the sophisticated
National Public Expenditure Plan and a national development policy that all
foreign aid must be based on the NPEP. Under the NPEP, recurrent expenditures
were frozen and additional revenue was carefully channeled into development
priorities. Departments could learn' budget increases by planning practical
projects that fit with national goals. An example was the Secondary Schools
Curriculum Extension Project (SSCEP) whose evaluation was included under Ed
II. In 1978, the NPEP instituted sectoral programs under which departmental
proposals with common goals and provincial targets could be managed together
under one "sectors, such as primary education, rather than trying to implement
an unwieldy number of small projects.
2.8       Within this budgetary context, PNG education laws mandated from
1970, that both national as well as provincial plans be developed and that
substantial powers for planning be devolved to the provinces. The national
plan proved controversial, especially regarding priorities for UPE versus
secondary expansion; but eventually the proponents of UPE won the debate and
the NPEP incorporated annual increases for the additional teachers needed to
achieve UPE by 1996. However, the decentralization of primary planning meant
that each of the 19 provinces had to consent to the national goal. Many
provinces resisted, arguing that many quality needs related to conditions and
standards should take priority over new teachers' salaries. The Government
relented and allowed flexibility as long as funds were spent on primary educa-
tion and provincial governments had written plans for spending the money.
Provinces were not keen to write plans, however.
2.9       It was against this background that project preparation occurred.
The initial proposal, drafted with Unesco aid in 1979, concentrated on primary
curriculum materials. The rationale was that despite increased investments,
enrollments were not growing due to the high incidence of wastage. More
interesting materials would increase student interest and improve classroom
teaching, thus leading to better retention and efficiency. Over the next
year, negotiations with the Bank began, and the Project shifted away from the
traditional, visible investment products (buildings and capital works) to one
that contained a large recurrent component as well as the sectoral program
whose outputs were not as yet determined at alll



- 15 -
2.10      When the observations by Unesco were combined with the pressure of
provincial governments to choose their own sectoral projects, it seemed sen-
sible to allow more investment in quality projects with the choice being made
at the provincial rather than the national level. Major changes during Bank
negotiations included:
(a) Provincial Education Planning. Although not a large change finan-
cially, the venue for training was changed from overseas to
provincially-based through on-the-job experiences guided by RPAs.
(b) Provincial Primary Education Fund. This was the sectoral program
which increased the Loan/Credit by about one-third and marked a new
and significant departure by the Bank whose previous policy was not
to lend money to unspecified projects. Also radical at the time was
the inclusion of some new teachers' salaries.
(c) The Research and Evaluation Unit. This was a Bank initiative and
was expected to have a lasting influence on Departmental management.
(d) Adviser on Low-Cost Construction. This TA arose from the provinces'
inability to spend funds (K 100,000 annually) appropriated for
teacher housing.
(e) Integration. This subproject was only implied at the Project's
start and was to be defined later after the physical relocation of
inservice, curriculum and inspection functions together at one site.
It arose from the fact that the existing organizational structure
had led in practice to very little real coordination of policies.
(f) Preparation of a Third Education Project. This was a Bank initia-
tive for secondary education welcomed by the PNG Government.
(g) Non-formal Education. This was a major focus of Ed I, a priority of
the Bank at the time and a component for continued funding until the
final draft of Ed II. It was dropped when the Office of Village
Development failed to show interest or provide worthwhile proposals.
In this case, PNG interests took precedence over the Bank's.
2.11      Government Performance.  The performance of the Government in
project preparation was extensive and timely, leading to a comprehensive and
generally well-planned project at the macro-level. Several factors contri-
buted to this which are as relevant today as they were then. The final
project was the culmination of a series of events that began internally with
intensive discussions among national and provincial policy-makers on priori-
ties for a Five-Year Education Plan. Notably, the Ministry of Education and
its NDOE took the initiative to define issues and choices from an educational
viewpoint to meet the legal requirement for a national plan. National
agencies, such as the National Planning Office, and the Departments of
Decentralization and Finance, worked constructively with politicians to
achieve a medium-term consensus on policies, targets and resource allocations
for the sector as a whole. Decentralization and provincial needs were
addressed and the whole agenda was then supported by a national commitment
under the MPEP for funding. This was followed in rapid succession by a



- 16 -
request to the Bank to assist with external funding and a response in the form
of Loan and Credit Agreements covering finance as well as implementation.
2.12      Although the overall financial commitment to the sector was not
maintained under the NPEP, when placed under an international agreement, the
commitment to the primary subsector became less prone to budgetary reductions
or policy changes resulting from changes in political leadership. In the
absence of an official education plan throughout the eighties, Ed II in effect
became the de-facto blueprint for primary education.
2.13      Lessons.  What is to be learned?  Not since 1978 has there been a
coordinated strategy for the sector as a whole. Several have been attempted.
Given the many different agents responsible for defining priorities, allocat-
ing resources and implementing policy, it is imperative that the PNG education
system develop a mechanism that fosters joint decision-making, consensus of
direction and rational funding. It must obviously allow for political modera-
tion, yet maintain a sense of cohesion within its very selective and decentra-
lized structure. Perhaps the RMS will provide the solution to sector-wide
management; but unless the issue is resolved, the present system will continue
to plan isolated projects reacting to annual budget and manpower ceilings
rather than initiating a coordinated, medium-term program based on sound edu-
cation principles and planning precepts--the apparent context in which Ed II
developed.
2.14      The Ministry of Education was better structured and had more experi-
enced staff for comprehensive planning at the turn of the decade than it has
today. Through the NDOE's Planning Services Division and Overseas Aid Unit,
it actively solicited short-term TA through UNESCO to identify needs and used
consultants to define key Ed II subprojects in measurement and testing,
planning and administration, and evaluation. Senior staff of the NDOE worked
closely with these advisers as well as with the Bank to ensure that country
needs matched the international proposals.
2.15      Today's Project Coordination Division emphasizes internal project
management rather than longer-term sector planning. The Management and
Planning Unit within the Division has the potential to coordinate planning and
data collection among NDOE divisions, as well as across provincial divisions.
As yet, this potential is unrealized. With Bank assistance, this potential
has been enhanced by a comprehensive study of the financing of education in
PNG and the development of a computer model to compare the relative impact of
financial resources across subsectors; however, these planning tools have yet
to stimulate the common dialogue intended among national planners, budget and
manpower officers, church representatives and educators. Even in managing
specific projects under the present PIP, experienced manpower is limited
within the Division and very little effort has been placed on training
national managers.
2.16      The NDOE also lacks a defined role vis-a-vis other line departments
in liaising with possible aid donors. The present Government's aid policy
emphasizes the identification of a lead donor per sector and the importance of
grants (credits) before loans, but departmental roles in the implementation of
this policy are not clear. A position is available within the Project
Coordination Division to assume this role for the NDOE, but it remains vacant



- 17 -
and unfunded and was recently downgraded. Efforts are underway to centralize
this function across all sectors within the NDF; however, the operational
details of the initiative need to be clarified for line departments like
education.
2.17      Moving from preparation into the pre-implementation stage, the NWOB
gave a high priority to the recruitment of Ed II TA or 'contract officers" and
intentionally integrated them into line positions so that interaction with
recurrent staff was maximized and fresh perspectives debated. The identifica-
tion process included international advertisements, telephone interviews where
personal contact was not feasible and conscientious follow-up of references.
More recent recruitment efforts have not been as thorough with a tendency to
recruit in-country contract officers who present fewer administrative hurdles
to employment. On the other hand, they tend to be less-qualified compared to
overseas expertise and the system loses the opportunity to invigorate itself,
as re-deployed officers have little opportunity to upgrade their qualifica-
tions while under contract.
2.18      Many parallels can be drawn between the situation in education today
and a decade ago. Extensive documentation exists on virtually every subsector
as to needs, strategies and costs, including an internally drafted, but
unofficial education plan. The present Government perceives education and
training as a priority and is implementing a new national training policy
together with the RMS. A plan is being developed for higher education. What
remains is to bring the parts together into a comprehensive program or
national education strategy outlining priorities, costs end projects by sub-
sector. Unesco is again prepared to offer TA which could be the catalyst for
the Ministry of Education to obtain political consensus and funding commit-
ments from both the PNG Government and aid donors.
2.19      Bank Performance and Lessons.  Little documentation is available to
judge Bank performance at the preparation stage, except in hindsight through
the SAR contained in the Ed II project documents. Because the Project was
already in an advanced state of preparation with the support of the
Government, appraisal was shorter than normal. It was also indicative of the
Bank's confidence in the country's financial management under the NPEP.
2.20      Hcwever, two NDOE functions, preservice teacher education and com-
munity school inspections, should have been recognized during preparation for
their importance to project aims; but were not. Most of the identified
strategies (except textbcoks) only indirectly affected learning outcomes in
the classroom. Upgrading of teachers college staff through training fellow-
ships was appropriate, but little attention was paid to curriculum development
and evaluation, coordination of forward planning. inspections, ancillary staff
or facilities such as libraries. Although beginning teachers are a major
factor in the quality of learning outcomes, a resource for expansion and a
consumer of educational resources. they did not figure significantly in
project preparation.
2.21      Also inspectors are the only education officials who actually visit
schools on a regular basis. As such they should have a prominent role to play
in monitoring textbook supply and use; verifying enrollment and retention
data; planning school locations and facilities; evaluating teacher appoint-



- 18 -
ments and performance; and identifying the nature and extent of needs by
school and by district so that provincial projects under national schemes like
the PPEF are more relevant. Their role, responsibilities and needs should
have been more prominent in the project equation.
Project Design and Organization
2.22      Project design and organization were not thoroughly addressed at the
preparation stage by either the Government or the Bank. The SAR gave a
general outline of the aims and basic strategies of Ed II subprojects, but did
not provide an operational plan for specific subprojects (see diagram on the
next page). Various constraints to proper implementation and monitoring
remained unidentified, and consequently, inputs in several areas were insuffi-
cient to meet project targets. The Government also underestimated the
resources and the complexity of the tasks required to meet perceived needs,
particularly in project planning and management at all levels. Many of these
oversights were identified early on by both the NDOE and the Bank and culmi-
nated in a major planning effort for a proposed second primary education
project. However, a change of Government, with differing priorities for
education, did not implement the follow-on project, which prevented the
original oversights from ever being fully addressed during the lifetime of
Ed II.
Diagram Relating Ed II Components to Stated Aims



- 19 -
2.23      Government Performance.  Most of the individual strategies (sub-
projects) to achieve project aims had general rather than specific objectives
and minimal guidelines for implementation. There is evidence to suggest that
this may have been deliberate NDOE policy in order to allow project personnel
more freedom to assess their personal strengths relative to the tasks and then
refine subproject imp].ientation for maximum effect. Such a viewpoint may
have merit in a less complex situation, but Ed II was very complex by PNG
standards, especially the interdependence of its subprojects and levels of
government involved. For the sake of efficiency and clarity of purpose,
detailed implementation plans sad targets by subproject should have been made
explicit at the design stage.
2.24      The NDOE recognized the problem in late 1982 and organized a work-
shop through its Project Management Unit and the REU to define subproject
implementation more succinctly and the roles and responsibilities of indivi-
duals and their divisions in relation to one another and to overall project
aims. However, one such subproject on integration was never able to develop
an operational strategy against which progress could be measured.
2.25      Perhaps the most important design oversight which had a negative
impact on implementation was the underestimating and timing of technical
assistance in two areas: (i) RPAs required to improve resource management in
the provinces; and (ii) textbook writers. Only one RPA was employed beyond
the scheduled two staff-years; yet other RPAs never got beyond the production
of written plans in their efforts to improve provincial resource management.
There remains today a glaring need for on-the-job training of provincial
administrators in general management, planning and project implementation. In
the case of the textbook writers, extensions continued until nearly every
textbook was in manuscript form; yet much of their first two years was spent
in restructuring curriculum rather than writing textbooks. If curriculum
reorganization had been identified as a constraint earlier, the employment of
writers could have been scheduled more efficiently.
2.26      Project management, given defined budgetary limits on TA, was forced
to make difficult decisions early in project implementation based on the rela-
tive manpower needs required by subprojects to achieve results. Decisions on
RPA extensions came early and extensions were not given priority. Textbook
writing came later and extensions were granted. The net result was that total
TA staff-years consumed by the project were close to original targets, but
within subprojects there were substantial differences. Overruns can generally
be attributed to lack of adequate planning and underestimating of the
complexity of the task to be undertaken. Underutilization or even targeted
use, however, does not mean that a subproject met its objectives. It is more
likely to mean, as in the case of RPAs, that problems with delays in recruit-
ment or early resignations were encountered and resulted in less effective
time spent on task. In both the instances cited (and there are others), a
more detailed design may have identified constraints which would have led to a
more accurate assessment of the amount of TA needed by the subprojects and a
better timing of when that assistance was actually required.
2.27      Another major weakness related to the project organization of EdL II
was not as obvious as TA. It was the failure (i) to recognize the complexity
of the tasks and the pace required to meet objectives and (ii) to provide



- 20 -
adequate management structures and procedures to supervise staff, monUt.r
implementation and report on progress and constraints so that targets w.Wdd be
achieved. The example here is the NDOE but it could equally apply to indivi-
dual provinces.
2.28      Ed II brought two dozen new staff and many new activities into the
NDOE in a very short period of time. This caused conflict between new ideas
and established procedures (an understood rather than explicitly stated
project aim). It meant that existing upper and middle level officers often
had to supervise an extensive range of new and complex activities without
extra professional guidance. Many NDOE officers had highly developed adminis-
trative and financial skills, but lacked professional project development or
supervisory skills. This situation sometimes resulted in inadequate project
supervision and follow-up, overload of middle and upper levels of management
and no recourse within the system to obtain additional support or training in
these important areas.
2.29      The project management structures for Ed II did not always interact
in a coordinated manner to achieve a common purpose. There were missing
links. Project management is a term which involves administration, financial
management, and education management. For Ed II, all three elements existed
to some degree in different units or committees. Frequently, various levels
of management had to modify policy, address operational issues or follow-up
past decisions without the benefit of available information or expertise due
to an inefficient management structure.
2.30      The structure established to manage Ed II was based to a large
degree on what existed, such as the Secretary's Staff Meeting (SSM), the
Project Management Unit and the Planning Services Division. To this were
added the PMC and the REU. Project management appeared to have had the fol-
lowing weaknesses:
(a) the SSM had too diverse a membership and agenda to focus on project
issues;
(b) the Project Management Unit dealt largely with administration and
finance;
(c)  the REU lacked the capacity to coll-.-t a:d organize the general
education data (as opposed to projE-  data) needed to do adequate
systems analysis;
(d) the PMC did not have a membership appropriate to deal with the
education aspects of the project or policy issues related to the
provinces; further the Secretary for Education was placed in a posi-
tion of representing the NDOE's project interests as well as the
Government's interests as Chairperson of the PMC;
(e) there was no regular meeting of senior officers involved in the
project to coordinate activities. especially across divisions, antd
ensure follow-up of necessary actionsz and



- 21 -
(f) after the departure of the RPAs, there was inadequate support in
basic management and planning for provincial staff responsible for
the implementation of a significant number of key activities.
2.31      The REU also had difficulties in clarifying with senior officers the
use and dissemination of its quarterly monitoring reports. The reports nor-
mally pinpointed operational issues and suggested improvements; less fre-
quently, policy issues were raised. However, in all cases the REU argued that
all project staff should receive copies of what was being recommended about
their work. This would also keep project staff informed of developments
across the project. Only after several years was their viewpoint accepted.
2.32      Lessons.  These examples of constraints to implementation could have
been minimized if pr-oject design had been more thorough and had produced
detailed implementation plans bv subproject.  Although the RMS is still under
development, its project cycle emphasizes the importance of detailed planning
and regular monitoring. All new education product ideas under the RMS should
be planned in much greater detail than Ed II. Consultants and/or departmental
and provincial working groups should prepare the implementation plan for
inclusion in the program documents. Such a plan should serve as the basic
guide for subproject development and implementation. At the primary level it
should draw upon the experiences of Ed II, the Task Forces, the Matane,
McNamara, and Bank reports on finance, the proposed second primary education
project SAR, and other relevant materials. It should as a minimum include:
(a)  a basic rationale;
(b)  general aims or objectives;
(c)  detailed objectives with measurable indicators and targets for
achievement;
(d)  details of implementation strategies;
(e)  anticipated constraints (socio-economic, financial, technical,
policy, and institutional) and means of resolving them;
(f)  an implementation timetable;
(g)  staffing and training requirements;
(h)  costing;
(i)  a supervisory mechanism;
(j)  implications/overlap with other departments, divisions or units; and
(k)  alternative strategies, together with the reasons why they were not
adopted.
2.33      Some of the weaknesses stated under "Government Performance" have
begun to be addressed by the NDOE as well as other Government agencies. The
NDOE has modified its structure and created the MPU with the responsibilitv to
collect and organize general education data through its National Planner andi
to assist provincial staff through its Regional Management and Planning
Advisers. The National Training Policy should also assist middle and uplipt-
level managers to cope with the increased complexity of project management and1
supervision. As the training policy becomes a reality, there will be a need
to clarify responsibilities among national and provincial departments so that
resources and efforts are not duplicated.
2.34      Yet there is still scope, especially in the area of the education
aspects of project management, to create or streamline structures within the



- 22 -
NDOE. An example in this case would be a Primary Education Project Steering
or Implementation Committee which would:
(a) review project progress and constraints on a quarterly basis
(quarterly reviews still focus on finance and manpower rather than
on project objectives and achievements);
(b) review the status of policy changes needed to achieve project aims;
(c) consider monitoring and evaluation reports on strategies, issues and
constraints;
(d) facilitate cross-divisional coordination;
(e) review the status of actions agreed to at a previous meeting; and
(f) ensure thorough follow-through of agreed decisions.
2.35      Initiatives in 1989 to encourage such detailed planning for Public
Investment Projects within the NDOE or to establish proper management struc-
tures and procedures indicate that the lessons of Ed II have not been fully
appreciated and applied in new situations.
2.36      Bank Performance.  The issues raised in this section pose the ques-
tion of who is ultimately responsible for determining the adequacy of the
final project design. Obviously the NDOE could have done more, but one would
assume the Bank's appraisal team would have been in the better position to
make a final judgement. Since additional information is not available on such
details, no further comment is warranted.
2.37      The Bank should have been more sensitive to the implementation capa-
city of the NDOE in its design of the Secondary Education Project (Ed III-
Loan 2395-PNG). Ed III was designed to use many of the same resources as Ed
II in the production and distribution of educational materials, especially
textbooks. Delays were apparent in Ed II when Ed III was approved. This
resulted in continuing constraints to efficient production and distribution in
both projects. Better coordination of information between these subsectors
within the Bank may have delayed the start-up of the textbook component of Ed
III and improved the implementation of Ed II.
2.38      The Bank policy on recurrent funding through the PPEF may have been
innovative and flexible, but its written procedures for implementation and
loan reimbursement were one of the most detailed of the SAR. Although on
paper the procedures appeared reasonable. in reality they proved too rigorous
for the capabilities of local personnel, especially at the provincial lpvel.
In the PNG context, the PPEF or sectoral program has been a national  o(.li'v
tool for addressing disparities in access and opportunity.  In future design:
for primary projects, more attention must be paid not only to redefining the
conditions of such grants, but also the national will to enforce them and the
support required for provincial expertise to meet them. In most provinces,
additional finance tied to detailed conditions will not efficiently increase
enrollments or effectively improve quality until and unless trained and moti-



- 23 -
vated personnel are appointed to plan, manage and evaluate provincial educa-
tion systems.
2.39      The consultants used by the Government to clarify the aims of cer-
tain subprojects (planning, measurement and evaluation) did not appear to
contribute directly to the design of subprojects in these areas. Again this
may have been deliberate, but it also opened the door to different interpreta-
tions during implementation. The status of these Government consultant
reports should have been more clearly stated in the SAR.
2.40      Lessons.  The effort to produce a detailed implementation plan by
subproject is required even in relatively small projects such as Ed II. Size
of the loan is not an indicator of complexity. The Bank would appear to have
been over-confident in expecting the NPEP system to provide adequate and
enforceable guidelines for detailed planned and cooperative management between
and within government agencies. As vehicles to improve financial budgeting
and control, the NPEP and its successors have been relatively effective. As a
means to ensure project objectives are being met and are providing benefits as
planned, they have been much less effective.
2.41      Future projects should be appraised with specific attention to plan-
ning details and management mechanisms which bring together those agencies
whose cooperation is crucial to success or whose noninvolvement may become a
barrier to implementation. Ed II examples include Provincial Affairs, NDOE
and the provinces in providing housing for library advisers; Administrative
Services, NDOE and the Government Supply and Tenders Board in tendering for
learning materials; curriculum development, materials production and materials
distribution all within one NDOE division in establishing a textbook provision
system; and the Curriculum Development, Inspections and Teacher Education
Divisions--all within the NDOE--in identifying teachers' pre- and inservice
training needs for efficient use of new materials and in integrating divi-
sional services and sharing experiences.
2.42      Criticisms of the design must also be kept in perspective.  The
original design did well to match a series of identified problems to appro-
priate solutions. Many of the solutions involved the creation of completely
new units or new roles for established units; such initiatives are expected to
need modification with experience. In fact, not long after reaching its mid-
point, project management spearheaded a new design for a follow-on primary
education project. Had that project been approved by Government, many of the
original design oversights in Ed II would have been addressed.
Implementation
2.43      Some important issues that affected implementation have already b0pti
discussed under previous sections. This section will highlight constraints
that caused variations between what was planned and what actually occurr.d,
using examples from the subprojects themselves at both the national and
provincial levels.
2.44      Government Performance.  The collection and analysis of baseline
data to measure both the rate of progress and true impact of the project hy
the REU was very difficult early in the project because of the unreliability



- 24 -
of provincial data. Enrollment ratios and grade one enrollments in 1982 and
1983, produced results that could not have been correct. In 1985, a
computerized system of data collection was begun which continues today; yet
the initial figures still originate from community schools and are passed
through provincial personnel with very little direct supervision or support at
either level. Most recent figures indicate the project contributed to size-
able gains in enrollments but at the expense of decreased efficiency.
2.45      Shortage of support staff in the NDOE caused inefficient use of
professional expertise and a strain on other departmental staff resources.
The ERC Coordinator was expected to do her own correspondence as well as make
her own travel arrangements. In the CDC there was a shortage of typists;
typesetters were used as typists. The MSU was slow to establish a comparative
measure of student performance using the Grade Six National Exam due to the
lack of data entry staff. Packaging and distribution of exams were also
delayed. Only after this subproject became a separate NPEP initiative did
both staff and computer resources improve. It was eventually able to estab-
lish routines for comparing performance across years and producing inservice
materials on measurement for community schools. Exam performance increased
consistently over the life of the project.
2.46      Delays in staff recruitment resulted in poor sequencing of implemen-
tation activities. The RPAs arrived too late, leaving only enough time to
focus on the drafting of provincial plans. Plans were produced by all
provinces, but did not receive adequate attention by provincial leaders, par-
ticularly their financial implications.   The early departure of RPAs did not
allow, provincial planners to experience the "rolling" of a plan and greatly
decreased the chances of institutionalizing planning procedures. Other
examples were textbook writers arriving early compared to production staff;
late arrival of the MSU data analyst; and the broadcast officer arriving with-
out equipment to do his work.
2.47      A related issue was the question of when or even whether sub-
projects, their personnel and/or their inputs should become recurrent or new
development budget activities outside Ed II management. To the degree that
project activities were deemed crucial to the longer term goals of the NDOE,
activities were extended under either approach. Keeping such activities under
Ed II was not a viable option as it would have meant cost overruns or fewer
resources for other project activities. However, the vagaries of the annual
budget cycle did not guarantee such changes would be accepted by those
Government agencies that determined financial and manpower priorities across
sectors. Subprojects most affected included the MSU, library advisers, school
broadcasts, the University of PNG planning courses and fellowships, textbook
supply and inservice training, and new teachers under the PPEF.
2.48      One result of the above dilemma was a pressure on project pers..nnet
and their supervisors to give priority to project activities over on-going
activities. This did not promote harmony at middle and lower management
levels where finite project activities were seen as only one aspect of the
total on-going program. Textbook production is only one aspect of curriculum
devPlopment and the MSU's monitoring of standards must defer to its primat-y
task of managing three national exams annually; both are examples where com-



- 25 -
peting priorities Increased tensions between NDOE staff and ED II project
management.
2.49      Orientation of new Ed II staff and their professional briefing were
not well organized within the NDOZ. Textbook writers arrived and were given
minimal or conflicting guidelines for their tasks. The ERC Coordinator had to
define her own role with little advice. For all staff there was a lack of a
written orientation to the operation of the NDOE. In several subprojects
confusion over how and when to recruit Papua New Guinean associates was a
direct result of poor orientation of new staff. These oversights again
reflect the lack of detailed planning mentioned earlier.
2.50      Important questions arose during the life of the project as to how
an effective textbook development, production, distribution and resupply
policy could be implemented. These issues cannot be attributed just to
problems in project preparation or design because most Bank studies of text-
book projects in other countries were completed after the Ed II agreement was
signed. Yet the Bank could have done more than it did after implementation
began to help NDOE decision-makers understand the process and their role and
options within it. Consequently, the subproject seemed to progress by trial
and error rather than by a rational plan.
2.51      The establishment of a publishing capacity by an organization is a
complicated undertaking and the NDOE was slow to comprehend this fact. The
NDOE missed an opportunity early in the project when it took little cogni-
zance of the McDonald report which stressed organizational structures in
relation to publishing. Several years later Denning found publishing
practices had not been efficient in the CDD due to the lack of qualified and
experienced publishing staff and inadequate contractual relations with private
sector publishers.
2.52      A general lack of publishing experience within Government as a whole
also led to major constraints in explaining to the Tenders Boards (i) the
procedures for international competitive bidding as laid down in the Loan
Agreement in relation to national laws giving preference to local companies;
(ii) prequalification procedures to ensure a contractor's capability; and
(iii) the need to tender for a complete series of books in order to cater for
efficient resupply;
2.53      The two additional areas which have or undoubtedly will cause prob-
lems are distribution and resupply. Most materials appear to have reached
most schools, but only after substantial delays and not in the planned quan-
tities. The Superintendent of Materials within the NDOE faced major
constraints related to storage, inventory control, forward planning and
national versus provincial roles in the process. To fund replacements, the
NDOE must be guaranteed large amounts of money each year.  Alternatively,
parents, schools or provinces could become responsible for replacement costs.
As replacements did not figure significantly under Ed II, it was not a
problem; but the NDOE still lacks a firm policy nonetheless on this very
important financial issue.
2.54      At the provincial level, provincial needs upon which subprojects
were based were not adequately assessed. As a result the strategies in the



- 26 -
subprojects were unable to achieve the objectives set for them. For example,
provincial needs in planning and administration were much greater than
assessed prior to Ed II. This poor assessment led to a strategy that included
RPAs for two years, a Diploma in Educational Studies (Planning) and three-
month overseas courses, when RPA support for five years and a more comprehen-
sive training program might have been more appropriate.
2.55      In addition, strategies in subprojects did not always recognize the
lines of authority under decentralization. Under the present system, there
may be three levels of government--national, provincial, and local--whose
various demands the educational manager must satisfy. At times these demands
conflict, causing confusion and eventually leading to problems in implementa-
tion. For example, in using the PPEF, the provincial government may have told
its education office to include items such as teachers' salaries that were
ongoing expenditures for provincial governments while the NDOE or local auttho-
rities would have preferred to see more "quality" items chosen. In such
matters the province had the autonomy to decide and may have funded items
which were not in line with national policy.
2.56      Another aspect of this problem is the role politicians play in
implementing change. Because of its recent history and decentralized form of
government, politics in PNG can become a barrier to change. Projects such as
the siting of new schools may be based on rational grounds, but the fluid
nature of PNG politics (changing faces, coalitions and preferences) is such
that it is difficult to anticipate the role of politicians in planned
projects.  Politicians usually in the end have the final say on policy no
matter how rational the strategy originally chosen by the education planner.
2.57      Lessons.  Data collection at the provincial level still needs to be
improved. The NDOE's Management and Planning Support Unit when fully staffed
should have a direct impact on data collection, but the involvement of the
Inspectorate must also be explored. Coordination in the use of such data
within the NDOE, especially with the introduction of new computer systems.
also needs attention.
2.58      The present Public Service policy of less manpower but more effi-
ciency needs to be carefully examined using a proper needs assessment when
planning major projects. The NDOE might well be served by asking the
Department of Personnel Management to conduct a time study analysis of the
present distribution and use of support staff. Such studies would also help
define the NDOE's training needs under the new training policy and result in a
better allocation of resources.
2.59      During detailed planning of subprojects, a timeline of activities
needs to be established to place recruitment in its proper sequence. Many (if
the delays in Ed II stemmed from inefficiency in the Government's own rectuit-
ment efforts. A major improvement should be expected with the delegation of
more authority to departmental heads to control overseas recruitment. Such
planning with timelines would also make it clear which activities were solplv
developmental in nature and not expected to become recurrent. One of the most
significant contributions of RMS will be the inclusion of all NDOE activities
under the umbrellas of programs which recognize the contributions of all



- 27 -
efforts to meet identified needs. Tensions between project and recurrent
activities should be reduced.
2.60      If middle level management had been involved much earlier in defin-
ing operational objectives and strategies, a better understanding of indivi-
dual project roles would have resulted. This is an important message for how
the NDOE goes about the development of its programs and projects under the
RMS. Further, key individuals need to be designated to brief thoroughly new
officers and colleagues on expected duties atnd operational plans. The NDOE
should assign an individual to develop an NDOE operations handbook. The SDU
has produced such material for its associate training scheme; this approach
needs to be extended to many other areas of departmental work.
2.61      According to Denning, CDD should (i) amend its organizational struc-
ture, (ii) prc.ide trained and professional publishing staff, (iii) redefine
responsibilities so that publishing and publications development are conducted
by competent staff, and (iv) institute formal procedures for publications.
Recruitment of a publishing manager is essential. The functions of curriculum
development and publishing necessarily overlap, but not to the extent that
success in curriculum development is measured by the number of publications.
The consequence of this present overlap is that the NDOE has the capacity to
produce textbooks through many different means, but not the foresight to eval-
uate the use of those materials in the schools. By the end of Ed II, many of
the original tender problems had been resolved by project management and cur-
riculum personnel. As yet only a few individuals have this expertise which
will be lost if they depart; this further supports the need for establishing
permanent publishing positions.
2.62      Denning stressed that procedures were needed to assess adaptation
and to adopt copyright laws to prevent unauthorized reprinting in other coun-
tries. Such laws also have important implications for resupply. Guidelines
for adaptation have been prepared but very little has been done to support
copyright laws.
2.63      Replacement has two aspects -- identifying a publisher and funds for
reprints. Books which were not adapted by the CDD need to have their own
contractual agreements reviewed for performance and limitations over time.
The NDOE has adopted copublishing as the most desired approach so that
reprints and marketing rights are covered in the original agreement. All such
agreements, however, still require expertise in the CDD. Again the NDOE has
made progress in this area as it has gained experience from working with the
publishing industry.
2.64      CDD has adopted some policies to limit production costs such as
using at most two colors, no publishing of workbooks, and keeping to standard
sizes. However, no policy has yet been adopted by Government on the question
of financing the large recurrent costs of textbooks. Such a replacement
policy is needed urgently; otherwise blackmarketing could become a prllmpn anl
booksellers will approach provinces and schools to buy replacements which the
NDOE may indeed resupply free of charge.
2.65      Warehousing and distribution needs to be separated from the rest of
the materials section and improved. Church agencies could be asked to take



- 28 -
more responsibility for distributing materials to their schools. Distribution
plans are needed for each community school in each province. TA is needed in
most provinces to plan, cost and implement a custom-made distribution system.
A grand forum should be organized to sensitize both national and provincial
managers to the problems and possible solutions.
2.66      The NDOE should conduct an adequate needs assessment of all major
areas of concern prior to the development of future projects. In order to
plan proper strategies to overcome perceived needs, the gap between where
education is and where it wishes to be must be carefully assessed. The size
of this gap determined strategies and the length of time required to close the
gap. A needs assessment involves a thorough and systematic analysis of the
situation by skilled people. The RMS must realize that it requires much more
than a consultation among key people within the education system.
2.67      The design of future projects involving sectoral programs should
reflect the sharing of responsibilities under decentralization and the con-
flicting demands on and various capabilities of provincial managers. Consul-
tation among levels must be taken seriously rather than as a formality. The
NDOE cannot impose projects on the provinces, but if agreed upon national
goals related to quantity and quality are to be achieved; provinces cannot
have complete freedom of choice. Funding could be more effectively used to
direct choices, and detailed guidelines for the development of particular
options could be produced and disseminated to help provinces plan and imple-
ment certain activities considered important by NDOE.
2.68      Bank Performance.  One of the strongest assets of the Ed II project
was the quality of professional advice the Bank provided during implementation
through regular project advisory missions. Not only did they serve a need for
accountability, they stimulated the NDOE to analyze issues, sort out options
and set priorities. These visits were in a sense staff development exercises
that provided fresh insights and new perspectives.
2.69          The nature, length and composition of missions were generally
well organized under Ed II, yet some areas could have been improved upon.
Perhaps the most consequential decision made by the NDOE with the advice of
the Bank was to plan and appraise a follow-on primary education project with
nearly two years remaining under Ed II. As mentioned above, no one could have
foreseen that such a project would not eventuate; yet it did not. The more
important question to raise is whether more could have been done to improve
the ongoing efforts of Ed II when the follow-on project was obviously not
going to be approved by the new Government. The provision of special assis-
tance to study the costs and financing of education as well as the development
of a computer model for analyzing different investment scenarios were well-
intentioned but unfortunately not fully used. They both addressed important
concerns of the Government and the Bank at the time.
2.70      However, a review of implementation problems would suggest that thw
textbook subproject could have benefited from more expertise earlier in the
project. There is a positive side to maintaining the same Bank personnel (ovlt
an extended project period, yet no one person can be a universal expert.
Could additional full-time publishing and legal expertise in copublishing
agreements have been arranged? Could short-term visits have been arranged for



- 29 -
key NDOE decision-makers to travel to other countries where similar projects
were underway? Could fellowship funds have been diverted to training in ware-
housing and distribution systems?
2.71      Another less obvious consequence of preparing a follow-on project
was the negative attitudes towards planning that it left in its wake. Many
staff-hours of detailed planning were devoted to project preparation and
design by both NDOE and Bank staff. After such fruitless efforts, more recent
and less demanding project planning activities have not met a warm response
within the NDOE.
2.72      Lessons.  Review missions should not become too routine.  Mission
representatives should not meet only with senior NDOE officials or officers at
the national levels. The respect Bank representatives are accorded in PNG is
a useful tool for encouraging provincial mantagers and obtaining first hand
glimpses of their situations.
2.73      Generally, the Bank maintained a very effective relationship
throughout the project period with the NDOE and other education agencies. One
assumes such relationships also existed with the other line departments.
Under the RMS, relationships with donor agencies such as the Bank will be
strengthened with a view to having one sector managed by one agency and with
greater attention paid to obtained grants rather than loans. Concerns were
raised by the NDF that in the past too many donors actually hindered implemen-
tation within a sector or department as each donor left behind its own aide-
memoire. Subsequent review missions were finding their last aide-memoire had
still not led to action. The NDOE has not as yet experienced this problem nor
has it had a lead agency designated for the sector.
Sunmary Statement
2.74      The Ed II project marked a milestone for the Ministry of Education
as it was able to fund through one planning structure a range of strategies to
meet needs for expanding enrollment, improving quality and increasing the
effective management of educational resources. From the outset the NDOE made
sure that it had the full backing of the Government for its priorities and
approaches. Preparation proceeded smoothly. However at the design and
appraisal stage, the NDOE did not prepare nor did the Bank request detailed
implementation plans for individual subprojects. The NDOE evidently preferred
to put more energy into recruiting TA of a high caliber and permitting them
the flexibility to apply their expertise as they saw fit. The design under-
estimated the capacity of the system to effectively manage what was a complex
project by PNG standards.
2.75      During implementation this led to various constraints as several
planned strategies and their TA were insufficient to meet needs, especially
for subprojects related to the development of teaching and learning materials
and the improvement of planning and management skills at the provincial level.
Most of these constraints were recognized early. Some were effectively over-
come while most were readdressed in the design of the proposed follow-on
project. However, with a change of Government in 1985, national priorities
were altered and the follow-on project was never approved, although appraisal
was completed. Bank support and its relationship with Government were con-



- 30 -
structive throughout project implementation--although more attention to
ongoing project needs, especially with textbooks, may have been possible. The
project was completed in 1988 after a short extension to draw down the
original Loan.
2.76      The experience of Ed II was a major boost to the system providing
the opportunity to finance improvements most visible in the construction and
maintenance of buildings on the POMITC campus and the provision of hundreds of
thousands of textbooks to the nation's comnunity schools. Less visible but
perhaps just as important was the TA; new people with new ideas and fresh
perspectives. This applies not only to project personnel but also the Bank's
review missions. One would hope that the Bank's past contributions to and
present understanding of PNC-'s educational development are recognized by the
Government as it determines a lead donor agency for the sector.
2.77      It is imperative that the PNG education system develop a mechanism
that fosters joint decision-making, consensus of direction and rational
funding. The RMS of public administration may offer such a mechanism. As the
NDOE develoos detailed programs and projects through the RMS, it can build
upon the Ed II experience or it can fail to recognize its lessons. To the
degree this report contributes constructively to recognizing those lessons, it
has succeeded in its purpose.



PART III
PROnCE PROnI AT TOE Tn   F CoNETIoE
8.1 Related Bank Credits/Loans
Year of
Loan/Credit Title            Purpose               Approval        Statu                               Coemnte
Credit 661-PUS     Provision for (a) urgently        1978       Clo ed on     A PCR dated June 80, 1988, found the project targets for
needed traintnng  acilities                 March 81,    enrol Ie nta, outputs and employment to be anbit ious which
for a variety of *iddle-                     1982          re ulted In overall shortfalls of from 6O%-709. The
lev   skill r euirent                                      reason  for this were an lnadequste supply of qualif;ed
(agricultural, mdical                                     c ndidates and the Inability of the education system to
teaching end  technica l, and                              repond to chnging manpower demand. The project was
(b) t      chnical asistance for                             mu    l to some extent In replacing expatriate teachers
letitutions and for studies                               wlth loal staff at the lower socondary level and in con-
considered ential for the                                  tributing to the dsvelopwnt of planning and managemnt
future development of the                                  capabilitie.  The main leson leaned was that national
education and training sec-                                consrint, particularly those growing out of macroecono-
tor.                                                       mic policies  uch as rWduced public uector growth and
employmnt  could severely impede the achievement of
proj et objectivee.
Leon 2896-P        Assistance to secondary adu-      1984       Due to        trplementation is proceeding well, particularly the provi-
catlon through (a) tmpl                     close Dec    sion of grant-in-aid to provincial high schoole for
tation of str ned  sub-                     31, 1990       building meintennce, hit;ilg of antillary stff and pur-
sector pollee  and evalus-                                chase of library books, and the supply ^%f national
tlon practices, (b) provid-                                textbooks.
Ing appropriate Instruc-
tional materials and upgrW-
Ing of the ntional teaching
force and (a) expansion of
school place and upgtrding
of existing facilities.
Note: Further assistance to priesry  datiton was planned through the proposed Socond Primary Education Project. This project was
appraised but did not materialize beaus of a change In Government pollcy and resour   llocation priorities rgarding educa-
tion.



- 32 -
3.2 Project Timetable
Project Stage     Date Planned               Date Actual
Reconnaissance I  --                         March 1977
Subsector study   February/March 1979        February 11 - March 10, 1979
Reconnaissance It July 1979                  July 2 - 12, 1979
Preparation       October 1979               October 7 - November 4, 1979
Preappraisal I    November/December 1979   November 21 - December 14, 1979
Preappraisal II   _-                         April 18 - 22, 1980
Appraisal          June 1980                 July 25 - August 8, 1980
Negotiations       November 1980             November 6 - 7, 1980
Board approval    January 1981               December 23, 1980
Signature          --                        May 11, 1981
Effectiveness     August 11, 1981            August 28, 1981
Completion         June 30, 1987             June 30, 1988
Closing            December 31, 1987         December 31, 1988
Comments
1. In April 1978, the Government requested deferment of the visit of a UNESCO
subsector review mission due to heavy commitments, which explains the two
year lapse following reconnaissance.
2. Project components at project preparation included: (a) curriculum, text-
books and instructional materials and school libraries; (b) teacher
training; (c) ERCs; and (d) educational planning and administration, with
a minor component on non-formal education. At the time of preappraisal,
the school library and ERC components were excluded because of uncertain-
ties about their administration.   A major innovation was introduced by
mixing project and sector lending. The project component was to address
issues related to educational quality within the control of the NDOE while
the sector component was to develop sectoral policies on expansion and
quality improvement of community (primary) education at the provincial
level. These would be pursued by financing a time-slice of the
Government's sectoral program in community education based on set
criteria. Another significant innovation in the project design was the
use it made of academic achievement data (test scores on national examina-
tions) to demonstrate over time the decline in the quality of learning and
to set down as a project objective the raising of academic achievement to
a specific level.
3. At appraisal, the size of the proposed lending increased from US$12 mil-
lion to US$18 million. The dimensions of some of the components and
project management arrangements underwent changes, namely: the increase
of specialist services from 68 to 86 staff-years for the evaluation and
management staff; the decrease in fellowships from 196 to 165 staff-years
because of a shortage of candidates; the NDOE (and not the NDF) as the
agency responsible for project management; for large-scale printing of



- 33 -
textbooks to be done outside NDOE to encourage the development of the
Government's existing printing plant; the staff housing omitted from
POMITC in accordance with existing Government policy; the delay by one
year (to January 1983) in establishing the PPEF to allow the completion of
provincial plans; the extension of the duration of the PPEF to three years
(1983-85) instead of two to permit better evaluation; the increase in the
size of the Bank's financing of the PPEF from US$5 million to US$8 mil-
Lion. In the final design of the Project, the school library and ERC
components had re-emerged. It is likely that it was during appraisal,
when the dimensions of TA underwent changes, that the decision to re-
include these items was made. At the decision meeting, it was recommended
that the financing of provincial sector projects under the PPEF be con-
sidered a test case for future projects in other sectors in PNG.
4. At the yellow cover SAR stage, a change in the definition of project
scope, i.e., the inclusion in project costs of the estimated cost of
school construction of US$5.8 million which was expected to be financed by
the local communities, increased total project costs from US$32 million to
US$38 million while the Bank-funded share of the total cost declined from
562 to 478.
5.  During loan negotiations, the Government agreed to a waiver of its policy
of granting a 10? preference to domestic construction contractors as
applied to the POMITC/CDC civil works contracts, but with Government's
caveat that this exception should not be taken as a precedent for automa-
tic application to future lending operations. The lapse of five months
from negotiations to signing was due to both delayed approval of the
Project by PNG's Parliament which rose from session seven days before the
date of transmittal of the negotiated documents, and to a factual error in
its final resolution (which showed SDR 9.1 million instead of SDR 9.4
million).
6. There were three amendments to the Loan/Development Credit Agreements.
The first, in January 1984, agreed to the use of up to $300,000 from cate-
gory 4 (technical assistance and training) to finance the services of an
advisor in public administration for up to three years and short-term
consultants as appropriate, and to the consequent amendment of Part G
(Technical Assistance) of Schedule 2. This amendment is noteworthy in
that the Government also requested that the advisor be hired as an
employee of the Bank and not of the Government for reasons of scheduling
(delays normally associated with PNG's recruitment procedures), prestige
(being a Bank staff member was considered crucial to the advisor's suc-
cess) and independence (not having to be attached to any one Department).
Agreeing to this proposal meant a deviation from standard Bank policy, but
nevertheless the Government's request was accommodated as it was seen to
be of mutual interest to both institutions. The other two amendments,
dated September 1984 and April 1987, reallocated Schedule 1 of the Credit
and the Loan, respectively.
7. The actual date of final disbursement is technically the official Closing
Date. In this case, however, the final disbursement was made four months
before the official Closing Date. This was at the request of the
Government so that as this was a time-slice operation, the Closing Date
for the project would coincide with the end of PNG's fiscal year.



- 34 -
3.3 Credit/Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(SDR and US$ million)
FY        1982   1983    1984    1985    1986    1987   l988  1989
Appraisal
estimate (US$)  0.2    1.8      6.2    10.6      15.0    17.0   18.0  18.0
Actuals a/
SDR              -      0.8     6.5      9.4      9.4     9.4    9.4   9.4 a/
US$               -      -      0.0      0.2      3.4      4.5    5.5   6.0
Actual as X
of estimate b/   0       55     134      115      103       97     97   100
Date of Final Disbursements  August 24, 1988.
a/ The US$ equivalent of SDR 9.4 million which was actually disbursed was
only US$9.7 million due to changes over the life of the Project in the
$DRIdollar exchange rates. Thus although the Loan/Credit proceeds were
fully disbursed, the total amount disbursed in US$ equivs ent was a total
of only US$15.7 million compared with the US$18.0 million expected at
appraisal.
b/ SDR amounts were changed to US$ at the rate of exchange at appraisal for
the purposes of this comparison only.



S.4 Pro;eet Imlon tat,n
ind;cabor                  Appraleal                               Actual                                                                           Cements
To (a) strengthen       LOl training in a 15-montF         Fcl lowehips ued were only b8t of a1 locations    Thr high wstge, rote in aem DEf  (fo g  e.   tsc-e"r         o e-ee-  e  52% and
local plannng and      progam for S2 *enior adani-         (35.8 vs. 52.5 staff-years); the IPA. wera         therefore the ceot ineffectivenes of the tnr    -c non  .ae.'   ett,.tutad to the
administrative          trat,ve end planning ataff,        contracted for 11.9 ateff-years, 3.9 taf-          following: the limited potential ef the S-As            f-e eees - te- tg coupled w,th the
caasity by finan-       both national and provincial;      yearn in *ecena of the a etaff-yora provided       to dierse job backgrounds of atudents fot onC t.: -, -a,  ntoke  zhe d-fficulty on
in. local and over-    study tour. oveae" of £0            while the Diploma in Educational Studies           the part of the student in combining job& and *tueo ps t.culartl during the non-
ea  in--ervice          weeks duration for 2D prowin-      (Planning) (DEP) Coord;intore (speciat leo-        residential component of the courme  end the wool 1 '. between the tra.ning to btoma
training program        cis$ superintendente nod 10        turere) used up their allocated 4 etaff-youru.   a planner and being appointed a planner. The dea.gr and  anagement of the course was
for educational         hE staff. copleaonted by 6-8   The cpantructton advisor stayed for 20 of his          also deficient in tao  aoys  firet, a shorter gener    ntoductoy plnnng coure
adi;nietretore  ond     seek. of predoeperture and pot-    ontracted 24 month.                                Intended for both provincial   peuprintndenet and SPA.. as we or.9nally conceived by
plntner; and (b)          udy seamern ; 12 month-long      A course leading to Wte VW  we developed to    the planning corIultant., ar. not iopleantoeand *sant an opportun ty loot for the
help propao provi-    overseee  f*etomships for S .N0DE    create a pool of 30 trained planners in 4 in-      provincial  uperintendents to aceuire the be,-c cone.ota of ducationfl planning and
n;*l education          otuff and provineiat superin-      tskee from 1962-96 but only i2 1/ out of 67        thus be more supportive of the SPAi; *econd, wee the lack of continuity in the mnage-
plan.                   tendents in 19824-4  4 eduea-      education officers who enrol led ouceeful ly       *et of the course  with a two-tim  change of curee coord nato  ove the 4-yoer life
tioa l planners for 2 yeaPn        completed the cours. Study tours in pltaning    of the prqgr-, which furthe  weakened! field eumport to students and weds for poor
each end one-moth  visit. by       eventuated for 6 officers who  pent S month        record-keep i ng.
hort-ters p lnnre Ipn 190-6t2;    at tho HNtional Int totute    Education l          The V$WT=H course am  favorably peeeaed by the partic pants (wetly PD0E Asitnt
2 staff-yers for a lto-cst         Planning and Adeianitretion (NISPA) in  ew         Secretaries, prviously called Provincial Superintendents) on the  daptabil Ity  tf ito
_oaructsen spscialietl and 4       Delhi in 1962 and for 29 officero (half frm        teachntg aproach to P1N  problem, it. performece  output) or;entation.  ts high
esff-yeare of special lec_-        P0E and half freo  1t60) who ment for a            teachigo standard., and the hospiteble on-roteovt   AIso the fact than it Wao full-
turers for local trainingtt.      Rtegonel Canter for Innoation and Technology        tio, ahort nd overa" eent full concentraticr and suet ind  aot at;on   The mnjor
(DIN6ITE) training eour e in tbni;s froa          I mitation "am the lack of forma fol Ilow-up of the participante on thei r return to P1.
19634-. Only 6 of those had been enrolled in   ahich sin;isied the possibilit;es for coneolidation. appicatr.on and wider dieena-    I
the  ESP of wboa only 2 cop Plted the diplo       tion of ski JIs learnaed duriag the course   The participant. were almot unanio"u  in
coure. The originat plan hed considered the       rocemanding the continuation of the cours  under r*current funding especial ly for        urn
oetudy tours a mwn to broaden the planning        SPA. ond nem Assiotnt Secretaries. The New Dtlhi coure, however. w   found irrele-
outlook of the"e who took the DECP.               vent to the officers, profaeiol nea  and cultural d,ese, larit,es were diffioult
A 2-y"r cerre leading to an in-sorvice            to accommodat   n  d. ring a short pereod
8bhelor of Education CtE4) (Planning) wo          The lock of popularity of the    d (Plann ng) course has been traced to the fact that
developed where 5 officers  were esonwored, of    plamnnine ; not yet looked upon in PN6 a. a profee-onal nk II worthy of acade-ic
ahm only 2 finishe. Only S  of trinees            study. It ia unreatitie   to *apect. in a siliu Where planning is a*re identified
were  ooen.                                       with date ,ad Petaitical rollection than a. the analytical f(elf that it is, that
Four hPA   ern recruited in 1981 on 2-yer         studento w; Il go for a high leel of training much am a Bachelor of Education d"ere.
contcts. on. per region (of 4-S provines          A more eoytotic and wide, build up of the idea that where the node brany and
ea ch) wIth one RA cetefdad for another 2         reeoures oaro ocarce, ptaninge is an imperative, is needed at the rarsous levls of
years; 2 plannina   swocistee were  powiaed       educationl adinisation in PM.  Planning moutd become a systema,ide concarn end
between 1996 and 19 ; 2 NPA& did not stay        more oupport would be gveneratod for the Profeesion l plannrs' work
with the job through their cntract. and mo        The delay In recruitmnt of the RPA. did not reult in an sltert,on of their con-
their work am  rea Ilocated to the 2 WAs, Ieft    tract perlod. ad therefore their wwork oncentrated on the preparation of provincial
and to the DES coordinator. Tho advisr oan        educational plos, to the seclusion of euch other vital dutian as f sld work
low-coat ocheol coeetructien, b_oed ath the       aupervia on of  MP student. and aesisitnce in the rol ingt foreard end exacution of
lM    at tHunt atgen Prepared a booklet of        the plapne. twover, Instead of acting en mdv isor to the SPA. -n th- deweloa t of
deaogne end gtln for various types o              th  pis", they had to writl. the pimae t_mlve  (otherW.e the prov;nces uaked
clturooms and teeche  housiag but renoigd 4       losiga their PW  *alocation.). The pimn  were oufficently Prepared and the fund
sonth. before his contract ended me ho ooi -      reI recent met but the strategy of   d;r ect still transfer from the RPAe to te  SPA
doead the eubProject ao not viable given th-e    eo  lot both to a tight project timetable  nd to the a*i_tch between so few RP. ed
constraints om traneport. construction euper-    tht 20 province* need;ne pmno and 20 SPAe to train
vision and the preprat;on of preftabicated
Porte..
The oerce of data on the planning  ubproject em the R2ta eport of bhy 1969 written by L.  _oma. Th  li;t of fell_ws supplied to the  taotion by the Project  Mager  hM scow discrepanc;is
with the NM1 report, *e.., a lower nu ete  (63) enrollod in the O P and a ll but 4 having received diploma,  dp ao higher  -eIer (11) of tha. sponsored having rteeivd  is 5I9S  degree.



Indicater                   Appraisal                                 Actua                                                                               Cmente
2.   To improve priry         Production and distrIbution of       Specialist sovice. escoded  aetiawbt  by 291       The testboek prodwction proc.. m_t with delays cs,e: r. d              -es  n cood.n t-
te chin. _t. er*o        466t500 grad 4-6 textbooks in        (86.1 ve. 2d steff-yeares) while folleushipe        ing the role, of the curriculu  offic m.r. the t*e,oov  - t-s  vo. e. to'.  lnd the
by eupporting the        2r titleo with store cab;-           ere, I5   (15.1 vC. 9.75 dtbff-yearo) of            production deelgere.  Noticeably *bsent frroe th. *b cA     sor 4.r this project co_
dal_opmnt. test-         net; three nnf-degree                or;ignal estimtes.  About 29 officer  wer"           oot was, *    publishing  wmsr  to dra  up a p; ., ov,s  on. synchronie the
eg and product;on        felloships of t ontht  each lo   trained, broken downs followso  28 in our-              rolee gnd contributien  free each of the SP.c,S -at.  at a' I stapge of tOh  book
ot approprit             curricwa_ develpent: 8               riculu  and toatboekse   4 in evalution; ond 2      production proee_.  This oltution, coupled withe elow  recruitmnt of contract
teaching mate iale.      at-enths of ovoreme in-              in exeiaatione.  There we only one woman in         (oxpatriast) officers and the general shortage of asoc.stees *nd support staff.
The teatbo_k pro-        plant training for printehop         this group.                                         reowlted in a year'o delay in isple_ntrtion.  lo the tend.' for the eths 4 titlee,
erami wold develop       ceemosr4. 48 fl lowahip stff-    A total of 4t book title. (pupil taest,                 an isee  cropped up when the CentraI Tenders 8oerd  naistd on the CGoe'snt Printing
an  netItutional         senth  iA educational t rcho-        teacher's guides, nte., re dro) In 1,4t5.500)    Aency undertaking the printing *n apitO of  to lea' of *.pertie. and caoacity for the
Capecity for a ceo-      logly; 16 etaff-ysers of spocla-    copies  nd 5,t0 kite were produced; 12.000           job; the Job av eventually a*arded to thoe beet coeply.n  bidd-r in the original
tinous owpply of         list rervice. in the cor  cv-         8e  10 arithmstic blocks were aleo owppli;d        tender.
textbooks relevant       riculue subject. and book pub-      to schools.                                          While field-trislling romind an intogr l Pert of the sneusc-pt dewvelopant procom.
to PiX.  The             lIshinge  4 staff-years of                                                               doeayo In overll bc  production as w-I a s a ehortege of both mapower  nd fonds ied
e*;en ation, tet         specialist ervicee in oduct-                                                             to Iee. trialling than originally foreen, with only a few unita rather than the
and raere_nt             Idenl technoleoy and broadcaet-                                                          wholo book undargoing field trials and only in schools  hich were within a re_.omeble
oepoent wold             len  nd 8 *taff-yeare of                                                                 dietance from Port tlresby.  Tri;lo also took plae at the tie. of year whn  the units
prwvo  r"k exami-      spciall t 0er.ims and *                                                                 were ready for trial int ed of beng synchronized with tho teeching teaotble.  bob
nation program.          stff-years of fellowshipe for                                                            distribution has been pretlemtic. No syateeot;c dcion.tot.on -, ts to ohm hw
secipt in dlagnoio       ow    and measurement.                                                                   ech book title which went out of the CODs Ineterals Unt to the pro vices, fared.
of learnint and                                                                                                   bobs were packaged end labeled individually by school snd a mn  tor-ng reow;pt fore
teaching probl_ee                                                                                                 included for  chools to cmplet  end rturn directly to the National Ibterisal
and prduce  wen-                                                                                                  Officer.  Soa  returned tho fore but cny did not   Those who did not my hve ben
intfut re" Its for                                                                                                schols who J  t did not bother or they _my elI hwve bee  the ones who nevor received  t4
otudont pltcemnt,                                                                                                 the books nd co hove no fore to rturn; the latte' possib lIty is not on unlk;ely  eS C
since  choola do not get notified prior to the *speoeld arival of the books nd Whave 
no baeoi therofore for follow-up with their Proincial sibteriala and Supply Officers
(RIMe). The effici;ncy of diotribution vsaise widely from  pro-nc  to province,
deponding on whether there is a trined P16O who knows what his brief is       about *nd
whether fouds Sr* avaIlIble for the distr;bution wor Tk rnover of PISOs hoe been
Very high as only S of thoe. who are traned 2 or 3 yesr- back for the poet have
atyrd. and even thee era  only *aiting to be appointed el r  or to so back to
their toeching note.   The project _d* no provision for ths criti.cal  teg_  of the
bkoo  devoleopnt cycle, sither in tare. of orgenizat.onal ,nfroatructure. provinc;l
warehousing, staffing or fending.  I other words, there w   no d etibition O In.
The Supply Division of the NS wee, in the SR  preposed to be in charge of distri-
buting prspsckwed beebe to the provincse where it was fu-ther* oreeumed that emiteblo
atoraee deeot *;iated. ti    weeoleo to be jointly responsible with the PFM  tor
distributing borJe to echoola and training provincil supply offic er; this did not
materialism.  A recent tDOEt srvey rveols that only 31t of schools receive their book
allocations within a year of dispatch froe Port "ore.by    pdat-ng of  nrol lnt and
ottandonc stetistics has not  ept pace aith the need for these date at the ti_e of
book tndore, of pockaging books by school, and by gade, and of the  esusnce of
buffs'. atocks. The present distribution systes needa fi.' I reviewnd retionelization.
The instructional value of the books produced has teer si.tod 6) the lsch, of en In-
ser,ic* trainine plan in the use of the  ptoeiale direted towards the map of
teachers perticularly as soes books (mths) *ar structured avcc-dr- to the syl laob
while others (hoelth, commnity life. supplementory rd-r-) f-t- as *eaourc
materials hich have to be fitted into the teaching progoam  co! l.0 ;o  by the
syllabus. Hboing recognized thi-  a Curricuilu  Ip.."nttiton Cff,c  w.** created
under the CMD, and charged with tho production of  n-Servie tea-ng packagee.
Overall * about 55l of priory teahears hay*  received some tra-. n  rn the use of the
new _terials. apparently on an ad-hoc bwsie, *wth durst*ons rang"r froe leo  than a
day to sore then S days.



Indirator                  ApprDisal                               Actual                                                                           Cote-ta
S.  To ae_;ot in             72 staff-manthe oPf fP loretht Dpe   I  (9.1 ve. 6.5 atef-yetra) Were usd for         Of the 7 trained I brarians, only 2 re.-' - to. s.at- .       e cT,, -.  a ft aleost
atatnd;ne tbh  use      for librarians ond 80 stcff-       oversees fl loehip.e by 9 library mssocetes        imt_dhtoly on their return fIro  f 1Oshcps f- ;i-  .t r-ts-'C  fot- .  er, rectoate
oPf lerning             montho fPr OM onere; 4              (2 of sho  failed the coure) and 36 education    of the lDOE. aupported Dy the Bank, to  -t IC these ivases  rer refued4 by lDF'  In
_tends ;ad ttPff-yeere of specialist sor-                  off icer trained in  RC wsork; an ERC adviser      liou of long-term training for a few ERC wmrse.' rii. NDOE octed fo, short-trns
Impoe  tort  rchng      ices in de_ itart.                osrvod a threeo-year contrct, a yeor noe than    training in  the fora of in-country wonkahopa. attech-nts to the Ratatl 1RC ad atten-
matted  to      Isoole                                     the allocation, while tho library speciallst       darnce at overseas conferencee, for a lage.- nont' i. o1f.-..
in the prorincee.                                          did a teo-yeer tera.                              The school Itbrary specialist conducted ad.ixod- -a,ts to scbool and *n-eserice
training workehops, but on his departure at1 corj-t? echool I ibr,ay tra-ning cesed.
4.  Follo ing eapneion       Annual i-rvice coreet fPr          The educational upgrading ceurse for toachero      The teacher upgroding program fPiled to attract cometuty school teachere due to a
of  4TC fPc; i-         eduational uperading of lo         had a toutl enrol leant oPf Yil; the course for    cotbinetion of factors: th  see ing of th- group of indorqual Pods; the conetrainte
tiset  (Indiocator S    commnity schli teechera sith       the profoesional training of teachers with 9       on woemn doing fPul-tim  residential tnain,ng fo, a long period  mawy from tthtir Pmi-
below), to train        les  then 9 yeairs of schooling;    or moe years of schooling enrolled 948; and       l;s; low acaesdic ability; and lack of self-eenf,dence n -*etunnng to college for
Jtaching  "ff in        profesion i training Por 178       the cours  for heedwastere  nrolled 79!.           acdoi c sork. The  OE terminated the program s it sap more cost-effective to
the sa  of media,       teachets sith 9 or sore yeras      These figures represont 291, 471 and 40d. roe-    concentrate on leadership training of thoos  school ateff (vuch a. senior teachers and
link teaebor train-    aP schooing; training of 130        pectively, of targt populations. Others           headteachers) eko soid hove  more influence in the cosen.ty at large and w,tt the
ing wits thetbae        serving hudimster; and 240         trained using PUMC facilities in 1987 and         schools' ;brds of ftneges-nt and who could Iced in the trainine of teachers en =mes;
devlopment and          parti cipenta in spchIl short     196B sere 2U prospective inspoetors. 256 heed-    tbh course for hMdleim e tesees retained and n_ counes eons ,ntrodue d for inrsec-
operate expanded       cemrs  in imspection training.    teechors. and 2S7 senior teachers. Workshops    tore.
in-senrvice trining     curriculea sowkshop a   educe-      ere also conducted from 1981-6  for 60-100
c<ous.                  t*ional planning,                  district-levtl inslectore, 20 curriculus  advi-
sore and 20 senior inspectors; else for
lNtional In-Serv;ce Traioning Weak
Coordinators. Mie,  cuirculumteatbook                                                                                                      n
trainers *nd       r psronnl.
S.  To retrd the             75.5 2/ sbfta-years of training    A total of  6.8 taftf-years of P*i loethipt        AvalsOnt of ft loIshipa see slow in the beginning pertly because of i_ause on role
growth of recurrnt    PIf *1oshipe; a staf-yearse  of      ears utilizd chile the eaports' term sent a       definitions (i.*.. beteen the Sonioe Staff D velopent Officer (SDO) and the Sltl
education costs by      scialist service.                  helPf staff-er moret tihan allocated.              steff) and the initial problem of getting the Teaching Sencice (ceisebionis approval
Inressitng tVW pro-                                        A three-pronged Pel leahip program as deve-       for recruiting oas-teachers Into the Teacher Education Diision   Only B5t of fellow-
portion of ;ndig;-                                         Ioep"   th  first prong took in 44 fresh           ships   d been vetd by 1914 (vs, 51% plannred by thet year). but *ventuialty they reefd-
Wer teechers in                                            recruita appointed as aeatse at a teacher         ed and in Pact exceeded plannd targata by 171. The attrition rate of 18 ass mlnly
PHD'* primary                                              cotllge to do either a certificate. diplect or   due to th  Inabilitty of the fl lows to cpe with university studies
teacher teain.lg                                           degre  coure at an average of 1.12 years each    The efforto of the P1 att specialist SSDD (1961-ge>. ve- concentrated on estabis hintg
cot Icole .                                                In a coa  iod hn-country end  overs"e   pregram;    contacts with  ntiWttions. ce_loting a need. analysis and arsparing fPe lows for th
secod sen avera   O-snts everase attacb-    eowre  whi l thos  of the second _650  (1918-17) more on developing the *d4lnietnrtlve
_st in eliich 24 serviro lecturers partici-       protedurs ntec"eery for ash  implementation and on better progrne  mnitoring.
pated; wd third was an average 1.5 years  ?
*cadoic study ,whic  upgraded the 4 ui Ifie-
ties" of another 24 serving leceuers. 191 of
slt trainees were semn.
This figure wa  taon frm Attacoent 3 of the vinute of   giations; s's Pigur ee W"  m3 an-years but hed no de%$ I-.



zodico                      Aepreiet                                  Acu                                                                                 Cent
To mistte                S_t pojoect  to b. SUvpreted         gubsiesien of prowlincil Pvat  for 19 cut of        TheF P . -greecame under a hedi eg    th- Como' .,s Schooa S.c%ors  Prtoor
prowie  in               wId be the- aee?d to                S  prewinm         m_ aw  ithin the  steded          which  by  nd large ltesmt teecher sieriss. the  ua  t       ceor  Proge  coane;oitng of
lepewing maltita         enrellsti e*aenelon, cope-          deudlia. of Jetsry 198 but tho smuel                 solerige for edditioat lnmp.ctoret  in-sor,ice tr rni.n fo- Appo;ntnts to f icert/
of med ncom  to          cielly of girle, VW quality          roilin d of the  vlee wee de.ity with S provite-    btt rimie   ficer*/_erd  of StuditetCurricuclu  Develoment Commttee, trerl  etee
primry cdumtice          imrowcmet; eligibily  rite-   ca  with;_ e polled tell  altgl n*_tfer mWd the            for Inp*ctors md ecquicitio  Of eur-rliWs Materials. and the Ntioenal Function
th_ -01 *a aem of        nes lcluded cODIctiom of *           ree  of tham with   rolled plea in either           Superb Progm  which _o.eidisad the Oin;sgeere  Confernce. curriculum reeerch.
coal project             provincial S-eer plee.               1964. 1988 or 1916 (but eot In a II these           PSIY. the teetbhe  colegs  nd wspport steff in the Inoptetorste Dirision. The
wnde the j9g.            project aroosu  fer fundling          eers). 15n then  only S of th_  reatl ed           Fei  reo        do ro  catrry * cetifiention of Projecte by progrm.   eetue sub-
_mis be coesite with vlee           Pima aft  ubtenittnd  n  eporewed by the             groject egrovel end budget epproval constituted a singlo Procees, project desgnw bed
Prioritiest .  ellocetions e_n      Provincial _icatioen  Sorde. so of the P5            to he dti d ld  only to the  etesnt rqired to win fund,ng mnd thus wore not very
prowincee wId be bteed en           cupported        t     mlsrim  md the remainder      helpful guides for eyetentic Project iesleesteotion   The NDlS  had had no direct
enrollments  Wd a di;edvntsg         is pred to h.e finreced rul;bA  iprove-             control from  the cutst on hoe te mney *I located from the PPEP em  went. as r
inde. end _uproeJct  met            meet Project  (cpiplt.  nteriele  nd otebr           result of a 1682 dc-cieon to esb-ospropriste the fund. to proinei:i budget vote
reltwe" t fe;ible, end              eapenditorees.                                       fund  therfore  Were directly rtoned to the vronincee fro the MPC  ithot pcing
efficient                                                                                through the  eM      n w;hile the tS   remined tochnicel Iy accounteble for the eapend;-
ture. Thus the          me not eble to record and audit fund  al sne  or non-e nt n ry
item. or determine aoctual cependituree. paort,cularly whether Pfuede were gaest for the
activities epecified undr the eProved Project or with what reults.  Lncting me
effectiVe et   fer 4   ct en;oning t,proosls, fn. ntor eg iep lWsttton end necounting for
funds retl_sed under the PPF., the condit;onalit-ee not for te oee_te_nt end oubse-
qent ueti I iaation wr. largely reduced to tory.
7.   To  tf ed train          84 eteff-wnthe of fslleuehipcz    TA   mlmlt   e 78t fr felo ten ope;  roet              There em en initial delqy in hiring en occountent but th, did not _ntorielly Iefect   0
the fledgling unit       20  dteff-yeere for evluetion        _mnsgemt anceedd Ito speciel iat el locetion        Ln/Credit diseureenete.  Over the life of the Project, the Project Mineger chenged
for eWetemic ftr-        epecial iste nd 10  alf-yecre        by B stff-ethe moh; It teat for the evalue-         twlce.  The _scod  _eeer  speointed woe a noetionl in whet eppesred to be a ste  to
stiVe  nd _me-           for a Project Menager ed 6          tion special et WM 8.5 atf-yeare tone.               locl is  the postton.  ibee ;e   he mwm  ater seei geed to antoter poet, end  "elracd
tive  evaltion of        project seeuntet.                                                                        by a contrat (eapetrwiet) offetr.  Tho qumreriWy Project Ibneperes Reports by the
the projectin the _i were very _tftl in highlighting .dinie tre  *mJd f inacial Problems _acoc;iatd
"M    id to                                                                                                       with the veriou  Project activities. ewrticulerly civi  w orks.  rocurm  mnt *nd TA.
trengthen  projec                                                                                                 The Proet $tnogemmet Ct itts. of intsrdqrtmsntal    I erhip. was effective in
nmegmt.                                                                                                           sddresing ime _lemetotion problem per tining to oeerel adminitreation and coordina-
tion (tecruiment, budgetery relieses, rfteroreming of funds. contrect istansione,
procuremnt. civil works. TA). * derived fro  the Project Manager    Reports,' Ibe-
ver. isues in project contet snd eduab tion methodologies. *1o highlighted in the
gaperts, were ot systematical ly addreee*d we no dci ler menaewet body eiseted
entirely within the NM.  Th  SSI, cot led in especial weeions. to deal with projet
ise_  mrs authoritatively wnd rapidly. should *lmo be included in tte singm   t of
futre project.
The lnclete use of the evalution seialints  *Illocation  in  pits of the eatened
project life _ns bec_ue the post of Eeluostion Coordinator i budgeted under recur-
rent funding sI eg with the entire Unit; lowe  f.i 1       seePe wee due toP lath of
suitable condid_tes. The $M lost 2 orf itS esociotee shortly eftr tht completion of
theiri oversemas, studie.



i                                                                                                                                                   CwiMl Ac_l  em
.  To preoide irov           Civil     eto hoe staf             A fmur-bloch building with  n area of sbou         a"t, for F301M, 1Im  fteolitiss ore fuly Mt; *zse. .4,t  zh* eS.tbook stoage gad
and am s_coe-           office.. l fully PonIPed           6.10 att a   constructed for the CDC sod lNW.    pcking arm  becesiag i   INae It. P11T  foci I         a;*  gras'y ond*-#nt. I id atm
dleti   (end am_-       priataeop aRd en   Al,ie ;l It                  t _   wes MS higher th  that          of *xPectad msm (enrol IOWAt is I  W.th  capscite ef 40*. and the indicastit  from
cistad feraltur         stdo for th  C9DlE; a Mtll-   estiobd duris aperaiWal (t Oquivaleat of                PatC to tha  ite mrole i in-servics trs,nin0  al Gh*ly to be redced furthtU in
owd sqipon) for         eqeippd librar, _1mmal             468 vs.  B6 ). but actual overall eivil            light of the  ecent decntrdelisai.oe *sad t.  "ti  of   flold-baae  traWas Wait
th    D. mu.            faci Ities ctl_r,oo. umtbeg        aorla Co em rs ereponl    higher rA  apraisal    that amid coerdi         thie pol-ce.
Peal  the              hWI end host   for POUTC;           eniAst. Which  ag t that *. proec                  Cracks hve" apare  t the textbook stowage ore* end in the *eording  tdio becus
Pri   _en sad             abd taf hoing, for 1t proj-      bildir4n   wotsemler in *ixe thai ple              of post sil conditionr (Oh. PtNTC sit. used to br weugpinds). The staff hous
prjet ""lo-             ect secial 1ets                                                                       which me buit throug  the bepert et of Urban Dossepeent h.* bee  lost isto the
lls"e                                                                                                         pwo  of be_ erneet, bonom  *ad me such are n; lons. oned by an  ot roodly ,cem
*ible to the M
4'



- 40 -
3.5 Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
Category                          Appraisal                     Actual /a
of expenditure            Local    Foreign    Total   Local    Foreign   Total
- - - - - - - - - -(US$ million)- - - - - - - - - -
Civil works                4.8        2.4       7.3/b   0.7        2.1      2.8
Equipment, furniture,
paper                    0.5       2.2        2.8/b   0.5        0.8      1.3
Printing services           /d         /d        /d     0.3        0.7      1.0
Technical assistance       1.1        5.0       6.1      0.9       5.1      6.0
PPEF                      11.3        4.8              24.5        6.4     30.9
Other recurrent
costs /e                                              0.3                 0.3
Contingencies              1.8        3.5       5.4       --        --        --
Total                19.6      18.0       37.7    27.2       15.1     42.3
Note:  Numbers do not add due to rounding of figures in SAR tables.
la All figures provided by the Project Accountant were in kina terms which
were then converted by the mission to US$ using average K to $ exchange
rate from 1982-88 of K 1.00 = US$1.09.
lb Inclusive of community contributions of civil works and furniture for
schools, valued at US$5.8 million in the SAR.
/c Local costs for civil works and furniture refer only to Government expen-
ditures; no record exists of community contributions to these costs.
/d Combined with the equipment category.
/e Information provided by the project implementing unit. Includes expendi-
tures for utilities, rentals, etc. which were not eligible for financing
under the Loan/Credit.



- 41 -
8.8
9.   m"Fiag1
Planned i    dI         aeraenltt             Scgheule 1 Reavilona A.                        Final
Local                                                                              Local
Colnui- 0ov't                                     91114                    41. t    Co_uol-  ov.t
Categmy of expenditure          Wtae   RFM        DA A4   WmD   Total  /bA W                        I W RAAD MO      tie      U   IM & A,    D T    oteu
1. (a) Civil work  at PIIITC     -       0.9     1.S     0.2     2.6         2.5      0.2           2.5      0.1     -       0.7   2.0   0.1       2.8
end CC                                    (1.2)                        (1.9)                 (1.9)                           (1.9)
(b) CoVAnlty-flnanced
eivil        an            6.0     -       -       -       5.8
furniture
2. Equlpent. furnlture. pper    -        0.2     0.9     0.7)                 0.7       0.7         0.7    0.2       -       0.8    0.6    0.2     1.8
ead     - te   itenat.                    (0-7)            2.0        (0.6)                  (0-6)                           (0-6)
8. PrInting e.rviee               -       -       0.1     0.1)                 0.0       0.1         0.0     0.7      -       0.8    0.0   0.7    1.0
(0.1)                       (0.0)                 (0.0)                            (0.0)
4. TUchnicel  _sIten   frw        -       2.6     8.8     2.6     8.4          8.8       2.8         8.0     8.2      -       0.8    2.8    3.2     6.0
*Mort * rvice. end                        (2.e)                        (2.6)                 (2.4)                           (2.4)
trinIng prorgo
T.   ProvlancIl Fud:
(a) 19tl  ectorat program     -       1.2                     8.5                                                 -
(b) 1984 aectoral prceam      -       2.6                     8.8
(c) 1988 *ectorat program     -       4.6                     7.8
Subtotal                      13      LA      2      I1           -LA       2.           LIA     LA              2.1    4       LI    ai
(4.8)                       (4.3)                 (4.8)                            (4.5)
6. Unallcatd                      -       1.6    0.7    0.8    2.9            0.0        0.5         -       0.0      -        -     -       -      -
(0.)                       (0.0)
Other recurrnt coat,           -       -       -       -       -          -           -                   -        -       0.8    -      -       0.8
Total                  LB    32  9              .    I              2 U3     1             2      fLi      a      2.    la    1         32_
(9.4)                       (9.4)                 (9.4)                            (9.4)
en  NI data
Schedule 1 r*m alon, are based on the    dt  to the Loan/Credit Agreeent In Septemter 196 and April 19l87, figure. under WA repree*nt tJS
eqlvelent of OR aetl_eted St the eschange  rate at "pprasem  of SmI 1.00 - U   1.2J; filure  In () are In SD.
A In USI quivelent using the appralal eIchanea ratei flgure. In ( are In SCR.
G_I The  ivil oeer aWd furniture cat. to he born  by the local co_nnitiel were Ineluded In order to e.tidte the tot project ca"t e   thus to
detrine the Loa/Credit ae_ute.  e_wevr. them  cantribution mere not anitored and therfore  couid not be veritfid. this   unfortunat am the
opportuIty wm  lost to bogin a det bowe quatifying   e conl enty- direct contribution- to priery e_hollng in PM. an wayaly   of which %Ouid have
been useful not only for plnning purp_ee  I"n RU tot *tlo to the world-wide Interest In basoc *duoetion that I relevant (comnity-baed   W controlled)
nd affordable ( Ith rteponeibiiIty eharod betwen  the citIznry and the Government).



a..                                                                  0. Stude
_ of Study                       Purpos as Doted at Apialel               Stats                          lopect of Study
Study of Secondary            Conduct of a study of the  untitattlve NW   Completed   The remults of the st1dy were inputs to Ed III whicbh W
Edue tion                     qualitetivw  problem. of lows  and ps        Dec. at,    spprovod ln Mbrch 134.
cry oducatlon  bich wold proive              In$
r_      elons  so necessary national WA
provincial policy and medutional change
reied to incr_sa enrollment, rede
aeand Improve eductlonl atbalnet
at tiome levels.
Evaluatlon of the Secondary                                                Completed   The study w*a pert of the umbrella study on secondary
Schools Carricclm Exdtn-                                                   Jutn 1552   edwoction desined to provide dscision-kners with f*edbsck
sloa  Project (SSCEP)                                                                   on the min   auce and problems of this pilot project.
It noted that student achi;vements in * coebination
academic-proctical ( c malty-baesd) curriculum were at per
wlth thos achblved by regular provincial high echool
students, on the averge. The co cnities with which the
sbtdebts worked on practical projects, and the teachers
Involved In the prors both *xpr s ed satisfaction with          I
it. Th  Ptnts, however, sere approehsive that the
pctlcal bli  of th  program  ould be a detorrnt to their    #
susce"Ifully  _mei   for post-grod 10 plces.  Ed 11t 1
doesnt    a  c            e SaW.



Itdicator                Appraisal                               Actut                                                                            Comments
1    Icread gris              Targets   6n enroll-    The enroll- nt ratio of 71.11 in 1966 (or an awer e            A tatel of K 20.0 *ilIton of the PPE' was ooer.t fc- *-vc lgt eoosne,on project.
enrollm_nt ratio in     _mnt retie and 1:38        annual increase of 45 frog 1601) * 8 abowe project           i.e., support for techer asalries froe  1903-ez '. tt r tn- a  year P*,od enrott-
nity  scols              teclber:pupi l  ratio     targets and rresnts an inerse of 201 In the decade           snt e wnt up by 12i (n average of As ysnll) fc  a' *dd,t,on o1 38.550 rma pri.ma
a:         .                                       1979°-416  girls' enrotimnt se a proportion of the so  7-    s_hol cbildren.  Wtosorthy is the fact that the s-*,*94 gro-th rte fo. enroll-
ircr t eed  iprortion                              12 population rae to 6on (on incre_n of 8a) ehi I                  ;ent. in thw 2 yner precedingt the PPF and the s,ccoad-n  3 years gera highor *t
of femle enrol laat                                that of btrs want up to 77m  or by 286; ond egrlr' aeher     4.711 gd 7n. rempetiwely  whi it thoe for tseeher. 4.51  St end 2.7%. por-, duritn
viea--vil femle                                    in tot enroltlmnt h. increed     the av *rag  to 485         and poet-1I:F average techer:pupi I retirC on the othr hand w*re 131.5 p6rePf
pulatiow   in th  7-                                (Va i.Set;n 1979); the tgcher:ptl retio ht boon              id vow It me In opoft,on, an  1:31.2 POet-PtPF  Th. 0,*rall 1gro   iPn vart;ci-
12 age grou  (baa:                                 nearly Stationary at an avera" 1:81.4 throuegut              ptton rate. in 19l0'8 from Sex to 71.86 was ob-dnely encouraged by the Projet.
41i Vs. 645 for                                     91o-1n.                                                     Th;- pots FM about a third of the distance  ay frao tPE.
boy), mnd Increae                                  FPro  as analss of provincial enrol ttot ts for the years
in techertPuPi                                     1980. 162, 14. 1966 end w1966. sevrerl obesratioe            No spocific policy intorvention  more davalpeod at the natieal lt el to raige the
ratio (bee. 1:81).                                 cn be _ds. With trepect to grads Con inttst. a co_-          proportion of girls enrolled. At the provincial 1evel. 8 prov nncn had projects
parign of the 1966 Wnd 196  shres of prvinces In the        specifically sisa  at the edu*ttion of g,rl.; the Projects incvlded policies to
natienal grod orn totat ab_ged that 7 provc   2/ (SI.   Increase thg propoftion of girls  av,rsd  of grado 7 placen  (4 proics, later
%F. US. MD. VW. Sitga and SWate) incrosoed thoir grde       redwcod to 3). an innovat;iv  achee of hir,ng influttisl comunit.y mashers to *ani-
P   enrol _anta at an  srs  0.9# ;i that period, with       ter gbsateims. especially of giril  (celled the Conwit.y L,aison thlpor SChes),
84 enjoying the hi    t increae  of n. The miority          tho uN. of tho Deschols  ards of PInagesnt *nd Parent nd ecmmnity meetings to
h.d a dad lee, salerein Western sffored the mst with a      enour4ge Parental suport to gir,l'  ronrllmnt and retention, and the block poetieg
dcreas  of 1.13. 9 prowincee (Be, WI. Veeter, SM,           of' female teahder to serwe s. role oodels to rests areas where the ovtleool an
t11 GuR. ItuAj  US ndW NI) had  ea"r gr_ enrot tlnt         "etn'settu  is MDr traditional.
ration for *ll grades then in 19-0  with so at the
bottom of the group  stea share  decls lnd by l.6; 4        The Oroe  enrot Int rtito of grds I chi ldrn  asa 951 in 1968. a 32*  Inp from the
province. (Centrl. E5. Ore and MS) romied at their          160 ratio of 79  which  _is, the provincial esphase  a-n an  ncrdose in iaten as o
1960 levels shi so of tbeeo who rtcordd an increase. MM     atratwy to o*Wd  enrol lmant.
(2.65  end ibrobe (1831) gore on top. As to faomls
enrollment, 4 provInes (gp, Idang. Cilf oad VS) had
9gIls' nrollment ration consistently below the national
aerae for  l 11 sdo   years bad ;n tshe cm   of S"
nd Sibtu in etl yensr but on; overall. to_ever, oaly
US had e decrs. in th  ratio between 19lW5  d 1900
bi t04 (WMI.   1,6. Nf  ) reglete1stred no ce_  wd the
mjority lncresed at an averse 8.a5, t  hies being
Western and tbm  (both 6) amd Egst an_ ibr     Oth
0).
/Trget are derived *ither fro  ate 185 or fra Attehmet 8 to the Agreed Ninuts of Iagotlatlens.
/       bstsrn Highlatds; 0*Watesrs Htighlands: 1W-Wet Spi:; ICO-Ittionel Capitol Disti st;  lS-Vast  We Sritsi; 15-bt Mt  gritain: IS-i Ole by: ON-Sathern wighlands; NI-Ito reland;
WEU  Saib: l6-ftothv t sleme"; tbh aoktr ovine  oftS era bge*  Sig"e  b e. Os_g _ If, Vi1trn, Oro. _bnu. Cental, ad VWliunga (Lake  ray).



Ind;e toa'                Aeprai_l                                  ActuaI                                                                              COMMa
2    Reduced coeort drop-      Trge t 2:   .              The ehort drpout rate grewore as it incroreod to or    A mere K 0.18 for evry K 1.00 of the PPEM  ar*t  cr s.,oc:t   :"ect. *iredted towad
out rate in                                          averaed of 34  from 16-  and a"e at e  hie;         t In       railneg the qalty of education and the reteQ  c' sct.eanT    13 of the 20
nity ohoole (b.                                      1967 and 196, when It wa  Ml. N   l eear ptren c n be    provines hed retention projecs in the f*or  d'  occ- ; up cf schocl to ineur
305).                                                dilorrned froe the etwdent flow deta for 1968546. There    contiuuity of progression frm grade to grade             ro-emeats  r. tg ;earn-ne ene iron-
wooras to be nerly es Noch droppmne out belen  th           e meet with  et ter classroom  snd more deeks  comerc_alg *-cr tur project. for
amd end the firot grade._a  between the sixth and               ducational relevance Ps  ellI o a  ecurce of *ood for school lumch program  mnd soe
fifth grade.  Intereetingly. the chorto in 196. 19            gy of genating Income for the echt "ita  act*.ta. and echeme to monitor t         chool
med 196  exhiblt the le_et inter-grade attrition bet-         attenane  with th  involvement of the communty   Wh. tho dropout rate incre_d
ween fourth and third grades.                                  during the projet period in epite of thee. *nt*rcentione  if modest. my be due to
the  incre_c of nerolled pupil. coning free dicadvente ed grovip, which hove a
higher tendency to leave  _chol  Regrettabi  the reduction of the dropout raet De
a cell-identified etrtegy at appraisal to increaae enrollment ratie without tho
need to open ne  1chools or hir  nme teacher. ws not made centrol to the attain-
met of  PE r*letive to the costlier atrtegy of  ncreased ne  intake.  In 1966, the
tact y_er of the tfP as an *I locatie mea       e.  a son onunt of   360,000 we oor-
serked to suppert the comanity school cectoral program. a care 41 of the averase
annual a location of K 9.3 a;llion durino the PPE years (1        6)  of this, half
(K  t181417) wa epeht for the "retention bnd ach .vcant* coeponont and the other
half for eubproeject to *spand accr. represntanog just SS ot whet was spent during
the WP8  yers.
S.   Increased pupil           Target: 601.               Avra  student perfornor in the Ntilonal Crade Six               It Is premture to attribu  the ,voee_nt  n student perfooumnce to the Project.
achievent level                                      Examinations (NOE) for Engl;ih and-mat  increased crn-    unlem  an in-depth evaluation is done, particular,ly bcaus   he * exams "e 'dindo- I
at sinth grade                                       ;atently from  yeer to yeer for the period 196246 with         tered in luly 197 when the met signif.cant input of the Project to pupil learning.    °
(be: etas acor of                                    the increaee beteen 192 and 198 ecoree  tsti atic l Ily        I..., the teetboa-. wee. only beginning to become *av  lable   Even then the firet
40-^5).                                              significant at the 0.2 level.  Th;- was true in all            ;eDu ewe grade 4 baoke only. This ia to ray that over the n.rt 3-5 yeare when the
province.  Cclaistently gernering eaore  oey above the        uie of proect teetbocke and other euppleentry   te-r ala a,r  expected to take
national overage were NM, Manus, Enga mad 84 while             effect, the level of student performance can be expected to grow at a hbgher rate.
thoe  at the oppoait end wera VS, Wtern, Northern             The full potential of the new type of test should be carri*d beyond descriptive
(Or*) and Gulf. The set that can be sid about thm             o etieAtics into becoming a crucial input for ms-ng deci-sons on ol cy and p -rogr
findingo, taking into account ItU' caveato regarding           variable. ehown to offect performance.
it. ugo of the Rasct IbdIl for standardit;ng hltM teet
ecores (in term of accuracy as applied to multiple
chkoce question, end e.ningfulnee of the resulting
ecore  being an uncron mauro of achieveent), is
that there ha. been r drop in stondards in English and
maths. The ne exam developed by the MJ, Pnd *dainis-
tered to seith grades in 1967 and 190, which does not
allow coepaorisone wth *e. r*eulto in 1962-S8.
sddrese   thwe  inadequacies.
4.   Improved supply of        28 book title.;            45 bool  title. of pupil teats and teacher guides in           For the first tie. comenity school textbooks eaprealy er,tten for PPC learner,
teaching matrials         4e6,5^0 copies.            1.435,500 copies, 5,500 lit.. 12.000 baa. 10 block, ^nd    hae-  become ssilable in a continuing sories (at lseat fro  grad*s 4-6) in the corp
for the core arers                                   teped brodcast leecon.                                         eubj cot..  Production of new textbooks, nd bits for the lower Pr mry grades, i ...
in gradea 4-6.                                                                                                      'Our English for  ellnseis Series' to r14lece the outdotd Pacific Sories, cam
atter that for the upper primary grade. For this met basic r' lesrning q eita-
mante to have the deoi red I;ract on the qu lI ty of *ducat. or   e 'a - al that th
distribution of books be fficient end that teachers receive croopt *nd adequate
training in the w_  of the now materials.



nd icstor                 Appr*a;i                                  Actuoa                                                                              Coments
Btter qualifled               During thr project          About 1.600 teacher* complted educational uppr&ding/           The not Inconsiderable in_ee_nt of t h- - p=d-; t.  e--sd-tial
comr;ity eheol            period. 2,100 course.      profsional training courses, reprec nting 26111 af             training facilitine of POiTC wa cons.len.t . ni  te           as. thu center of oll in-
techer. head-             for teachers from  *       Und.rquIlifiedS, as did 79M  hMedWster or 401 of the           orvice training at the time.    vr  endar t.. Nat t. Ed4C&t.*  Syetsse Policy
eters rand inetpe-        oTol of 4,00 under-        target grou,                                                   for Sff Development of 1WO. with  st hi-Sen  c# -rai-niv  ,IST, program for
tars  nd An inftitu-      qatlifieda; 910                                                                           arr*ing teachers to be deCentralited *nd the . o-erapht to the reepvonbility of a
tionel izsd capecity      course  for 2,000                                                                         newly-created Fi-ld-bead Services Unt -n th. SD..  P0IITC's rol we lead apgncy in
for continuous in-        heedmetere end 240                                                                        training e irrine teachers directly  a no lonper  nIvtiit  le ua. be asJkd to con-
service (reeidnw-         cour,e for 180                                                                            teribte _reource perons to provinc.&I/d.strict tr*ining progra   (and itr fociliI-
tal) training.            inoectr.                                                                                  ties shared In the training of trainera) but et  staff's ecadesic  rnd center-baeed
orientation poes a difficulty.  Consideration should be gien to PiMTC'. partial
or full return to its previous status as a prearv-e  teacher treining collge
and/or Its rcstructuring to allew it to plty a significant role in the decntralised
WT progre, particularly in the area of  so,ro-ni  the academic qualification  of
ti,ee teachers who pro just a little above the acadewec level of their gorde 6
pupils.
6.   lrad proportion           Trained cadre of 70        S8 _aciate, cowletd or are in the proe_e of                    A roduction In coats me definitely achieved i epGte of th  -nrease in the total
of intdign-               teacher trainers           ceplsting thwir couraes  of whd  20 here pteyed with           number of leersrG due to a clear reduction i, the ruser of *zpatrto staff in
treaers overall In        reulbting  in a 506        oe of the teacher training college; the acadeic                thw teacher training colleges.
prmary t_eehr             Staff localiation          qalifications of 24 marring lecters were upgraded and    It apers. hoesrr, that a higher ratr of local,zation could he" been achieved had
training college          overal I i teacher         anotbor 24 lecturers sent for refresher course  for a          the attrition rate for trained lecturer beon lest swbstantial than its record of
(b_ee  2) and             colleg"  and a reduc-      totl of e0 better qualified toeeher training collee            441. To prevent the leos  of sove trained staff. conaideration aheuld be gire  to an
redued  coat of           tion in coat of            staff.                                                         in-det  revire of uorling condition  and the career dav*lopsant of e.ieting ataff
teacher-trainer           trainer earelets by        In 1167. N1W of taff in a1l teacher training college           wito a rie  to  nrinp their long-ter, comi teant to teacher education   An arems
s teries.                 22 fro  US22.7 1 to        pr         ad * dogre" comer"d with 61.65 in 1979.             aown  my_. thot deosrve looking into is the rat.onblization of staff time spent on
US62.1 II.                 Localization of staff ed 68.61 or double Its 1979              nn-tehn            e dutie (boarding age,ignunte, etc.)
level.  0Oerall salary cats for 185 lecturrs, in ell          Oblity-aise, en i;pect  aluation study done by iDOt using qusetionnairoe  coe
tacher training coll gw in 1926 _a  K 1.386.269 or            studies and intarvi;_. end Supervisores  raports, re*Ve1 that those who trained
about I 10,060 per lecturer. Milier than annual unit          under the aciatehiP/fellohip progres (as a group) exhibit positive rilities
ealary eoss of K 13.400 at appraisal in 1979                  tonrd their wrk, their studets end their professional collaague
7      tter trained starf      Trailnd cadre of 6         9 trained in library davel_psant but only 2 are left to        The iseet, of the library coa_o*nt at the community achool level w 11 be deter-
to led in effont          librarias and 10 69C       carry out trainingt end advisory swork with t   provine.    mined ovWr the lall-term, firt, by the successfl Popularization of libraries mnd
to develsp and            mngra.                     2  ofesficers trained in the organization end t_nagent         thir use for improved  chisvs"pnt of Pvpil- in th ir s chool sorb  nd for oseting
"Nog  schol                                          of 3s.                                                         the readint *nd lknaledg  requirsat    of the literate population in the ini..-
libraries anw   sa.                                                                                                 tie    nd _eAe nd. by the leve  of funding _de available for the provision of
library boo_e at affordable meot  to bobt the Oovernoent and the ce_nity  c_1-.
Oht with only 2 natioesl oaffcrs avai labI  to advise, nd train comnity schoo
teache  in the iortaonc  of libraries end library  &;Ila. school lbrariew - me
be segected to contributs significantly to the isprovasnt of educational   at ity
for a tonD tiet   to case.
only 2 povincesihaveam. which ha"  bee  operating betvn IW0-e6  and fi hart"
prepom_ls to eatablish GC  in 1969; 7 hav, no plans at all   14 of the 996  do not
hewr* a ful-tie position for en In-brviie Training Coordinator
both co_Onenta sight have had bettor snd so  immediate results if the lork of the
contrat adviors hW  bee  tied cloemly to the p _eosnp of prciect to be giwen
high Priority fundings  udsr the PP.  As it happened, there wsa geat anthaiam  in
the begianing on the tert of noerly all the provinces but uhtever  plan  thy had
eas shelved *Ith the dwe rtura of the advisor. and for lac ef funding eup_ort.



ladicatm                 ppral_al                                                                                                                 Commeon.
8.   nbtittionllxaed          traied cadre of 8         18 cwrricul./te*to e     aritr. 2 In grapie. 6 In            The A, wM der Considerable difficutit.e  *etan.  t- *taft etc-ne   coord6not.n;
capallItI ftr can-      cwrriculualteathoak       pho_Co-position and I eg  In brondcwting/a4io.               the1 veue  1t1fviteea involved in bQa& aublrnp. and t*-_ coeterfints. produced
ting1_  davelcamt.    writara. 8 printiup          visl. taztho editing ga  pubtlishing. for a tota  of         the deire  textbooke for the       anity achoel  at tnw eoa_ ties it produce  too
field trialline.         coaers ,ed * adior-          etoff. went few traIning   f who 10 era st Il ia Wh       for tIg provifnct biligh _clool. mnder Ed hSS Tho casacit, hw  been succe  ftuly
rWii, production         vimml ataf                CO.                                                          Aieved ead w;il be &*teinted by the Oowe"evwnt' tae.tbok rggspply progra  for
oad diabribvtiga of                                                                                             2969-U. Chonuin  curricultw researclh and wlwut.on. field t,ialling of book
tatamlae sod                                                                                                    prototype  end book dlatrilvtw an need iompoenant. howe"e
i_ctrutionl a;ide
wad media.
9.   netittiomofaIsd          Po      n        es       Acmmdation  were built as ihe PUTC eite a"t the 2            NWV tue beaw  dader the aomnta recurent budgt since IWO cad is funtiosing
capaki i* far cam-       ecedation. for the           _m o cae who ware taid. ocuy senior p_;_ *at    well. All 4 of Its objectives.  ;w_as  the rSfaoe of the tSE. the StItdada
tinowe Sewalitallg       NWt wad a tranad U        tO WU.                                                       tlitoriag Project, the development of t_at  atearala in the 4 ccre subjacte wad the
mWaIN appropiate         cadre of 4 eawinam-                                                                    redev licwet of th  *Ure fbtnaal Examinctions Syatee to reflac. educat,onal
ewvalaIon Ittner-        tiona offare,                                                                          aie, tave beet succeesfully eat. The Standarde  on itoriang Project woo a nejor
wat_e, of eted_at'                                                                                              achievement which stadardized teat scoree for cowariso  froa yer to y3ear. OM
teerniag achieve-                                                                                             bha  furthered Its worl on etendardo monitoring thougt a nationl teat introed  in
-mt.                                                                                                            IS  which w1 ld not only mmare wupil performance in relation to  rp _       r. a
deslred  ;npt to target-eattin -; especially in reducing irequal.tieo  of -cheoing
outcoame. bu wuld ales  _apre ar   tecrformn    ei-*i-* a wet ofb    e awtskills which
*r re1wat* aad ;maintul to cem.ty  I i-i.n    toe   a p*cted of  pupils et oiath
grade, a vital ifrte Watn bet for curriculue dvleopmant. teacher trainig and
other educational i;p_.e.
10. Ititatiooliged            TraoWd cadre of 40        OS offscera *rained of  hch         are OM  graduates; 2     OSel  r of the P OM  gradte  are presetly  qloywd as SPA and 4 as Aaiat l
pream  of preparn        provincial aN  10         are SSId (lanisg) gradtes; 29   tiont and provin-            Secretaries whoIl only SS of thome trained by SWTE  st;ill hold the ame pealta
mediun-ter educ-   _ etI  adao;einietrt-           sbl officre r were_ tined at Dg67l; aWd 5 trained at    or amuNvlent psitan in anotebt provite. This meane that 12 POEgF do ntl
tienal plat ad of  <       {oela  ers.              NWA.                                                        hve" a trined plne. The Dilvid   eeo sder made a rwqre  qalificatioa for the
annally rolln  the                                                                                              position.
plan, at Notional                                                                                               The five-year plan  developed ti 196 were rlled by about half theproe;vcas
and provwicil                                                                                                  wvriously in 194 (I POS), 1J5 (4 PODE) sad 1986 (5 PDOS) w.t 2 other f1E
levels.                                                                                                        doing      data revd;riin  and tthe rs not touching theilr ae at *ll  bi 1966.
1967 sod I . f*ollowiOg tb  reduced funding for educption, *al  but 2 provisce
adifi"  their plans to ea  eate" is keeping with the ne  d to rationalizse bt
intae patterns et  rade   I end WStffing requiregents.  At the pregnt tie. only 7
PI'. ae" Plan to guido their e,uca;ironl activities.  It appear that in am
Pr"ovics  planning revolves erewad the Camity School Planner, a prformtied
device dvtlod by the  wet  MA to fecilitets data eolttion/dt;og
Through Oa_n_eat inItiative, t_e Ibsant. and Planning tinit (WV) aWe etab-
I ;ehed  in 19  to provide contii;ag TA to the proinceo. To bo effectve*. oevr
the IU bht_ to at as WAnd WA    P coorinator rolled into one.
11. Closer cordination        Snitil aCtreo of          Th mNNy metin  organized to thras out iawes, the             Coordinaion iea *   lippery tars. permitting a wide range of dwf.n,tiona _ad indict
betaon  currsiclum       locatin  the WC an        reovtl of whiec  could lead to clome coordination            tare.  l this Project, a clemrer co_ct of coordination could bae  ben provided
deelopmt and             thw      a ito  a         be nth  teatbooke produetd by the COD and the                If traing teacher  in the tue of texthocs bafo-e they  ea iotroduced in the
teacher traig.           Pt7C.                     teaer boong ;in-ervicd by POIMTC, did not reslt in           caelro   hd bem apcified. Regrettably, the sbance  of a datalad. fuaded  nd
a clear-delineation of rolte betwen  the 2 NlM              manitorubte plan for teetbook training did not only oCmtnibute to the difficulty of
ine*tromote itie, mwch lees in the desired integration      wreetlng with the* con t but asct thct the potential of tIe wtb tooka t an
of the Pllaning end icpae astion _eecs of their             effective teachinelmtr;nin  tool ta  not been futly realiawa
related activiies unde  the Pro;ec.



1t~
j I  F  i  | {I II II tI I i:  
tfl.!  Ii''-tal!! ii2     i
i2t tli; ts.tiltflI
i' 8lt je[}0S
st1  4 t[f   f W 2 l lI



48 -
3.7 Status of Covenants
Deadline for
Covenant                          Subject                        compliance         Status
Section 3.02          Employ specialists satsifactory to       During project       Met
the Association                          operations
Section 3.04(c)       Prepare a completion report not          June 30, 1989        Overdue
later than 6 months after the
Closing Date
Section 3.06(i)       Submit for the Association's review    (i) Dec. 31, 1982   Met
and comments (i) baseline data and       (ii) Annually
(ii) evaluation data on the impact            1984-87
of the Project on the Borrower's
primary education system
Section 3.07          Submit consolidated provincial plans   Dec. 31, 1982          Met
for enrollment expansion for 1983-
87
Section 3.08          Submit the study of secondary educa-   Dec. 31, 1983          Met
tion for the Association's review
and comments
Section 3.09          Allocate funds in the sectoral           During project       Met
program for primary education among    operations
the provinces for their subprojects
in accordance with criteria satis-
factory to the Borrower and the
Association
Section 3.10(i)       Select subprojects for the sectoral    During project         Met
program for primary education in         operations
accordance with criteria mutually
agreed between the Borrower and the
Association
(ii)      Submit for the Association's review    Dec. 1982              Met
and comments, prior to the operation
of the sectoral program for primary
education for 1983, a detailed des-
cription of one representative sub-
project for each Region
Section 4.01(iii),   Submit project accounts to an inde-    During project          Met
(iv)     pendent audit and submit to the          operations
Association the report of the audit
including a separate opinifn by the
auditor on certificates of expendi-
tures



- 49 -
8.8 Use of Sank Resources
A. Stf Inputs
(fit esff *weeks)
Planned            Revised                Final
Stag. of Project Cycle                  MR  Field    FMHOi + Field                                    Comernte
Through appraisal                        NA      NA         __       __            67.2          Information available
Appr isl through                                                                                 lncludes only total
Board approvsl                         NA      NA         --       ^-            21.7          time actually spent
Bo0rd approval                                                                                   at each stago
through Effectiveneoa                  NA      NA         --       --             NA
Supervision                              NA      NA         --       --            28.7
Total                                                                      112 6
NA Not available.
-- None or not applicable
8. Misslon Data
Stag. of Project       Month/              No. of        Days In  Specialization    Porformance Rating  Type of
Cycle            Your                Persons       Field /! Represented L            Status /c      Problems L
Reconnaslsnce I           Mar 1977                 1            2     GE                            --               --
Subsector Study (Unesco) Feb/Mar 1979              2           40     E,GE
Reconnaissance II         July 1979                8           16     E OE:OEL                      --               --
Preparation (Unesco)      Oct/Nov 1979             5          100     E,OE  A, AVC, S               --               --
Preappraisal I            Nov/Dec  1979            8           4C     A,GE,E                        --               --
Preppralsal II            Apr 1960                 1            1     GE                            --               --
Totl through
appraisal                                            208
Appraisal throuph
Boord approvei          July/Aug 1960            2           20     A, TextC                      --              -
Board approval
through Effectiveness  --                       _-           __     __                            __              __
Supervision:
I         Mar 1981                 1            S     GE                             1               --
II        Feb 192                  1            6     GE                             1               --
III       June-July 1992           1            7     GE                             1               --
IV        Apr 198                  2            2     A,OE                           1                M
V         July 1984                1            8     A                              1                N
VI        Mor-Apr 1986             8            6      GE, E, E                      1                U
VII       Oct-Nov 198C             8            4      E GE,A                                         a
VIII      Mar 1986                 1            8      E                             *                o
IX        Oct-Nov 1986             1            4     E                              1                F
X         Mar 1968                 1           _       E                             1                F
Subtotal                                                  43
Completion   May 1969                 1           14      GE                           --               --
Total supervislon                              57
-- None or not applicable.
Unobte to locate in Bank's file.
In person-days spent on this Project.
G E-Oeneral Educator; E-Economist; A-Architect; AVC-Audio-Visual Consultant; S-Secretary; TextC-Textbook
Consultant.
1-Problem free or minor problems; 2-Moderate problems; 8-Major problems.
O-Overell; D-Development itmpct; F-Funds aveilability; M-Managerinl.
Zc One GE was with the Unesco Cooperative Program and the other from the World Bank.



_ 50 -
Comments
Strictly speaking, this project received only an estimated 4-5 staff
weeks of supervision throughout the seven-year period of implementation.
However, considering that the missions fielded from April 1984 well into 1986
(total of 13 staff-weeks) were preponderantly concerned with the preparation
and, then, appraisal of a follow-on project to this one, the amount of time
spent on supervision would be more like 10 staff weeks. Although the Second
Primary Education Project did not materialize, its preparation had provided
the opportunity to both GOvernment and Bank to comprehensively review the
First Primary Education Project, and had resulted in the adoption of a few of
the measures (envisaged for the proposed project) during the term of Education
II utilizing Government funds.



