Document of
The World Bank                     FILE Copy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repoa No.P-2912-PNG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT
TO INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FOR A
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
December 1, 1980
This doument ks a restriced distbution and may be used by recipients only in the performnce Of
their Oficial duties. Its Contents May not otherwise be disclosed witot World Bank authorition.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Kina
US$1.00   =   K 0.67
K 1.00    -   US$1.50
ABBREVIATIONS
CDC              -  Curriculum Development Center
ERC               -  Educational Resource Centers
NDOE              -  National Department of Education
NPEP              -  National Public Expenditures Plan
NPO               -  National Planning Office
NDWS              -  National Department of Works and Supply
OPC               -  Office of Project Coordination
PMC               -  Project Management Committee
POMITC            -  Port Moresby In-service Teachers College
Provincial Fund  -  Provincial Primary Education Fund
UPNG              -  University of Papua New Guinea
GOVERNMENT OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
SCHOOL YEAR
January - December



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Credit/Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Papua New Guinea
Beneficiary:       National Department of Education (NDOE)
Amount:            Credit:       US$12.0 million (SDR 9.4 million)
Loan:         US$ 6.0 million
Total: US$18.0 million
Terms:             Credit:  Standard
Loan:    For a period of 20 years, including a grace period
of 5 years, with an interest rate of 9.25% p.a.
Project
Depcription:    The proposed project aims at improving management of educa-
tional resources, upgrading the quality of primary educa-
tion, and increasing enrollments by supporting government
efforts to extend access to primary education in the prov-
inces. The project consists of: (a) strengthening local
planning and administrative capacity by financing
in-service training programs for senior educational
administrators and planners; (b) assisting in preparation
of provincial educational plans; (c) improving primary
teaching materials, including textbooks; (d) improving and
expanding physical facilities of an in-service training
college to help train teaching staff in the use of media,
including textbooks; and (e) assisting provinces to extend
access to and improve quality of primary education through
financing provincial education programs. Gross enrollment
ratios are expected to increase from 58% to 68% by the end
of the project. Two thirds of this enrollment increase
would be females. Some 150,000 children would receive
improved textbooks and other instructional materials and
about 430 poorly qualified teachers and headmasters would
be trained annually. Increased class size would improve
the efficiency of the system and the dropout rate is
expected to fall from 30% to about 25%. The project faces
implementation risks regarding the provincial program,
through which assistance will be provided to the provinces.
The provincial programs which the project supports have only
been in operation for a year and evaluation of provincial
proposals for financing of capital and recurrent costs have
proven difficult because strategies and targets have not yet
been specified. The project includes specific features
(technical assistance and preparation of education plans) to
minimize these risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:                                           Local  ro e i,   oLal
(US$ M) ------
Administration training                   0.4     0.8      1.1
Curriculum development                    1.4     4.1      5.4
Teacher training (in-service)             0.9     1.4      2.3
Provincial primary education             14.5     6.2    20.7
Staff housing                            0.4      0.2      0.6
Preparation of future projects            -       0.2      0.2
Evaluation and management                 0.2      1.6     1.8
Baseline costs                           17.4    14.5    31.9
Contingencies                             1.3
Total Project Cost                 19.6    18.0    37.7
Financing Plan:                                     Local           World
commu-          Bank
nities  Gov't  Group  Total
--------- (US$ M) ---------
Civil works at POMITC and CDC    -         0.9    1.7      2.6
Comraunity-financed civil works
and furniture                    5.8    -       -        5.8
Equipment, paper, printing,
furniture and materials          -      0.2    --        2.0
Technical Assistance
Expert services including
professional services          -      2.0    4.6      6.6
Training programs                -       0.6    1.2      1.8
The Provincial Fund
Cost of sectoral programs
incurred during calendar
years
1983                      -       1.2    2.3      3.5
1984                      -       2.6    2.7      5.3
1985                      -       4.8    2.5      7.3
Unallocated                        -       1.6    1.2      2.8
Total                   5.8   13.9   18.0    37.7



- iii -
Estimated          Bank Group FY:  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988
Disbursements:                                --- (US$ mln.) ------------
Annual            0.2   1.6   4.4   4.4   4.4   2.0   1.0
Cumulative        0.2   1.8   6.2  10.6  15.0  17.0  18.0
Rate of Return:   n.a.
Staff Appraisal   Report No. 3027(b)-PNG, dated November 18, 1980.
Report:






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN AND CREDIT TO INDEPENDENT STATE OF
PAPUA NEW GUINEA FOR A PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit and a Loan to the Independent State of Papua New Guinea
for a Second Education Project for the equivalent of US$18.0 million of
which SDR 9.4 million (US$12.0 million) would be a credit on standard IDA
terms and US$6.0 million would be a loan for a period of 20 years with
5 years of grace at 9.25% interest p.a. to help finance primary education.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report, "Papua New Guinea:  Economic Situation
and Prospects" (Report No. 2157-PNG), was distributed to the Executive
Directors in December 1978. Updated information was obtained in October
1979 and June 1980. The following discussion of the economy of PNG is based
on this work. Details of recent economic data can be found in Annex I.
Structure of the Economy
3.        Papua New Guinea is a land of rugged and sometimes impenetrable
mountains, rich valleys and coastal plains, and numerous widely scattered
islands. It is favored with abundant rainfall, considerable mineral
resources, and forestry and fishery resources of good commercial potential.
The capital city, Port Moresby, with a population of about 100,000, is an
enclave, with no road links to other parts of the country, and is the
largest urban settlement in what remains an overwhelmingly rural society.
The most striking feature of PNG's economy is the dualism reflected in the
relatively small employment in the modern monetary sector and the large
proportion of the population engaged in the traditional agricultural sector.
The modern sector is dominated by the Bougainville copper mine and by the
expatriate community which was previously part of the Australian
administration and which still contributes significantly to both the public
administration and the private sector. Mining contributes 20-25% of GDP,
and the government sector and a variety of small manufacturing and service
establishments contribute about half of GDP. Agriculture, forestry, and
fishery, which employ about 85% of the labor force, provide the remaining
25-30% of GDP, with half of the sectoral output coming from subsistence
agriculture.



- 2 -
4.         Per capita GNP in 1978 was US$560, but this average includes the
Bougainville copper mine, an enclave operation located on an island, as well
as the nonnationals, less than 1% of the population, whose incomes average
roughly 20 times those of nationals.  When only nationals are considered,
economic dualism in PNG is not as significant an issue as encountered in
other countries with a similar economic structure. The average government
salary, excluding nonnationals, is only about five times the estimated
income of a subsistence household. While this difference does indicate the
presence of inequalities, they are less extreme than, for example, in many
African countries. The Government's development objectives call for a
further reduction in disparities. At the same time, the Government has
developed policies to minimize the impact of dualism in specific areas. For
example, the renegotiation of the agreement with Bougainville Copper Ltd.,
ensured that the Government would get the bulk of profits over a certain
level. Since the remainder of the profits accruing to the company and much
of the expenditure incurred in the operations of the mine are paid overseas,
they have little impact on local incomes.
5.         PNG faced a critical period before and immediately following
independence when, for three consecutive years (FY75-77), the economy failed
to grow significantly. This resulted from the international recession as
much as from conditions in PNG, but it compounded the difficulties faced by
an emerging nation. In 1978, GDP rose by nearly 6.5% in real terms, but
preliminary figures show a decline in 1979, due mainly to declining
production of copper concentrates and a fall in investment. Of continuing
concern is the slow growth of the agricultural sector, particularly the
major agricultural exports. Because of rising world prices for most of
PNG-s major agricultural and mineral exports, however, the purchasing power
of real GDP, adjusted for changes in the terms of trade, rose an estimated
5% in 1979 compared to a small decline in 1978. Until the Ok Tedi copper
and gold mine begins production (in 1984), growth rates of GDP are unlikely
to reach the high levels of the past (an average of 8% during 1968-74,
largely due to the Bougainville copper mine), but there is still much room
for improvement, particularly in the agricultural sector.
6.        The large fluctuations in the growth of PNG-s economy result
partly from its vulnerability to international economic conditions. Imports
are high, and international inflation is quickly passed on. Exports are
dominated by four commodities - copper concentrate, coffee, cocoa, and copra
which contribute about 85% of total export earnings. Price fluctuations can
thus have a severe impact on the economy. In addition, PNG runs a
substantial structural deficit on its current account, the counterpart of
the large budgetary grant from Australia, equivalent to about one-third of
exports.
7.        The Government has taken a number of steps to reduce the impact of
variations in the international economy. A Mineral Resources Stabilization
Fund smooths the impact of fluctuating copper prices on the budget, and



- 3 -
stabilization funds for coffee, cocoa, and copra are designed to reduce the
oscillations in incomes of producers, thereby also dampening price-induced
supply responses and contributing to the stability of government revenue.
To date the management of these funds has been very disciplined and has
reduced the fluctuations in government spending that would otherwise have
occurred. A three-year wage agreement limited the rise of both public and
private sector wages to that of the consumer price index, thus ending the
sharp upward spiral of real wages that occurred during 1972-75, and this
principle has since been extended for another three years, with a maximum
allowed increase of 11.75%. The hard currency policy followed by the
Government has helped to cut down inflation to an average of 6% p.a. in the
last three years, compared to an average of more than 12% in earlier years.
In the area of foreign aid, the Government negotiated a four-year agreement
with Australia, the major donor, and is currently negotiating an extension
of that agreement for the years following 1980. These agreements have
helped the Government to proceed in an orderly manner with its development
planning.
Development Issues
8.        The major issues which will affect the Government's ability to
promote economic development are the formulation of a national development
strategy and planning mechanism, the decentralization of government activi-
ties, and the ability to achieve self-reliance, both in staffing and in
public financing. In tile immediate post-independence period a concerted
effort has been undertaken to define a set of economic and social policies
and to establish the means by which decisions in allocating government
resources will be taken in a disciplined and consistent manner. More weight
has been given to developing a viable economic strategy and a decisionmaking
process for the use of government resources than to the preparation of a
comprehensive development plan. Three major steps have been taken in PNG in
the last three years: (i) a national development strategy has been defined;
(ii) a set of sectoral programs and strategic objectives/criteria has been
identified to provide the basis for resource allocations; and (iii) a
process for evaluating new investment proposals based upon (ii) has been
established.
9.        The national development strategy places a high priority on im-
proving the quality of life of the rural population. Its thrust focuses on
rural development, emphasizing the less developed areas of the country. It
includes the development of a few large natural resource projects aimed at
reducing the present very heavy reliance on aid and leading towards economic
self-reliance. The first objective recognizes not only the agricultural
potential of the country, but also the fact that the agricultural sector
will be for quite a few generations the main source of income generation and
employment. The second objective, while not directly benefitting the vast
majority of the population, is intended to provide a resource base, thus



allowing the implementation of development programs. The implementation of
the second objective clearly entails the import of foreign capital and
expertise. PNG has developed a policy of encouraging private investment for
the exploitation of the country-s resources, while attempting to minimize
its own investment in these areas and to maximize the revenues it would
obtain from such developments.
10.        To carry out its development strategy, the Government established
the annual National Public Expenditure Plan (NPEP), a rolling four-year plan
for the public sector which focuses political decision-making on the
relative size of the allocations to each program or objective and therefore
on the tradeoffs between them. Government departments are then assigned
portions of each category to be achieved through specific projects. While
the basic aims of the NPEP are to link the planning process with overall
macro-economic policy and to direct public spending to the activities that
have the highest national priority, its impact is limited by its coverage of
new projects only. The first NPEP accounted for only 4% of the 1978
expenditures (K 20 million), but future plans will cover increasing portions
of the budget as government revenues grow, ongoing projects are completed
and a continuing review of existing expenditures leads either to their
elimination or their reformulation and inclusion in the NPEP. In the 1980
budget, the NPEP encompasses over one-fifth of total expenditures.
Implementation of NPEP projects has been delayed by lack of staff and
experience, but it appears that the 1979 Plan was nearly on target.
11.        Implementation of the NPEP is also affected by the
decentralization process now taking place, since greater provincial control
over spending will reduce the Central Government-s ability to pursue its
priorities, while inadequate staffing will interfere with the ability of the
provinces to follow their own plans. PNG's topography made it a country of
scattered tribes, with no great sense of national unity, and a degree of
political decentralization was a necessary response to secessionist
pressures. Provincial governments are gradually assuming regulatory and
financial control in some areas and will share power with the Central
Government in others. Provincial governments are financed through Central
Government conditional and unconditional grants, Central Government refunds
of certain revenues, and their own taxation measures. Unconditional grants,
which allow provinces to spend according to their own priorities, are by far
the most important source of finance; but while in the 1980 budget they
comprised over 80% of Central Government payments to the provinces, they
amounted to less than one-quarter of total Central Government revenues. One
of the most serious problems facing provincial governments is the shortage
of trained and experienced staff, and their most urgent priority is to
develop the capability for budgeting, planning, and project identification
and preparation. The Central Government and other organizations assisting
the provinces must make a concerted effort to orient inputs toward that
goal.



12.       Self-reliance in PNG involves both staff and financial resources.
The Government has made substantial progress in replacing nonnationals with
nationals, especially considering that the University of Papua New Guinea
(UPNG) produced its first graduates as recently as 1972. However, the
country still relies heavily on nonnationals for many necessary services.
In the public sector, localization has reached an overall level of 90%,
compared to 80% in 1971, but at the higher levels of skill requiring
post-secondary education, the proportion of nationals is still only around
40%. This situation has created a relatively high cost Government and a
dependence on foreign aid to help meet these costs. The shortage of
qualified staff is reflected in the existing vacancies in Government, and in
some departments the shortage of professionals is critical. The
establishment of provincial governments is adding to the pressures on
existing staff, as the Central Government intends to staff provincial
governments with no increases in the overall size of the F. blic service.
The Government's response to these problems is a localization effort
directed at replacing nonnationals and meeting increased manpower
requirements through recruitment of local personnel.
13.       Training courses are given by the private sector and by most
government departments and statutory authorities to meet their own needs. A
centralized training scheme is under study. The Public Service Commission
has also launched a Senior Executive Training Program to prepare Papua New
Guineans to take over high level positions in the Government.
14.       The Government's efforts to attain financial self-reliance empha-
size modest but steady and sustainable growth in real public expenditure
accompanied by a reduction of reliance on foreign aid (particularly from
Australia). The Government has worked successfully to increase domestic
revenue which has grown from 10% of GDP in FY68 to 21% in 1978. Domestic
revenue, which accounted for only about 36% of government receipts in FY68,
supplied 60% of the total in 1979. Tax revenue accounts for about four
fifths of domestic revenue. Over the past seven years, the Bougainville
copper mine has been a major source of domestic revenue, averaging 18% of
the total and reaching a peak of 27% in FY76, and another large gold and
copper mine is expected to start production in 1984.
15.       PNG is heavily dependent on Australian aid, which still provides
close to 40% of government revenue. However, this ratio has fallen from
nearly 60% in the early 1970s, and the Government expects to continue to
reduce its reliance on the Australian grants.  It will do this in part by
raising additional domestic revenue but, in addition, it will continue its
efforts to diversify the sources of foreign financial assistance, although
none of this assistance will be on terms as beneficial as the unconditional
Australian grant to the budget. Recent sources of assistance have included
New Zealand and Japan, as well as the World Bank and the Asian Development
Bank. The Government insists that all projects proposed for foreign aid be
accepted in the National Public Expenditures Plan, thereby ensuring that they
will accord with Government priorities.



- 6 -
16.       Capital expenditures have grown faster than current expenditures
in the last two years, but the estimated share of capital expenditures in
the 1980 budget is still only 14%. In order to increase investment and at
the same time raise the level of self-reliance, the Government realizes that
it must contain the growth of current expenditures, over 40% of which go
toward paying salaries and wages. The Government is attempting to limit the
growth of wages and of the public service while finding less expensive
sources for expatriate recruitment.
External Sector
17.       PNG experienced huge trade deficits prior to the introduction of
copper exports in FY73. The current account deficit was around one fourth
of GDP in the early 1970s. Imports were over 50% of GDP, whereas exports
were only about one third as high. Since FY73, however, earnings from
copper exports have dwarfed those from other commodities, and, except for
small deficits in FY75/76 when copper and copra prices fell, the balance on
current account, which includes the large Australian grant remained
positive despite large service payments. Because of the favorable balance
of payments situation in recent years, PNG's foreign exchange reserves, are
now equivalent to about seven months of imports, down from the ten months
worth in mid-1979. The dependence of the balance of payments on four main
commodities and its consequent vulnerability to fluctuations in
international prices make this a reasonable level for reserves in good
years, particularly since it is in part the counterpart to the stabilization
funds for the four major exports.
18.       The country is likely to require a net capital inflow of around
US$70 million p.a. during the next few years. About one-third of this
amount will be in the form of private debt and direct investment, while the
rest represents public borrowing, of which roughly one-half is likely to
come from bilateral sources and one-half from international organizations.
These funds are in addition to the large Australian grant, equal to US$260
million in 1980, and will have to grow in relative importance over time as
the grant falls in real terms. Total external public debt outstanding as of
December 31, 1979, amounted to US$472 million, of which US$135 million was
owed to the Bank Group. Public debt service payments in 1979 were about 4%
of exports; they are expected to rise to nearly 8% in the next few years and
then to decline slowly. Debt payments to the Bank Group are only about 13%
of total debt service payments. The debt service ratio, including net
investment income payments (which are largely self-financing), is about 15%
of exports and will rise to a peak of 19% in 1981.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
19.       As of October 31, 1980, Bank Group assistance to Papua New Guinea
consisted of seven loans, eight development credits, and one loan/credit,
totalling US$169.2 million. The first operation was a telecommunications



loan of US$7.0 million approved in 1968; the most recent, a US$30.0 million
highway loan/credit (US$17.0 million IBRD, US$13.0 million IDA) approved in
May 1980. In the early years of lending, emphasis was on infrastructure and
six of the seven loans and three of the eight credits were for power,
telecommunications, ports and highway projects. Project implementation has
been satisfactory even with the more complicated rural development projects.
The rapid turnover of expatriate staff and the transitional problems of
recruiting and training their replacements have led to delays in project
monitoring and auditing but physical implementation has progressed
approximately on schedule. As of October 31, 1980, 5 credits and 5 loans
were fully disbursed and the effective loans and credits to Papua New Guinea
held by the Bank and IDA amounted to US$59.3 million. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as well as notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
20.       In more recent years, Bank Group lending has shifted to the
agriculture and social sectors. Three of the seven outstanding loans and
credits and five of the next six planned operations are in agriculture,
rural development, and education. Furthermore, in view of the Government-s
decentralization policy and the fact that the greatest constraints to
development efforts are at the provincial level, it is proposed that the
thrust of Bank Group lending be directed towards a provincial orientation
with the additional explicit objectives of institution-building and human
resource development at the provincial level.
21.       Past Bank Group operations have averaged about one per year and
this is expected to increase to two operations per year from FY81 onward.
This level of activity will allow continuous emphasis on agriculture, rural
development, and education and further support of infrastructure development
in selected areas, especially rural transportation. For FY81, this project
together with a proposed agricultural credit project will be presented to
the Board. For FY82, the current plan is to present a rural development
project and a rural transport project. The Transport Sector Review dated
January 29, 1980 (Report No. 2819a-PNG) and the forthcoming review of
agricultural services will provide direction for operations in these areas.
Project design and implementation will continue to be constrained by the
unavailability of technical staff, local and expatriate, and the decentrali-
zation of power to provincial government levels will probably exacerbate the
problem. These risks will be mitigated, to the extent possible, by explicit
institution building elements such as those contained in this project, but
the process is of recessity a long-term one that will require a sustained
effort and the acceptance of more uncertainty than would be the case with
the type of projects that were initially supported by the Bank Group in PNG.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
22.       The Education System.  Papua New Guinea has built a complete
education system within a short period - its first senior high school was



- 8 -
opened only about 20 years ago. The system has serious constraints which
can be traced to inadequacies in primary education. Any expansion of the
upper education levels should be preceded by quality improvements in and
expansion of primary education.
23.       Bank Participation.  The Bank has been involved in one previous
education project (Credit 661-PNG, 1977), which is primarily concerned with
satisfying immediate manpower needs. This project assists in training
agricultural extension workers, health inspectors, primary and secondary-
level teachers and middle-level industrial technicians. Project implemen-
tation is generally progressing well, but difficulties associated with
reaching enrollment targets for females indicate a socio-cultural constraint,
which should be taken into account in future project design. All project-
financed facilities are operational and the project is expected to be
completed on time in June 1981.
Issues in Primary Education
24.       Significant progress was made prior to 1970 in expanding primary
education in PNG, but the primary enrollment ratio stagnated in the 1970s
and serious quality problems developed. Concerted efforts are needed to
improve access and quality in the 1980s. Problems in the subsector fall
into four broad categories, namely management deficiency, quality decline,
enrollment stagnation and financial constraints.
25.       Management.  The Organic Law which, controls PNG's decentraliza-
tion policy, became effective in 1979. In the education system the National
Government retains exclusive control over tertiary education and school
inspectorates at all levels. Control over upper secondary and primary
school curricula is shared between the central and provincial governments;
planning and management of primary and lower secondary education rests pri-
marily with the provinces. The Organic Law delegated much of the decision-
making power to the 20 provinces, but the manpower to exercise this autho-
rity is not available. Definition of responsibility is also often lacking,
particularly in the areas of shared control. An example is the development
and production of teaching materials and textbooks in social sciences. This
activity is a provincial responsibility, but the "critical mass" of a text-
book program requires a major national involvement. Anomalies also exist in
the present staffing structure where administration and supervision are sep-
arated organizationally rather than placed under a single authority. A
coordinated program is needed to resolve issues arising from the decentrali-
zation process. Such a program should include: (a) technical assistance for
the preparation of provincial plans and definition of responsibilities; and
(b) intensive training of local staff to assume managerial responsibilities.
26.       Quality.  Education standards are low and have been falling during
the 1970s. Lack of qualified teachers and instructional materials were
major causes of this decline. Concentrated efforts, particularly in teacher
training and provision of textbooks, are needed to reverse the trend.
Systematic, objective primary school achievement measurements to identify



- 9 -
and quantify decline in primary education standards over time are not
available in PNG, but results of grade six examinations at the end of the
primary education cycle showed that in 1977 the typical child could
correctly answer less than half of the examination items in the vital
subjects of arithmetic and English. The 1977 study also indicates that
scores in rural areas are significantly lower than in urban areas. There is
statistical evidence of a downward trend in achievement scores for the lower
secondary grades where a persistent 25% decline over a decade is indicative
of quality problems at the primary level.
27.       The decline in primary education standards during the 1970s
resulted from several factors: (a) during the middle of the decade
expatriate managers and teachers were replaced by local staff, half of whom
had (in 1979) a level of schooling of less than grade 10; (b) an annual
10% erosion of funds available for pupils to purchase te. books and teaching
materials; and (c) required teaching methods were frequer.sly beyond the
capability of the newly appointed staff. As a consequence of the low
quality at the primary level, output and quality suffered at upper levels.
28.        In terms of numbers, no shortages of primary teachers are expected
in the 1980s, but the Government recognizes that there are qualitative
shortcomings in teacher training, curricula, and materials. An initial
constructive step towards making better use of well-qualified teacher
trainers was taken in 1979 by consolidating all in-service teacher training,
including six-month and shorter courses for headmasters at a former
pre-service teacher training college in Port H4oresby (POMITC). However, the
institution is handicapped by lack of facilities, equipment and staff.
29.        The Curriculum Development Center (CDC) of the Ministry of
Education has also received special attention in recent years. The number
of professional staff has been expanded from 10 in 1974 to 25 in 1979, and
the organizational structure has been altered to place the entire unit under
a single administration. However, much remains to be accomplished in the
CDC which is now scattered in three locations around Port lMoresby. Of
particular importance are: (a) coordinating curriculum and materials
development with teacher training through staff and facilities sharing;
(b) developing curricula more relevant to village life; and (c) expanding
the availability of printed and other simple teaching aids to pupils and
teachers.
30.       Language is closely associated with quality standards.  English is
the official language of instruction in the absence of a viable alternative.
English is spoken, however, in less than 3% of the homes, the remainder use
one of the estimated 700 local vernaculars. Pidgin and, to a lesser extent,
Hiri 14otu are widely used as lingua franca. When possible, teachers of
children in the lower primary grades use local vernacular as the language of
instruction although they receive no particular training in bridging
language communication gaps which often exist between teachers and pupils.
The language problem is likely to remain a long term issue.



- 10 -
31.       Enrollment Stagnation.  During the immediate post-war period,
enrollment grew rapidly and reached 208,400 in 1970, or about 55% of the age
group. The enrollment has remained at about this ratio over the last
decade. The overall enrollment ratio was 58% in 1979, but five provinces
(all in the Highlands) remained at less than 50% while most of the New
Guinea off-shore island provinces were above 80%. During the 1970s,
enrollment increased only moderately to 277,500 in 1979 and enrollment
ratios of the 1970s remained constant, both for grade 1 and for grades 1-6.
In 1978, the Government announced its target of achieving universal (95%)
enrollment in grades 1-6 by the end of this century. Little can be done to
achieve this target until the following causes of enrollment stagnation
have been removed:
(a) Educational - Children react to low quality with poor attendance
leading to dropout.
(b) Social and Economic. In the late 1960s, the number of primary
school graduates grew rapidly and children, parents and community
leaders began to observe that grade 6 completion did not
necessarily lead to employment or entry into the monetized economy.
Also, since places in grade 7 are limited to only about one-third
of those who finish grade 6, the temptation to drop out became
great for those students who knew they were behind their peers in
their studies. Enrollment of girls lagged behind that of boys at
a rate of about 2:3 because parents need girls at home to care for
younger children and other tasks. Miany parents in the rural areas
of the highland provinces do not wish their daughters to be
educated because of perceived negative effects on matrimonial
eligibility of educated girls.  Lack of communications between
parents and school is also a factor.
(c) Geographical - About 20% of the primary school-age population
resides too far from an existing school to enroll or attend.
Dropout in rural areas is also high.
32.       Enrollment stagnation means that over 40% of primary school-age
children (203,000) are not receiving basic education. These children may be
divided into two categories: (a) those who live near an existing school and
are not enrolled; and (b) those who live beyond a reasonable travel distance
or time to an existing school. Full enrollment of children who live within
commuting distance of existing schools could hypothetically raise the
enrollment ratio from the current 58% to 82%. High priority should there-
fore be given to addressing the causes of nonenrollment and dropout.
33.       A twofold approach is needed to raise enrollment ratios above the
present 55-60% plateau towards the Government's 95% target by the end of the
century (and an interim 68% target by 1987). A partial solution can be
provided through existing schools by: (a) improved teaching methods and
parental guidance; and (b) concentration on special programs to identify and
enroll children, especially girls, living within comnmuting distance of the



- 11 -
school area. With the addition of about 2,000 new classrooms and teachers,
existing school locations could accommodate over 100,000 children living
within easy travel distance, and reach an enrollment ratio of about 80%.
New schools would be required for the remaining 20% of the children who
reside too far from any existing school. School maps and related data
should be prepared and plans developed to determine the need for expansion
and establishment of new schools.
34.       Financial Constraints.  The Government has for the past decade
been faced with a continued shortage of domestic revenue which is typically
only about 60% of expenditures. The Government, therefore, has limited the
annual growth rate of public expenditure to 3% p.a. in most sectors, but as
a priority sector, primary education will be allowed a growth rate of 5%.
At the provincial level there are also financial constraints and provincial
governments are cautious in introducing items likely to remain a long-term
financial liability, such as new teaching posts.
35.       Unit costs of all levels of education, especially post-primary, are
above world and Asian median. Two factors in PNG account for this differ-
ence: low teacher/pupil ratio (1:31) and high primary teacher salaries./l
Additional causes of the especially high unit costs at post-primary levels
include: (a) use of expensive expatriate teachers (slightly under 30%);
(b) continuation of residential programs at nearly all upper secondary
schools; and (c) low tuition and boarding fees paid by students or parents.
36.       The high cost of education must be taken into account when assess-
ing the Government-s ability to achieve its targets in primary education.
A budget simulation exercise reveals that the nation would be able to
provide primary education for about 95% of its primary school-age population
by the year 2000 without significantly raising the recurrent costs share of
education from the present 16.4% of government revenue. The simulation is
based on Government plans to: (a) increase the primary pupil/teacher ratio
from current 31:1 to 35:1; and (b) introducing economies at the upper
secondary and higher levels through localization of staff, reduced boarding,
and charging of higher tuition fees.
37.       Government Plans.  The National Public Expenditures Plan (NPEP) is
the National Government s chief instrument to direct incremental budgetary
support to priority sectors and to underprivileged provinces. Under the
NPEP sectoral program in primary education, the provinces submit to the
National Government their proposals for subprojects to improve quality of and
access to primary education. Evaluation of the provincial proposals by the
National Government has been difficult because provincial strategies and
targets have not been specified. The primary education sectoral programs
/1 Primary teacher salary in PNG is about eleven times higher than GNP/
capita. Comparable median for developing countries is at four times
GNP/capita.



- 12 -
are expected to play an important role in future years and to become the
principal instrument in reaching the Government's target of full enrollment
by the end of this century. In view of the growing importance of the
sectoral programs, the need for preparing plans and strategies in the sector
is becoming increasingly important.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.        The proposed project was prepared by the Government with Unesco
assistance in September 1979; preappraised in November/December 1979; and
appraised in July 1980. Negotiations were held in Washington from
November 6 to November 7, 1980, with the PNG delegation led by Mr. Eliakim
Bobolton, First Assistant Secretary. A staff appraisal report dated
November 18, 1980 (No. 3027(b)-PNG) is being circulated separately.
Supplementary project data are provided in Section III of Annex III.
Objectives
39.        The proposed project would help strengthen management of
educational resources, improve the quality of primary education and increase
enrollment by supporting government efforts to extend access to primary
education in the provinces and to expand existing schools. It would assist
in training educational administrators, planners and teachers to: (a) make
better use of human resources; (b) help implement the Government's
decentralization policy; (c) accelerate the introduction of indigenous
staff; and (d) retard the growth of recurrent costs. The project would seek
to reduce dropout rate, from the current 30% to 25%; raise pupil learning
achievements from a score of 40-50% to about 60%; and improve teaching
efficiency through a multifaceted attack on low quality in primary
education. The project would also support the Government's efforts to
extend educational opportunities to hitherto underserved areas through the
setting up of a financial program, called the Provincial Primary Education
Fund. The Provincial Fund would finance a series of small projects to be
developed during implementation and designed to address expansion
constraints and quality issues in primary education.
Project Description
40.        Administration (Proposed outlay US$1.1 million, excluding contin-
gencies). The project would: (a) strengthen local planning and adminis-
trative capacity by financing local and overseas in-service training programs
for PNG's educational administrators and planners; and (b) help prepare
provincial education plans. Overseas training would be provided in two
ways: (a) Study tours of 10 weeks duration for 20 provincial superintendents
and about 10 selected staff from the National Department of Education (NDOE)



- 13 -
coupled with six to eight weeks of predeparture and poststudy tour seminars;
and (b) Fellowships in educational planning would be arranged for NDOE staff
and provincial superintendents. To supplement the training, the project
would finance the services of educational planners to assist the provinces in
preparing provincial medium-range educational plans.
41.        Curriculum, Textbooks and Evaluation (Proposed outlay US$5.4 mil-
lion, excluding contingencies). A central objective of the proposed project
is to improve primary teaching materials. The curriculum, textbooks
and examination components of the proposed project would play a major role
in this respect. The curriculum and textbook program would develop
institutional capacity for maintaining a continuous supply of improved
textbooks suitable for PNG's primary education system relevant to PNG and
facilities for trial printing of texts. Fellowships and specialist services
would be provided.
42.        CDC would expand and improve its development of simple audiovisual
aids such as wall charts and maps to complement improved textbooks. Staff
would be trained to instruct teachers in the use of diversified media.
Fellowships and specialist services would be provided.
43.        The examination test and measurement component would improve the
present weak examination programs, promote greater use of measurements in
diagnosis of learning and teaching problems and produce meaningful test
results for student placement. During negotiations, the Government provided
assurances that it would gather, on a sample basis, test results from grades
4-6 and submit for Bank Group review: (a) baseline data by December 31,
1982; and (b) annual evaluation of data on the impact of textbooks and
curricula during 1984-87 (Section 3.06 of the Development Credit Agreement).
44.       Teacher Training.  (Proposed outlay US$2.3 million, excluding con-
tingencies.) This project component would convert, improve and expand the
physical facilities of POMITC and train teaching staff in the use of media.
The renovated POMITC facilities would complement the new, contiguous CDC
facilities.
45.       The proposed project would assist in retarding the growth of
recurrent education costs by increasing the proportion of indigenous teacher
trainers of all PNG's primary education teacher training colleges from the
current 28% to 50% through fellowships and training. The training of teacher
trainers would be a combination of local/overseas and degree/nondegree
training. At least half of the program would be conducted by the University
of Papua New Guinea (UPNG).
46.        Provincial Primary Education Fund (Proposed size of Bank Group
financing US$7.5 million.) The objective of the "Provincial Fund" is to
assist the provinces in improving quality of and access to primary education.
The Provincial Fund would help accommodate more pupils, especially girls, in
existing schools, assist in opening new schools in hitherto underserved



- 14 -
areas and improve educational quality. This objective is similar to that of
the Governiment's sectoral programs in primary education. Therefore, the
proposed project element would finance a share of the NPEP sectoral programs
in pri-mary education during 1983-85 when provincial education plans have
been substantially completed.
47.        The Provincial Fund would finance a variety of items identified as
constraints to enrollment expansion or improved education quality in each
province. These would include incremental recurrent costs for teaching
posts at new or enlarged schools, materials needed to build new schools or
teacher housing; equipment and materials for new or expanded schools; and
experiments/studies to improve quality of and access to education. Over 50%
of the items to be financed by the Provincial Fund are expected to be
incremental operating costs because the provision of finances for new
teaching posts is the greatest constraint to increased access.
48.        A national enrollment ratio target of 68% of the primary age
population has been established for the final year of the project, 1987.
If the estimated population increase is taken into account, an increase of
45% in enrollment, from 277,000 in 1979 to 400,000 in 1987 would be needed
to achieve this target. The proposed project would develop provincial
education plans for the years 1983-87, including detailed strategies and
means needed to achieve the enrollment targets. The National Government
would assist the provinces in formulating their plans before the Provincial
Fund becomes operational in 1983. During negotiations the Government agreed
to submit for Bank Group review by December 31, 1982, its consolidated plan
for enrollment expansion by province or groups of provinces during 1983-87
(Section 3.07 of the Development Credit Agreement).
49.        Project Evaluation and Management (Proposed outlay US$1.8 million).
The Government is in the process of establishing a unit for systematic
evaluation of the project. This unit would become the core of a permanent
management information system within the NDOE. Specialist services and
fellowships would be provided to staff the unit. A national advisory
committee on evaluation would be established to provide policy guidelines
and set priorities in evaluation activities. Project management would also
be strengthened with specialist services.
50.        Other Components (Proposed outlay US$0.8 million, excluding
contingencies). The project would include US$600,000 for staff houses for
project specialists. The proposed project would also provide US$200,000 for
preparation of future education projects including a study of problems in
secondary education. During negotiations the Government agreed to complete
this study by December 31, 1983 (Section 3.08 of the Development Credit
Agreement).
Management and Implementation
51.        The project would be implemented by existing line agencies at
national and provincial levels and coordinated by staff in the National



- 15 -
Department of Education (NDOE). At the national level, overall respon-
sibility for coordinated project implementation would rest with a Project
Management Committee (PMC). Committee members would be the Secretaries from
the Departments of Education, Finance, and the National Department of Works
and Supply (NDWS). The PMC would be a policy-implementing and decision-
making body, reporting directly to the National Executive Council. It would
be staffed with five executive officers and be responsible for overall
project coordination.
52.       Then NDOE (together with the National Planning Office (NPO) and
the Department of Finance) would be responsible for ensuring that the
Provincial Fund would be used in accordance with implementation procedures
mutually agreed between the Bank Group and the Government. Appropriate
campus school sketch designs have been prepared by the NDWS. Preparation of
tender documents and supervision for the joint POMITC and CDC campus will be
done by the NDWS and supplemented by engineering design consultants
available in the country. Two man-years of specialist services in low-cost
school construction technology would also be provided.
53.       Provincial Fund Implementation Procedures.  The Provinncial Fund
is defined as the Bank Group financing of the Community (Primary) Education
Sectoral Program of the NPEP. The Provincial Fund would be limited to
financing subprojects in provincial primary education during PNG fiscal
years 1983, 1984 and 1985, the incremental cost of which has been estimated
at US$16.5 million over the 1981 allocation./l Subproject appraisal and
supervision would be the responsibility of the NDOE.  Responsibility for
identification and implementation of provincial subprojects rests with the
provinces. The NPO would monitor overall implementation progress and act as
an arbitrator between national and provincial education authorities in cases
of disagreement over conformity of provincial project proposals with agreed
criteria and policy directives. NDWS would monitor all NPEP capital works
projects through their provincial offices.
54.       The Provincial Education Offices would be responsible for
preparing the medium-range plans for increasing access to primary education.
Technical assistance would be provided by the National Government to assist
the provinces in preparing their own plans. Annual NPEP subproject
proposals, prepared by the same parties, would dovetail with the provincial
plans. There would be about 60 provincial Bank Group-financed subprojects
during the 1983-85 period. During negotiations the Government provided
assurances that: it would send for Bank Group review and comments a
representative subproject from each region (a) prior to the first year of
Provincial fund operations; and (b) in subsequent years (Section 3.10 of the
Development Credit Agreement).
/1 The total amount for sectoral programs in provincial primary education
is estimated at US$30.7 million. The latter figure forms the basis for
disbursement calculations.



- 16 -
55.        Criteria for Use of the Provincial Fund.  During the first year of
NPEP sectoral operations (1980), primary education sectoral projects in the
provinces were identified and implemented in accordance with loosely defined
criteria. Improved project criteria have been prepared and would be followed
in 1983-1985 budget periods when the NPEP sectoral projects would be financed
from the Provincial Fund.  The criteria consist of:  (a) general guidelines
for allocation of funds; and (b) approval criteria of provincial projects.
These criteria would ensure that assistance provided under the Provincial
Fund would direct provincial primary education projects towards their
objectives: improved access to, and quality of, primary education. During
negotiations the Government provided assurances that it would: (a) allocate
sectoral program funds to the provinces in accordance with agreed distri-
bution criteria; and (b) review Provincial Fund-assisted subprojects in
conformity with agreed criteria (Sections 3.09 and 3.10 of the Development
Credit Agreement).
56.       About two thirds of the annual allocation for sectoral programs
in primary education is allocated for provincially administered projects.
All provinces would receive a portion of the provincial allocation, but
interprovincial differentiation is steeply pitched in favor of the dis-
advantaged provinces.  Criteria for determining allocations to each pro-
vince will be based on a recently revised (September 1980) index of pro-
vincial population and primary enrollment ratios.  The NDOE would review and
approve subprojects on the basis of their relevance, feasibility and
efficiency.  Relevance would mean the degree to which a subproject
encourages improvement in primary enrollment.  Subprojects financed by the
Fund would therefore need to: (a) support a component of primary education;
(b) support the provincial education plan to increase access and reduce
dropout of primary school children; or (c) be designed to make a measurable
contribution to increasing methods and means. Feasibility would mean the
ability of a province to undertake and support a project on a continuous
basis.  Topics that would be reviewed include:  (a) suitability of school
location; (b) availability of staff; (c) availability of school facilities
and staff housing; and (d) recurrent cost implications and ability of the
province to sustain these expenditures upon project completion. Efficiency
would include such aspects as the reasonableness of investment and recurrent
costs, and attention to appropriate class and school sizes.
57.        The project would be implemented over a seven-year period.  The
Government has completed the following: (a) preparation of sketch plans,
equipment lists and specifications; (b) plan and schedule for textbook
development and production; (c) start of recruitment of technical
specialists; (d) preparation of final plans for project evaluation; (e)
initial provincial plans and criteria for use of the Provincial Fund; and
(f) final plans for project management. Of special importance in the
initial project phase is the date for preparation of provincial plans for
universal primary education (December 31, 1982), which links the use of the
Provincial Fund in 1983-85 to specific provincial targets. The last project
item would be completed by June 1987.



- 17 -
Cost Estimates
58.       Total project cost is estimated at US$37.7 million.  Project costs
based on unit costs of December 1980 are defined as the sum of: (a) the
costs of identifiable project items (US$16.9 million); (b) the incremental
cost from the start of the proposed project (1981) of NPEP sectoral projects
in provincial primary education during the 1983-85 period (the Provincial
Fund), (US$16.1 million); and (c) the estimated cost of school construction
financed by local communities during the 1983-85 period (US$4.7 million) as
a matching contribution to the Provincial Fund. These costs include the
following contingency allowances: (a) physical contingencies (US$1.1
million) estimated at 7% of the base cost of all project items; and (b)
price contingencies (US$4.3 million) calculated on the December 1980 base
cost plus physical contingencies ir. accordance with price escalation which
is expected to decline from 9% in 1981 to 6% in 1987. T_'hnical assistance
costs including salaries, allowances and international aifares have been
estimated on the basis of recent contracts at US$4,400/man-month. The
foreign exchange component is estimated at about US$18.0 million or 48% of
total project costs. Local customs duties and taxes are estimated at about
US$0.4 million. The proposed loan/credit would finance the equivalent of
the foreign exchange component of the project.
59.       Recurrent costs for primary education would increase during the
project period due to school-age population growth and higher enrollment
ratios. Analysis of the cost increases shows that if government-endorsed
compensating policies are adopted,/l overall education expenditures can be
held near their present level of 5.47% of GNP.
Procurement
60.       The main US$3.0 million civil works contract for US$3.0 million at
POMITC/CDC would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. Civil works and furniture
contracts estimated to cost less than US$300,000 and contracts for goods to
be financed through the Provincial Fund would be awarded on the basis of
government procedures acceptable to the Bank Group. These procedures
include locally advertised bidding and force account. These procedures are
appropriate in view of the large number of geographically dispersed small
contracts that would be financed in this fashion. Equipment, paper and
materials bid packages over US$100,000 equivalent would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines. Domestic manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin
of 15% or the existing customs duty, whichever is the lower, over the
c.i.f. price of competing imports. Equipment and furniture purchases which
cannot be reasonably grouped to form packages in excess of US$100,000
equivalent.
/1 This includes increasing the share of the budget for primary education
from 39% to 56%; reducing boarding and reliance on expatriate teachers;
and charging tuition fees at higher levels of education.



- 18 -
and aggregating less than US$1,300,000 could be made on the basis
of: (a) contract awards following competitive bidding advertised locally; or
(b) from existing government stores contracts. A small printing press
(US$250,000) would be procured, after negotiations from a supplier in PNG
that provides maintenance. Books (total cost estimated at US$300,000) would
be purchased directly from authorized distributors. In addition,
miscellaneous items, not exceeding US$10,000 in each contract and aggregating
less than US$250,000 could be purchased on the basis of a minimum of three
price quotations. Printing of textbooks subject to a maximum of US$250,000
could be done by the government printer.
Disbursements
61.       Disbursements under the proposed project would be made as follows:
(a) 70% of local expenditures on civil works at POMITC/CDC and staff
housing; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment,
furniture, paper, books and materials; 100% of ex-factory costs of locally
manufactured goods; and 70% of local expenditures for goods procured
locally; (c) 100% of technical assistance costs (less housing and
recruitment costs); and (d) sliding scale percentages of local expenditures
incurred in respect of NPEP sectoral programs for provincial primary
education during the following calendar years: 30% in 1983; 25% in 1984;
and 20% in 1985. Disbursement is expected to be completed by December 31,
1987. Disbursements against expenditures incurred for the Provincial Fund
would be made on the basis of a consolidated summary of quarterly statements
of expenditure prepared by each province and audited annually by the
Government. Disbursement against various other small local expenditures,
each less than US$1,000 and aggregating less than US$500,000, could also be
made against statements of expenditures. During negotiations the Government
provided assurances that: (a) project accounts would be maintained in accord
with sound accounting procedures; and (b) national and provincial auditing
procedures acceptable to the Bank Group would be applied annually during
implementation (Section 4.01 of the Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits
62.       The basic justification for the project is two-fold: (a) it would
improve literacy and numeracy (and hence health, nutrition and population
control); and (b) it would foster institution building in the sector. An
ongoing study of girls underenrollment in Papua New Guinea would identify
constraints in this respect and propose remedial strategies to be supported
by the project. As a result of implementing the recommendations of this study
and other project strategies, overall gross enrollment ratios are expected
to increase from 58% to 68% by the end of the project period. About two-
thirds (6%) of this increase would be female. The proposed project would
assist in improving education quality by supplying about 150,000 children
with textbooks and other instructional materials. In-service teacher train-
ing would annually upgrade about 430 poorly qualified teachers and



- 19 -
headmasters. Efficiency of the system would improve through increased class
size (from an average of 31 to 35) and reduction in dropout rate (from 30%
to an estimated 25%).
63.       The proposed project would promote institution building through
administrative staff development and institutional enrichment. Ten national
headquarters staff, 40 provincial educational management staff, 100 inspectors
and over 2,000 headmasters would receive administrative training during the
project period. In-service teacher training and curriculum development would
be consolidated on one campus to encourage continuous interaction between
teachers and curricula developers. The proposed project would support the
Government-s decentralization policy by helping improve institutional capacity
in the provinces. Systematic school mapping would precede the preparation of
provincial education plans with specific enrollment targets and criteria for
preparing project-financed subprojects. These measures would support the
Government-s target of providing universal primary education by the end of
this century.
Risks
64.       The project faces an implementation risk regarding assistance
to the provinces through the Provincial Fund. The sectoral programs which
the Provincial Fund would support have only been in operation for a year,
and evaluation of the provincial proposals for financing a variety of
capital and recurrent costs has proven difficult because provincial
strategies and targets have not been specified. There is a risk that items
selected for funding assistance by the provinces would not be high priority
items in terms of project objectives: namely expansion and improvement of
primary education. To reduce this risk, implementation plans for the years
1982-87, including detailed strategies and means to achieve enrollment
targets, would be prepared. Technical assistance would be provided under
the project to strengthen implementation capacity in this respect.
65.       Selection and release of about 65 individuals for nearly 1,900
man-months of fellowship training will be difficult for two reasons: lack
of candidates and problems of operating government entities during absence
of fellows. The project includes two specific elements to overcome this
risk: (a) the project duration has been extended to seven years to permit
the fellowship program to be extended over a feasible period; and (b)
specialist services have been provided on a large scale as replacements for
fellows.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Loan and Development Credit Agreements between the
Independent State of Papua New Guinea and the Bank and the Association



- 20 -
respectively, the report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the
Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d), of
the Articles of Agreement of the Association, are being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors.
67.        Special conditions of this project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
68.        I am satisfied that the proposed Loan and Credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the Association respectively.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan
and credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By
Moeen A. Qureshi
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
December 1, 1980



-21-                                              ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 5
PAPUA llE  OWIAF                   mrlCet CWoUTS (WRIU 1rD AV aXQS
LAI4 AD    (TNOV86    SQ. E.   - IDSI CENTUTNE)VN
TOTAL            461. 7
IRICULTlAL         19.5                                 MST UtNT              MIDLE IICCIM             haDDLE INCQlIt
1940  /b    1970 h 8UnTE A              AilA   & PACIFIC    LATIN AIMMICA * CARIRDEAN
GM? PEA CAPITA (US)                   140.0        280.0     560.0                  894.8                  1384.1
G! cousumnTa0 tu  CAFl
(AILOGEJS OF COAL EQUIIVALENT)       51.0       138.0      292.0                 842.4                  1055.9
POPL g  AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPMLATIM, KID-TR (MILLIONS)          1.9         2.4        2.9
maB8  PONUATION (P8CUET OF TOTAL) 2.7              9.8      15.5                   39.1                    63.4
POPULATIOU FJECTIOtS
POPULATIO  IS YEAR 2000 (MILLIOIS)                         5.0
STATIONARY POPLATION (MILLIONS)                            9.0
YER STATIONRY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2120
POPULATION IDESITT
PU  SQ. 151.                        4.0         5.0        6.0                  376.1                    28.1
PR SQ. DI. ARICULTURAL LAIND       98.0       124.0      149.0                2350.                  .  81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YES.                          39.7        42.0       42.0                   40.4                   41.4
15-64 YES.                          57.4        55.0      .54.8                  56.2                    54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.9         3.0        3.2                    3.4                     3.9
POPULATION GROWTII LATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.7         2.3        2.4/c                  2.4                     2.7
URBAN                              12.6         15.3       8.5                    4.1                     4.1
CRUDE BLRTN RATE (PER THOUSAND)      44.0         42.0      41.0                   28.7                    34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      23.0         18.0      16.0                    7.9                     8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..          2.9       3.0                    1.9                     2.5
FAMILY PLAINING
ACCEPTORS, A9NUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..           ..
USERS (P8CENT OF HARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..       3.0                   39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          100.0       100.0      105.0                  116.9                   106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    76.0)       83.0       85.0                  108.9                   107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           40.0        46.0       46.0                  60.3                    65.6
OF WHICH ANIKAL AND PULSE        22.0        20.0       20.0                   18.8                    33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      32.0         24.0      19.0                    5.3                     8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    41.0         46.0       50.0                   63.0                    63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..        106.0        ..                   52.8                    66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..      20.0                   42.4                    65.9
URBAN                                ..           ..      30.0                   62.1                    80.4
RURAL                                ..           ..      19.0                   29.7                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         14.0      18.0                   52.8                    62.3
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                   71.1                    79.4
RURAL                                ..          5.0       5.0                   42.4                    29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          14390.O0d   11630.0   11797.0                  4120.1                  1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      2450.0/d    2370.0    1934.0                  2213.6                  1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             170.0jd      150.0/e   218.0                  819.4                   480.3
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..        ..                   28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..           ..       5.0
URBAN
RURAL
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                . .
URBAN
RURAL                                ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN
RURAL                                 ..



- 22 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
PAPUA NEW GUINEA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAPUA NEW GUINEA                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV GS
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  fb    1970 fb ESTIMATE fb          ASIA 5 PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  32.0        52.0       60.0                   98.6                      99.7
MALE                  59.0         63.0      70.0                    99.2                    101.0
FEMALE                 7.0         39.0      49.0                    97.7                     99.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   1.0         8.0       12.0                    55.5                     34.4
MALE                   2.0         11.0       16.0                   60.7                     33.5
FEMALE                 0.5          4.0        7.0                   49.9                     34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)  16.0           19.0      22.0                    13.7                     38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRI1IARY                            35.0        33.0       31.0                   34.6                      30.5
SECONDARY                           18.0        23.0       23.0                   28.5                      14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         29.4         32.0      32.0                    85.8                     76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.0          7.0       6.4                    9.0                      43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..        ,.                  118.9                     245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..        ..                   39.4                      84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     *-           *-       7.0                      *-                     63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            1.0        ..                     4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1052.0       1255.0    1466.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    41.4        41.3       41.1                   36.8                      22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               89.0        86.0       82.0                   51.9                      37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   4.3         5.8        7.0                   21.9                      23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 54.8        52.1       50.9                    39.1                     31.5
MALE                                  61.2         58.4      57.6                    48.5                     48.9
FEMALE                                47.7         44.9      43.6                    29.6                     14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.8          0.9       0.9                     1.1                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     400.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     275.0                  192.1                    190.i
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..         ..                      ,.                   474.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..                  182.5                    332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 *.           ..      10.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..      75.0                   33.2.
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of date and is noc uniform.
/b   Unless othervise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   indigenous population grovth rate is 2.32;  /d 1964;  /e 1966.
April. 1980



-- 23-ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS_OF SOCIAL INIIICATORS
rat.:  Alnthogh rihe data are drow   fre  soa-Ze  genralyjodgd the netathantnesadreibe   Sn ahool  also  be n-ed that they nay not be inte-
aetornlte  royorahh   Steana of na trekrE an-dan~dlrddeilnsad        -o_eyn   ose  by dIffen   nrtrrae   In nlenttiog the data.  The data are, ra--
theleat  otafolno ornelhn  ordrs of ngeiltde, indinan   treda, and oh--eeri-e  -remInna    dlff--ene   Senenronr-                     o
Chrr-ftr.s.e.g.rope  e   III th   sw   ear  gtro   of tbe aohj et nosanrty and (21 aIoo-ay fro    inS   --haSe  SIger  -orag   inoos  tSar the n--ty g-rp
ottohsS eon'  e.antry(eep   for "aItal S-rpla  0il fapo-te-" grooprohere `M11IIddeane  Nort  Sllics and Middl  e-- toan   to                           -sr   Senat  of arranger
arelonaleaol silohnls) .In ohe reraegr-op data the a-erges  see 'yAoatSo  slhted anith-etf  nears lee ear  tadianr end sheen  -n1y whew at
leat Slt    s  the roanies Ito  ger F hat data  r-  that iedieetne.  Sln-  the    -erge ef .ra...                  e e, egtheIdnrr  deyr-d: or the   eotlahf1htay of
of on  Irdotor at a tineI_ e         tghn  ...oatry and refere-t  groopa.
AhOO  Alto  (thsasoed aqm)rLoe                                                                                                      on    te       re   yeste   or -ettae-tg  ono-
TorltI    ntl  taFfere area romFinsig load ato and in,1ard asea                                     in  -o  -oo,1f-nd   no nd-a  s---o annort S--    leech.
Ag Eatri-ftime_  of egriolna-e  area a-d teaForanily or pertaetl                         Oahtion Perborixo  F a - FrFo1ot-  di-nded by  -arher of_p-atlofa
lee erepa, poarres, earher at  Snenber gardes rr no lIe  falow; 1970 date  mole cad fenoe gradnote tores, FraftiI oh-oeset,-end atii tart--ara_s
f.r   P--.,  -k-   -d k-h- S.td-    t. Iirsitlo.Fe  Ooahro  te  -  ota. ora97j,    ort                                                - FFoftir  (esel
ONF Ff5 CAFIOA (US11  - 1S     nryt   a  'ee tNarr   ahrpic,el                                       orba, ad toah)dirded ytteirkeapeth                    caber of he,tOta  beds
eahatd by sn    n               -neionrthd as W-r1d OreS Os1rs ~~1197-78 hel)   90,                reiol   sybhir and prinete geea   r   ynerdSsia   e
19)1, ad 1918 dots.                                                                                hahlhltelerne-t-ens           .ifi.isFos are     l etihttots p -rrtrlp  staffed
batlaterPbyslhes    flteIhiit pmee          . ptndtag  Frhetiptly nastadia1
tOINECG  CONSUMFTION Ff0 C     TfI   - A'rs . oaa.        l s I...er..a  .sryt(rot                   rare are -aas Seesihdrd.  lana I hotFilselt  ha_esIr, Oselde heelth ad medical
an_  ant,Ftrem                 ee   a   o   yr-    ohe edtgohrs   ie-                              rsesa   pe--sessy  tsefted hy ophystntee  (bet bye  ceaal et
tnioityf  kehlagra-  of -ral eqoiayern Pee naFita;  19Sf, 1970, ard 1978                           tote       didwfe, err.)  hbteb offee  r-Fel          nenda rsd petide
deto.                                                                                                esdrneo   eha   E-ilitries.  Pre stetittinol  P_P_ee   artas  .:tPi-
'ULAT                                                                                        .. ...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rpiea   ealo    iIl  -   istno,s a_d red_II andmt_ti_nsr..
TorahFoynotis   fon-fea  (wihtors   - h  of hol  1; 1960. 1970, ear  190            Aafthr e.raie   e    Tonl-                  ne  af-   drtf    rsta an d isehargee
d-t.                                                                                             free ho-pitels dietdrd it ynth  so he  of Sods.
Ore r Fb etrr(-rentrof  ota-l                    -           t.tos  aSnn  tern1 Fopahatiro;
dfeetdfff     firon  ofoba            _ra  map af-et  -aperohlifty of dons                  yio-U tIN 
eogonnna;19ff.  1900, oad 1970 deto.                                                        AeaeSite nI  Hls-hrld ietm  ne                   sIho1d)-tte,wir,sdwe-
Frrolatloa Frofeetfots                                      R      II    -   9~D           A h.teose'Itdnsts  of a graaP af  edfnidoels aha share lIfeg I.asters
Panletor  a ysr  000-   emet npe]noo  Frjsnhot oe lsmdan  900            er  the' nrmin  .ri. -         heerderor_lagger nay - nay  -tt be  enaded hr,
ntal 'I   oitlnby eg  a-d  .. end Ie     mralt   er   etility r-tes.                           nhs   . iteahl   o I.  atisia psye.
leg 1sf~ a-saynta-Y at iti-hni- I-ritg sitS  --oan 'a Pee neitaI  .n..w                       Sen of Fermen   Pm  ros  i,, nil onba, endrshreaedrsatas
lee,  n  fmh IifOr esyornasy  -obhilietg as 70.5 year.  The pane-                       golilag9a,  -epenie-ly.   rei -nmrnldrrnprsarttstes
aeea1o   etiliy .rt  Dm  bar  three leech tess ing d-ni-e  Or                          sa--piFd parts.
ferilinyen--d-ag ta i...r. Ie.eIsod Fetfsly plooriag  -ferorare                              ors.n.lF.lnn  lee-n-o  odslfga-ntl.oItm, ead esa
Cant  esasy is  hen  srogad on  of  hesetir  roiiair   frwttt                       arsina    eltg   fh eneonir ity Or Ilirg. '1want-  asP~Xt,
E-h fer..tity i.th-dafo p- ejttid           isooes                                            oftta,oha,en   oaldelia   rae                         eF
aea-   ..n.n-t.  ISis St arhiened wale after lentilit  ern  derllr  to                      AitdE-I.t    ..
the  Irylanme   hee  of rain ne   -Frd-tnill rate,  h-m   -ho g.e.. lr                        dete-tnoir-   eno
wrmrnrrplooes  tself rosen  Ib           a  sire art                Fimamy sf0001 - renal, sale end fe erhstttl,ml   r   e
of                           ly~~-1  . .  sl, h ,tarlor.eny pOrF"ist      I                Ierlilmer   of all oger an the orz!imar_lneta Fe sgr  of reapertine
-sti-tnd no the Seal irf the projensed-ntrnritn  si neprsain                                     priwas1y  oithrol-ege papohenha; arrealy ir,lwdes nthldr- aged 6-11
t. the year 2000, sad the rate of delif-  wf fFrthiiy rats no replet-                            yasSa   dosr   o  diflena   lash    frlarewsin
mean henrI.                                                                           nror~h y.f~h.    .i-     ppati  t_ Im   iS  riere  edansttr  e fflset way erreed10 perea
.nee has.Seer-o--ehrd
Frpoherint Ilersiny                                          neewndernseSorl-twtwl.aeieeodFeaale-Crmpatsd  as abort; sanosgeer~~~~~~~~~~~
Fin as fn.    tfd-eeoFaFlaiosyensqaneinfontee010  hntata   ofedsasorrqsiett lastferIyarsof-ypoo..pimay i.t...r.
asoll  ef 1l to 17 years of Age;rns          _odar  ore  era grely
Fer Os. Am. egrnolnaral hard  -Coeponed as abtn-  for           1rnntra -ed                -anlded.
orly.                                                                                frneriotrherrrtlwest (re...recar of- seokiradary) - iTfooselt.rel- l-stirstisass
FoFoisntr Age Onrrnore (rrneor)  -  hOdres  0-lA  yeas), rentig-age R O-           irriod    s-oatraI, irdatrfe1, -r other p-ogsr  wI S ohpert I             adepe-
64 years, and reIred  165years sd          Pie)a   ere  ae   fsd-ya-  Fp,,p.             den>at      a  depaFtmeatm  rf  -enodardnrtwfo
aiw;1900, 1900, ead 1900 dora.                                                              Foa--ahrnrw-elty   r   eodr       oa   ndeosere-lled I
PrnsltlooOrreh goe lorreo) -  ots    A- ..Ise  growth rates of tar1 rid-                 prIr   e   eodr   eesdcddh   obr  of t...ro hrt CIteh
year Fepoitirns foehOOF-SI, 165-00, to  1970-70.                                        nrrtp     -sg   ed..
Peshatws rowit  ats(peera) -rba-Ar..waI gronrth rates of  rber  .P,p-                  Adalt lIne-ieeferr)-Laraeaat   al    wsdawtte
CrodsNorthnate  ree tossatf  - Anoal Ire-  bi-hSs Per thosod of mid-yearp .O..ftt.     .tp...i                                                    5    - .d-
ypnplatioe; 1960, 1970, ard h978 date.                                                      COflSDMThfO Nf
Cs_do Death Rae  pe ro         -d) - Aos... Idr-he per the...s.d rf nid-y...                     Fasse   os(e   boedpoltr)-PsegrrF   opri-e mos
prysJ.istl;  1560, 1900, aed 1908don..                                                            ~.                                                                     -.          .
her na-ma  rep-edootl   period if she  artaepDeeteg-Fnfn  7liey   eils
..... t  a"awiwlerirr  (errhaasd-onlt-r)-All  ye   frnieefrrd
tittfy  rears; ....lly f fre-pra    onraet diag ir, 1960, 1970,.ad 1970.                         iodan    ognrlpbl   e   iwsn    flptyplarff-sneode dca l-
rf blst-eortrl deries ande  anspins of rriorel  amIlytleorio ..iFdFa.              -a  Is eff-o; ds.. foe  -e-et year    y not hr noparabl. sIsne most
owne  of- ild -beaIo   000  15-5    yer)woeshehnorlgne   o                                     I   sron   rFtosr  sorln        VFrtrsfrSsdnes  to
ahi marrid wares  r tens af  OFO5P.                                    eneral pit  per tha....nd pepnlieni; e-niades soles                 TV esf issn
fOOl AND1 NUTRITIOfN                                                                                  inrronnie  ead in ye-ar  ohm. rgirt-ti- of TV mets   a ~is eflt.
lodn  f oodFrdonio er  apta 199-i=lf)-  rde  o  pr  epis   rrel         errser-irslntn lesrhesed rrhatth                       -Shws..easrag   eeria
prodantion                              ~~~~~~--t.   ..~d  d   .      f.    .d        lina-l- de...ted prIrFily to  --oodisg geres1 saws   ft is  osdrs
is or  eleode  year  eals.C          ......ir  nra  P"'ser  g'oods (.g   sagana-re.      no be"daily" if itapoe-rsIt least fre  ntmes aIes
tes are-   -1.ided) .Agg-egan  podonti-r of eonS hnoosty ft beardEnoLoren A rddnrnt   er   rldradtsIr   odSsi   ira
retirra.f  -r-rag   ynrdn-r prOn  ara.ghts; 0961-65. 1900, asd 1900 data..                        .      bl .-
Far noio sepi ofrairie  lornet r  reoinmers I- Crmpsted frotr  rbi  ois
eregy   qsioies o  se  lod   sppirsecolo .e.t.rtrny Pm   -spito            LAO        OC
Per day.  AVoilsSie  -ppli-s Oerpsiasdtasi  pf.dnti-rw, -rp-rts let                          Tnlh-FerIirtrs        enonlyerOspnra   nldr
soon,ad rhange          ten.Net sappli-e  eslade atnal find, -cedI,                      erdfee    n   amhydStonaighaeie,soet,en
q.. tislet ward In fond P-r-oing, org losse  is dimtribstiwn.  Seqotre-                         fsinltios  So ree o-  Ierener  e-s  -oparbir; 1960, 1900 add
_rtnI wer  _snortted by PAC Sbe   or. d    pitysiohooal needs Per --m1 errs-                   170   se
yity asd heolnih  -woideriog  eorne lterperorate, hody weights  1g9 Fral   etent - Fres1o  ohor Isome or p-retsage  sO  otol laitre  fre.
SwearSold Iloneh; 1961-65, 1970, ard 1907 data.
Fm nette typly   et         -fishla  Is p--eng    fino   se   re;  90   91ad1978 dsta.
ofpesi be s                       do)       Fr-fronnno  penoho                      oristyIter)-Lao    ine   In eh -irf  rratotrr    masfoars
ne   sF I'o  ferd per dry.  hnt saPply of food Is def ined am ohms.  OR-                  anLhnrnn,wtredg    spr lg    frrllbor ferns; 1900,.-t-t  
-oPe protean, ority,b 50 nears.shoo-d-be arir,,tprotein.Ife-e sto0d
Aerid  Fond  Sonry; 1961-Oh   Elf sod 190   de,  tda. 9.         f-.l-               19Sf,.. 1978.ogIosdn.             hesraIlspnrpsiretstfntm
roed  fer          hoiras en   pies- So   .I grar   ye  day; 19t61-5   Th9 ..e. 197   aa.      nne   pef_rnniol  wre
.rd-  It.  1-1  th-  Ih...   f  75  g-   ~    ~          ~           loonfat.tey1sdp-t.asto-rat23ofgFoDlennrf  rder 05ard -65                         tid-are
Chid l( p-et 1-)   -nnln tet --yen. thosa1d)     Antepl _dreby     perI thoosheod So":
WrI 1dor  donnd   Iron life65 nobes  095 1920 andi97  dne                                       19C60fDIIT 70ITIO   95Sh-                    IO.    -ii.t.               ..    .f.t.
,PITO   .-P,t-P                                                            I         -           Feortag o  Pisn  -      tron  (ht       ahad 1 iad) t- teosneed by r.inies
sn barIth;100 1-91 or.  1901 dor.bl;16,17                      97dI.ICM                                    ITI    O
of ogo pmrtho....rd line Soeths.                                                               OsiaodAaioetersro-ra1s,wa   -
lechr olmerl   totl, elar,ard   oralf .f. nr.o.       hr..    es.O  al                   otninionollynIdrqo-  dirt yles r-stini ran-food neqsi-r r  I   o
rater soyply   let lodno  teaned  serf er retain  or otreaned Sen  rnrnoamlnar d  wffoFdahlf
-rsoorbri      nrnoodIsp_          sod       h thcesf   rnehr   Ptcleshl                         alatdFrhne nolorAhnoete fner_                       io  ro   ferrert) - enha
- Onobor nO   elle   intel,erhar, oarlaroll,odrr-,'0f-eanrnn
on p          ,,-dnsore   hi  enno tlor  eonlttrd. -orn  don-i~                                                             fermredheSSlreltae
en I:ne..snno.mnt..aodron..netnnhtaormrbn      ..   .......E~..~~-   Spril, D-                                                                     i80 i
rn-tn  -d onjim I...rL.'ti-e  d`-        _'AI .-



-24 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - PAPUA NEW GUINEA
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1978 /a                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
(at current prices)
FY68-73      FY73-1978       1978
US$                 (T, FY69)   (%, FY73)    (%, FY73)
Million        %      --------(Constant prices) --------
GNP at Market Prices       1,853.6      100.0         7.8/b        0.2/b        6.4/b
Gross Domestic
Investment                 355.5       19.2        10.7          2.2         -5.1
Gross National Saving        365.0       19.7
Current Account Balance        9.5        0.5
Exports of Goods, NFS        838.2       45.2        24.6          1.5         13.5
Imports of Goods, NFS        886.3       47.8        10.9          3.7          1.7
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1972
Value Added /c         Labor Force           V.A. Per Worker
US$ Million                000            US$    % of National
Average
Agriculture            258.7        40.1       158    48.8      1,637         82.2
Industry              189.7        29.4        43    13.3       4,411        221.4
Services               197.1        30.5      123    37.9       1,602         80.4
Total/Average          645.5       100.0      324   100.0       1,992        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(K Million)                    X of GDP
1979 7a              1978            FY75-77
Current Domestic Receipts                 264.3                20.8              19.3
Current Expenditures                      430.8                29.8              32.3
Current Deficit                           166.5                 9.0              13.0
Capital Expenditures                       63.0                 4.2               4.1
External Assistance (net)                 175.0                12.9              14.1
/a  Preliminary.  As of January 1, 1978, PNG changed its fiscal year from July 1
- June 30 to January 1 - December 31.  Here, FY   refers to the July 1 -
June 30 period, whereas 197_ refers to the calendar year.
/b  GDP.
/c  At factor cost.
not applicable
not available
October 1980



- 25 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - PAPUA NEW GUINEA
June     June
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                       1976      1977      1978      1979      1979      1980
(Million K outstanding at end of period)-
Money and Quasi Money                         277.8    428.5    449.0    571.7        506.6    577.5
Bank Credit to Public Sector, net              18.0       3.3      13.5     35.0       63.9      34.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector, net            111.7    136.7    193.8    227.5        213.0    275.1
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP              22.2      29.5      31.4
Consumer Price Index (1977 - 100)              95.8    100.0    105.8    111.9        109.5    123.2
Annual Percentage Changes in:
Consumer Price Index                          8.6       4.4       5.8      5.8        5.2      12.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector                 0.4      22.4     41.8      17.4       26.0      29.2
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                      MERCHANDISE EXPOPT' (AVERAGE 1977-1979)
1977   1978   1979 /a                                   US$
(US$ Million)                                       Million    %
Exports of Goods              674.4  751.7   985.4       Coffee                        169.4    19.9
Imports of Goods              557.4  669.3   763.0       Cocoa                          94.5    11.1
Resource Gap (Deficit = -)  117.0   82.4   222.4         Copra & Copra Products         59.2      7.0
Services (net)               -197.9 -239.1  -306.7       Timber & Timber Products       38.8      4.6
Transfers (net)               186.7  166.2   157.9       Copper Concentrates           187.8    22.1
Balance on Current Account  105.8    9.5    73.6         Gold                          157.5    18.5
All Other Commodities         143.1    16.8
Private Capital (net)          39.7  -28.3    15.7
Public MLT Loans (net)         25.7   -7.8    37.5       Total                         850.3   100.0
Errors and Omissions /b       -32.4   24.1   -17.4
Increase in Reserves          138.8   -2.5   109.4       EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1979
US$
Million
FUEL AND RELATED MATERIALS
FY74   FY76   1978       Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed         477.9
(US$ million)          Nonguaranteed Private Debt
Imports                        28.9   60.0   84.6/c    Total Outstanding & Disbursed           477.9
Exports                          ..    0.1
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979 /d
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                  Z
1977                             1978-1979               Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed           4.3
Nonguaranteed Private Debt
US$1.00   K 0.79                 US$1.00 = K 0.71
K 1.00 = US$1.26                 K 1.00 = US$1.41        Total Outstanding & Disbursed           4.3
1980, June             IBRD/IDA LENDING (AS OF 12/31/79)
US$1.00 = K 0.67                                         US$ Million
K 1.00 - US$1.50                                         IBRD   IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed          54.7  42.6
Undisbursed                      10.0  27.2
Outstanding incl. UJndisbursed  64.7  69.8
/a Preliminary.
7Th Including capital n.e.i.
7Th Estimate.
7g Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and nonfactor services.
.. not available
October 1980



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PNG
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of October 31, 1980)
Loan or
Credit                                                 Amounts (US$ millions)
Number      Year      Borrower      Purpose          Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Five credits and five loans fully disbursed            55.5    25.2        -
1333-PNG    1976        PNG         Agriculture       12.0                 7.9
661-PNG    1976        PNG         Education                   4.0        1.1
677-PNG    1977        PNG         Roads                      19.0        4.0
1551-PNG    1978        PNG         Ports II            3.5                0.9
841-PNG    1978        PNG         Rural Development          20.0       15.4
1856-PNG/a  1980        PNG         Third Highways   17.0                 17.0
1030-PNGTa  1980        PNG         Third Highways             13.0       13.0
Total                                     88.0    81.2       59.3
of which has been repaid/b                 7.5
Total now outstanding                     80.5    81.2
Amount sold                 8.1
Repaid                      4.7            3.4
Total now held by Bank
and IDA                                 77.1    81.2
Total undisbursed                         25.8    33.5       59.3
/a Declared effective on November 6, 1980.
/b Includes repayments through September 30, 1980.



- 27 -                              ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Loan No. 1333 Popondetta Smallholder Oil Palm Development Project;
US$12.0 Million Loan of November 19, 1976; Effective
Date: January 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project is designed to establish 9,600 ha of oil palms with
processing facilities around Popondetta. It includes 4,000 ha nucleus
estate and a factory to serve both estate and smallholder production,
developed as a joint venture between the Government and the Commonwealth
Development Corporation. The Bank-financed portion of the project includes:
5,600 ha of oil palm plantings, subdivided into 1,400 smallholder plots;
long-term credit faciiities for smallholders to be provided through the
PNGDB; extension and visiting inspection services; and technical assistance
for project management; social infrastructure and improvement of the road
network.
Smallholder oil palm planting is slightly behind target but this
is expected to be back on schedule by the end of the current planting sea-
son. The nucleus estate planting is ahead of schedule and should be com-
pleted by May 1981, one year ahead of appraisal estimate. The first phase
development of the oil palm processing factory has been completed and became
operational on May 15, 1980. The transport company for collection of small-
holder blocks within the project was collected on September 2, 1980. All
other works are generally on schedule but some cost overruns have occurred in
the road program which will be met from unallocated funds. Disbursement still
lags behind expenditure - following a temporary improvement - and this is
primarily due to the fact that the drawdown from PNGDB is well below the
actual physical situation.
Credit No. 661 Education Project: US$4.0 Million Credit of November 19,
1976; Effective Date: January 3, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project is designed to: (a) meet manpower requirements in
agriculture, industry, health and the teaching service; and (b) support
education and planning studies in PNG. Physical project implementation
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them.  They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -                          ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
is nearing completion on schedule; technical assistance has incurred
minor delays, but these are being overcome. Educational outcomes look
promising. Project costs are within appraisal estimates. Disbursements
lag behind schedule because of lower than estimated costs and delayed
submission of withdrawal applications.
Credit No. 677 Second Highlands Road Improvement Project; US$19.0
Million Credit of January 28, 1977; Effective Date:
March 29, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project will improve and pave 68 km of the Highlands Highway.
It further provides detailed engineering and feasibility studies of the same
highway in rural development studies of the Enga and Chimbu Provinces, and
techical assistance to domestic road construction contractors. Civil works
are proceeding satisfactorily; detailed engineering and feasibility studies
have been completed. The Chimbu rural development study has been completed
and the Enga study will be finished in the second part of 1980. The
technical assistance component has also been completed.
Loan No. 1551 Second Port Project; US$3.5 Million Loan of May 18, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project will provide facilities for container handling at
Port Moresby so that the greater efficiencies of container shipping can be
realized. Major components include additional land reclamation of 1.6 ha,
to give a total of 4.2 ha, a 125 m berth, an extension of the present
container freight station, and improvements to the port access road. Also
included in the project are a 30 m coastal berth at Samarai, located on a
small island off the coast of Southern Papua, provision of three pilot
launches and consulting services for project design and implementation, and
for training Papua New Guinea Harbours Board staff. The new container berth
and terminal has been completed. The three pilot launches have been
delivered and the coastal berth at Samarai is about 50% complete.
Total dry cargo traffic at all PNGHB's ports in 1979 was 1.8 million
tons, slightly over that for 1978 (1.67). Total container traffic at all
PNGHB-s ports in 1979 was about 48,200 of which about 12,500 were handled in
Port Moresby. Although PNGHB's financial position is currently strong, the
Board-s financial rate of return is substantially less than the loan require-
ment and earnings continue to decline as a result of Government's delay in
implementing appropriate tariff increases. Recently, the Government agreed,
in principle, to permit a 33% increase in tariffs. Further tariff action will
be needed to maintain PNGHB's financial viability.



- 29 -                            ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Credit No. 841 Rural Development Project I; US$20.0 Million Credit of
November 7, 1978; Effective Date: March 7, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Within the Southern Highlands Province, the project would provide
for research into subsistence crops, nutrition and health of the people,
expand coffee, tea, silk and cardamom production, build roads, schools and
health subcenters; support adult education and agricultural extension
services; and contribute to the general development of the province's people
and economy. Construction of civil works is well underway and in general
on schedule. Most of the facilities for the Nurses training school have
been completed. The first Nurse-Aide graduates are expected in April 1981.
The program for Nurse Training, however, is held up by the National Nursing
Council because of shortage of experienced staff at the - hool and the Mendi
Hospital. One of the three health subcenters and one of -he two high
schools are already fully operational. The other two centers and high
school will become operational during 1981.
Twenty tea, coffee and cardamom companies have been formed and are
satisfactorily managed or advised. Land development and new plantings are
slightly shifted towards more coffee lands and cardamom, due to the high
costs of transportation of fresh tealeaves from the tea lands to the
factory. The silk component of the project has been fully assessed by an
FAO mission in April 1980. The recruitment of qualified staff for the
research group and SHMA is still incomplete, but with the appointment of a
team leader more progress is expected in 1981, in particular in the
foodcrops and nutrition components of the research program.
Loan No. 1856 and   Third Highway Project; US$13.0 Million Credit
Credit No. 1030   and US$17.0 Million Loan of May 27, 1980;
Effective Date: September 30, 1980; Closing
Date:  December 31, 1984
The project would assist the Government in completing its program
to improve and pave the Highlands Highway from the main port at Lae through
the Highlands region up to Togoba. It would, further, help strengthen
central and provincial governments by assistance in formulating a strategy
through the help of consultants for maintenance of national, provincial and
village roads. The project also provides additional assistance for trans-
port planning and project identification, preparation and implementation at
the provincial level. The civil works have been successfully tendered and
the Bank has agreed to the selection of consultants for the maintenance
program. Proposals for the technical assistance for the Rural Transport
Project were received and consultants selected with the Bankls concurrence.



- 30 -                              ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) time taken by the country to prepare the project: about 15 months
(b) the agency which has prepared the project: National Department of
Education assisted by Unesco
(c) date of first presentation to the Bank/IDA: April 1979
(d) date of the first Bank/IDA mission to consider the project:
July 1979
(e) date of departure of Appraisal Mission: July 1980
(f) date of completion of negotiations: November 7, 1980
(g) planned date of effectiveness: April 1981
Section II: Special Bank/IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Government would:
(a) gather and submit baseline data for evaluation by December 31,
1982 and annual evaluation data on textbook/curricula impact
during 1984-87 (para. 43);
(b) submit for Bank Group review by December 31, 1982 consolidated
plan for provincial enrollment expansion (para. 48);
(c) ensure completion of study on secondary education problems by
December 31, 1983 (para. 50);
(d) (i) prior to operation of the Provincial Fund, send repre-
sentative subprojects to the Bank Group for examination
(para. 54) and (ii) submit to the Bank Group for its review and
comments such other subprojects as the Bank Group would reasonably
request.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) allocate Provincial Fund-assisted suproject funds to provinces
according to agreed distribution criteria and review Provincial
Fund-assisted subprojects in conformity with agreed criteria
(para. 55).






~o    U.j4J                                                                              
-I 0_
0                          t 0  I I                                                          2-
cz-
____________F~~~~~~ I                                                                                          -- X1 \   \+  
Z    S ' ' <      /                        l \, G    f     f          / /         s G, z  -i,
'-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D
-te                 g   t     s               t   n                                C        s-_._,__.-,-  'N49 
,  ----                         --                                              -    ---------
/  -I___-_ -          F@vr ------------------
11-a ~ ~     - 
<2                                                                            1 (-V I S 3 N O C N I )  V 1 V r   N V-I---I--- -   - - - - -
/  ~~~~~~~~~I                                                              --~~~~~~~~ 
--------------
(fl        I                                                                               ((1  S3N       N 1   k      NV I      
7 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~I/



