01             CREDIT NUMBER 1087 PNG
., 7, 31
Development Credit Agreement
(Primary Education Project)
between
INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                    //          , 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1087 PNG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1981, between
INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of the Project and
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and
the Bank (hereinafter called the Loan Agreement) the Bank is
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to six million dollars ($6,000,000) (hereinafter
called the Loan); and
(C) the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures on the Project
before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided for in
the Loan Agreement are made; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the


﻿-2-
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of
the Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time;
and such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980,
as made applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental
to the Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan Agreement;
(b) "NPEP" means the Borrower's National Public Expenditure
Plan;
(c) "Region" means a territorial sub-division of the Bor-
rower consisting of two or more provinces;
(d) "Sub-project" means a sub-project financed or proposed
to be financed under the Credit under the sectoral program for
primary education under Part D of the Project.
(e)  "POMITC" means the Port Moresby In-Service Teacher's
College; and
(f) "CDC" means the Curriculum Unit of the Standards
Division of the Education Department of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in this Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to nine mil-
lion four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,400,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, printing contracts for text-books
and civil works to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing May 15, 1991 and ending November 15,
2030, each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project or
cause it to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, engineering,
financial and educational practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying
out of the Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be
employed specialists whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion.


﻿- 4-
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or inistallation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.


﻿-5-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project (excluding community schools
financed under Part D of the Project) and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satis-
factory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall gather in a manner satis-
factory to the Association and submit to the Association for its
review and comments: (i) base-line data by December 31, 1982 or
such other date as the Borrower and the Association may agree; and
(ii) annual evaluation data as soon as practicable during 1984-87,
on the impact of the Project on the primary education system of
the Borrower.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall submit to the Association
for its review and comments, by December 31, 1982 or such other
date as the Borrower and the Association may agree, the consoli-
dated plan for enrollment expansion by province or group of
provinces for 1983-87 to be prepared under Part A of the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall complete and submit to the
Association for its review and comments, by December 31, 1983 or
such other date as the Borrower and the Association may agree, the
study of secondary education included in Part G of the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall allocate funds in the
sectoral program for primary education, in accordance with the
criteria satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association, among
the provinces for their sub-projects to be carried out under Part
D of the Project.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall:
(i) select sub-projects for the sectoral program
for primary education under Part D of the Project
in accordance with criteria mutually agreed between
the Borrower and the Association;
(ii) submit to the Association for its review and
comments prior to the operation of the sectoral
program for primary education for 1983, a detailed
description of one sub-project for each Region that


﻿-6 -
shall be considered as representative of the
sub-projects to be carried out in such Region under
Part D of the Project; and
(iii) submit to the Association for its review and
comments such other future sub-projects for each
Region, as the Association may reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained accounts ade-
quate to record in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof;
(ii) enable the Association's accredited representatives
to review the accounts referred to in (i) above;
(iii) submit such accounts, including all records sup-
porting certificates of expenditures referred to in
paragraph 7 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to an
independent audit conducted in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied; and
(iv) submit to the Association the report of the audit
referred to in (iii) above of such scope and in
such detail as the Borrower and the Association
shall agree, including a separate opinion by the
auditor in respect of the said certificates of
expenditures showing whether the proceeds of the
Credit withdrawn on the basis of such certificates
have been used for the purpose for which they were
provided.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall continue to operate, or
cause to be operated, its primary education institutions in
accordance with sound administrative, educational and training
policies and practices and with due regard to economy.


﻿-7-
(b) The Borrower shall at all times employ, or cause to be
employed, qualified administrators and teachers in adequate
numbers to staff the primary education institutions.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall: (i) adequately maintain, or
cause to be maintained, the buildings, furniture and equipment of
its primary education institutions and make, or cause to be made,
all necessary repairs and renewals thereof in accordance with
sound technical and administrative practices; or (ii) provide, or
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the foregoing.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date 6&ouit /(     /98/   is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of SectioY 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.02 and 4.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on a date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister for Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister for Finance
Department of Finance
Post Office Ward's Strip
Papua New Guinea


﻿-8-
Cable address:                       Telex:
TREASURER                           SENTROF
Boroko                              NE 22144
Papua New Guinea                    NE 22218
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
By  9/
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By O/
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 9 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of amounts of such proceeds to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Amount of the    Loan Allocated     % of
Credit Allocated   (Expressed      Expendi-
(Expressed in      in Dollar     tures to be
Category        SDR Equivalent)    Equivalent)     Financed
(1) Civil works         1,190,000         200,000      70%
for Part B, C
and G of the
Project
(2) Equipment,            730,000         700,000      100% of
furniture,                                        foreign
paper and                                         expendi-
other mate-                                       tures,
rials                                             100% of
local ex-
penditures,
ex-factory
and 70% of
local ex-
penditures
for im-
ported
items
(3) Printing ser-          60,000         100,000      70%
vices for
Part B of
the Project


﻿- 10 -
Amount of the
Amount of the    Loan Allocated     % of
Credit Allocated   (Expressed      Expendi-
(Expressed in      in Dollar     tures to be
Category        SDR Equivalent)    Equivalent)     Financed
(4) Technical           2,570,000       2,500,000      100%
Assistance and
Training (in-
cluding sala-
ries, travel
and per diem
for civil
works de-
signers and
other spe-
cialists)
(5) Part D of           4,300,000       2,000,000      30% of local
the Project                                       expenditures
in 1983; 25%
of local
expenditures
in 1984; and
20% of local
expenditures
in 1985
(6) Unallocated           550,000         500,000
TOTAL    9,400,000       6,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.


﻿- 11 -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank and the Association that no
proceeds of the Loan and the Credit shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any
such taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan or the Credit decreases or increases,
the Bank or the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank and the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement. In addition, except as the
Borrower, the Bank and the Association shall otherwise agree, and
until all amounts of the Credit shall have been withdrawn or
committed, no withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account
except under commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions referred to in Section 1.01
of the Loan Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or of
the Credit or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the Bank or the Association has reason-
ably estimated that the amount of the Loan or of the Credit then
allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the Bank
or the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan or of the Credit, as the case may
be, which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Bank or the Association are not needed to meet
other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further with-
drawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association or the Bank shall have reasonably deter-
mined that the procurement of any item in any Category is incon-
sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan or of the Credit and the Bank or the


﻿- 12 -
Association may, without in any way restricting or limiting any
other right, power or remedy of the Bank or of the Association
under the Loan Agreement or the Development Credit Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan or of the
Credit as, in the Bank's or the Association's reasonable opinion,
represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan
or of the Credit.
7.   Each request for withdrawal from the Credit Account or the
Loan Account in respect of Category (2) for local expenditures
of not more than $1,000 equivalent for each purchase and not more
than $500,000 equivalent in the aggregate, Category (3), Category
(4) for local travel and per diem, and Category (5) shall be
accompanied by a certificate issued by the Borrower, in such form
as shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association or
the Bank, as the case may be, by which the Borrower certifies that
the expenditures on account of which the withdrawal is requested
have been made for the Project.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Part A:   Administration and Planning
(1) Training programs for educational administrators and
planners to strengthen national and provincial planning
and administration; and
(2) preparation of provincial education plans through
provision of specialist services.
Part B:   Curriculum Development
(1) Construction, furnishing and equipping of a national
curriculum development center wiich will support devel-
opment, testing and production of primary teaching
materials including text-books; and strengthen exami-
nation services and curriculum development through
training programs and provision of specialist services;
and
(2) improvement of curricula and library services of the
provinces through provision of specialist services and
training programs.
Part C:   Teacher Training
(1) Construction, furnishing and equipping of POMITC;
and improvement of its in-service teacher training
programs through provision of training programs and
specialist services;
(2) Strengthening of educational resources centers through
provision of training programs and specialist services;
and
(3) improvement of in pre-service teachers' colleges through
provision of training programs and specialist services.
Part D:   Provincial Primary Education
Support of NPEP sectoral program in provincial primary
education for 1983-85 through provision of financial support for
sub-projects for the provinces.


﻿- 14 -
Part E:   Evaluation and Management
Strengthening of evaluation and management capabilities
through provision of training programs and specialist services.
Part F:   Staff Housing
Construction of about 20 houses for Project staff.
Part G:   Studies
Preparation of future education projects including a study
of secondary education.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1987.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association or the Bank, as the case may be, as
soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60 days prior to
the date of availability to the public of the first tender or
prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a
general procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing
such information as the Association shall reasonably request; the
Association or the Bank, as the case may be, will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in the


﻿- 16 -
Independent State of Papua New Guinea may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Independent State of Papua New Guinea if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction
of the Borrower and the Association or the Bank, as
the case may be, that the manufacturing cost of
such goods includes a value added in the Indepen-
dent State of Papua New Guinea equal to at least
20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such


﻿- 17 -
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts costing less than $10,000 equivalent may be let
after inviting at least three price quotations; provided, however,
that such contracts shall not cost in excess of $250,000 equi-
valent in the aggregate.
2.   Contracts for civil works not exceeding the equivalent of
$300,000 per contract may be let on the basis of the Borrower's
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.   Contracts for printing equipment estimated to cost less
than $300,000 equivalent may be let to a supplier or suppliers
that provide local maintenance facilities in the Borrower's
territory.
4.   Contracts for furniture, equipment, materials and paper
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less may be let either
(i) on the basis of competitive bidding advertized locally or (ii)
under the existing government stores contracts; provided all such
procurement shall not in the aggregate exceed the equivalent of
$1,300,000.
5.   Printing of educational materials may be carried out on
the basis of force account by the Borrower, provided such pro-
curement shall not exceed the equivalent of $250,000 in the
aggregate.
6.   Books may be procured directly from their authorized distri-
butors in accordance with the Borrower's procurement procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
7.   Goods and civil works under Part D of the Project may be
procured in accordance with the Borrower's procurement procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1*   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:


﻿- 18 -
With respect to all contracts to be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association or the Bank, as the case may be, for its
comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifi-
cations and other bidding documents, together with a description
of the advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and
shall make such modifications in the said documents or procedures
as the Association or the Bank, as the case may be, shall reason-
ably request. Any further modification to the bidding documents
shall require the Association's or the Bank's concurrence, as the
case may be, before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association or the Bank, as the case may be, of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and shall
furnish to the Association or the Bank, as the case may be, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, ard such other informa-
tion as the Association or the Bank, as the case may be, shall
reasonably request. The Association or the Bank, as the case
may be, shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's or the Bank's concurrence, as the case
may be, materially differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association or the Bank, as the case may be, promptly aiter
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association or
the Bank, as the case may be, of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account or the Loan Account,
as the case may be, in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association or the
Bank, as the case may be, promptly after its execution and prior
to the submission to the Association or the Bank, as the case may
be, of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account or the Loan Account, as the case may be, in respect


﻿- 19 -
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Association or the Bank,
as the case may be, shall reasonably request. The Association or
the Bank, as the case may be, shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the      -L day of
198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


