 IEG
                                                                                             Report Number: ICRR14703

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group


1. Project Data:                                             Date Posted: 06/26/2015

                 Country: Indonesia
                           Is this Review for a Programmatic Series ?                                    Yes    No
                           How many operations were planned for the                                  2
                          series?
                           How many were approved ?                                                  2
             Series ID: S144774
       First Project ID : P124006                                                Appraisal                 Actual
        Project Name: First Connectivity          Project Costs (US$M):                      100.0                  100.0
                          Development Policy
                          Loan
 L/C Number:                                       Loan/Credit (US$M):                       100.0                  100.0
      Sector Board:       Transport                Cofinancing (US$M):                         0.0                  301.0

          Cofinanciers: Asian Development            Board Approval Date :                                 11/20/2012
                        Bank.                                Closing Date:            04/30/2013           04/30/2013
          Sector(s):   General  transportation sector  (44%); Telecommunications   (31%);  Health  (9%); General
                       energy sector (8%); General water; sanitation and flood protection sector (8%)
         Theme(s):     Infrastructure services for private sector development (43%); Trade facilitation and market
                       access (31%); Rural services and infrastructure (13%); Regional integration (13%)
    Second Project ID :P144774                                                   Appraisal               Actual
        Project Name:  Connectivity                Project Costs (US$M):                    300.0                300.0
                       Development Policy
                       Loan 2
 L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                    300.0                300.0
      Sector Board:    Economic Policy               Cofinancing (US$M):                       0.0               700.0
                                                     Board Approval Date :                                 12/22/2013
           Cofinancers:Asian Development                     Closing Date:            04/30/2014           04/30/2014
                       Bank, Japan
                       International
                       Cooperation Agency,
                       Agence Française de
                       Développement
          Sector(s):   General transportation sector (56%), General industry and trade sector (22%), General
                       public administration sector (11%), Telecommunications (11%)
         Theme(s):     City-wide Infrastructure and Service Delivery (34%), Trade facilitation and market access
                       (29%), Infrastructure services for private sector development (27%), Regional integration
                       (10%)
Evaluator:              Panel Reviewer:         ICR Review                  Group:
                                                Coordinator:
Mauricio Carrizosa      Jorge Garcia-Garcia Lourdes N. Pagaran             IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The overarching objective of the program the First (DPL1) and Second (DPL2) Connectivity Policy Loans
    comprised was “to assist the Government of Indonesia to strengthen the policy framework for improved national
    trade logistics, transportation, ICT, and trade facilitation (Program Documents, DPL1, p. i; and DPL2, p. i). The
    DPLs articulated the same four separate objectives in both DPLs (Program Document, DPL1, pp. i; and Program
    Document DPL2, pp. i):

    (i)     Strengthening National Coordination and Regulation;
    (ii)    Strengthening Intra-island Connectivity (rail and road);
    (iii)   Improving Inter-island Connectivity;
    (iv)    Improving International Connectivity (port decongestion and trade facilitation).

    This review uses the objectives listed above to assess efficacy.

 b. If this is a single DPL operation (not part of a series), were the project objectives/ key
associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Policy Areas:

    The policy areas identified in the program documents were the same as the objectives indicated above:

    (i)     Strengthening National Coordination and Regulation.

    This area covered establishment of regulatory and institutional frameworks for improved coordination and
    effectiveness in implementation of the connectivity agenda;

    (ii) Strengthening Intra-island Connectivity (rail and road).

    This area covered improvements of connectivity among and between growth poles, with regulatory framework for
    land acquisition for public purpose development and optimal use of resources for sustainable improvement and
    maintenance of island-transport network.

    (iii) Improving Inter-island Connectivity;

    This area covered improvements in access, efficiencies and service performance in ICT and domestic shipping
    (shipping added in DPL2).

    (iv) Improving International Connectivity (port decongestion and trade facilitation).

    This area covered strengthen of the institutions and processes in handling traffic and trade volume.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

    The loans were approved by the Bank on 11/20/12 (DPL1) and 11/19/13 (DPL2) and declared effective on
    12/14/12 (DPL1) and 12/13/13 (DP2). The single tranches were released on 12/21/12 (DPL1) and 12/19/13
    (DPL2). The loans closed, as anticipated, on 04/30/2013 (DPL1) and 04/30/2014 (DPL2).


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:


    High. The objectives of the DPL series addressed Indonesia’s complex connectivity issues. These included the
    need to coordinate policies across multiple agencies and bring in private investments to improve access to
    domestic and international markets. The objectives responded to the 2011-2025 development “Master
    Plan” ("Master Plan for the Acceleration and Expansion of Indonesia's Economic Development 2011-2025") that
    the Government of Indonesia (GoI) launched in May 2011, and that included a strategy to strengthen national
    connectivity. The strategy aimed to build synergies and linkages among the country’s centers of growth in each
    major island group, including international connectivity for trade and tourism (DPO1, para. 161). The Bank’s
    FY09-FY12 CPS, under which the Bank approved the DPL1, supported the connectivity strategy through its
    cross-cutting pillars to develop national and sub-national institutions and systems; the country’s infrastructure,
    including roads and ICT; and the private sector, including the institutional structure and capacity for more
    effective trade policies. The Bank’s FY13-15 CPS, under which the Bank approved the DPL2, also supported the
    connectivity strategy, through its pillars to develop connectivity, competitiveness, and infrastructure.


b. Relevance of Design:
   Modest. The results framework was inadequate in that most of the policies taken under the program did not
   ensure that the objectives could be achieved. On one objective (international connectivity) actions were
   well-designed to help achieve the objective. But that was not the case in the others. For example, the set of
   measures on coordination and regulation (including the DPL1 prior action to establish a logistics blueprint and
   appoint its coordinating working team, the Connectivity Working Group) did not sufficiently empower the main
   implementing agency (Bappenas, the National Development Planning Agency) to ensure the many agencies
   involved in the connectivity agenda implemented their part of the program. On inter-island connectivity, as the
   ICR notes, developing ports (underpinned by a DPL2 prior action to classify Indonesian sea ports) does not
   necessarily result in improved freight traffic, service standards, stevedoring (loading-unloading) productivity, and
   improved economies of scale of serving remote and low-density ports in eastern Indonesia. It is also questionable
   that the policies would suffice to bring in the required private investments to infrastructure to actually improve
   intra- and inter-island connectivity. By way of example, private investment in toll roads will need more than a
   measure to clarify the framework of land purchases for public use, a DPL 1 prior action. In some areas (e.g.,
   urban transport for intra-island connectivity), preparation was insufficient to even trigger the necessary measures.
   More broadly, the complexity of connectivity issues and the multiple actors involved suggest, as the ICR points
   out, that TA components or parallel operations were an unmet need in the overall design.


 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   The four objectives remained unchanged throughout the DPL1 and DPL2. There were some changes in expected
outcomes, indicators, and targets. This assessment of efficacy is based on the objectives, outcomes and indicators
laid out in the Two-Year Program Policy-Matrix and Results Framework, presented in the Program Document for
DPL2 (pp. 56-61).

    Strengthening National Coordination and Regulation : Modest

    Achievements towards this objective were limited. The DPLs defined the following expected outcomes: i)
    stronger coordination of policy reforms surrounding connectivity; and ii) establishment of transparent processes
    for channeling public funds to viable connectivity infrastructure PPP projects for further market uptake.

    To gauge the first outcome, the DPL1 and DPL2 defined two different qualitative targets. The extent to which
    these were met is uncertain. The ICR argued the DPL1 target (Better policy making process through effective
    functioning of the Connectivity Working Group and National Logistics Team) was met because the Connectivity
    Working Group and the National Logistics Team met regularly, and the Connectivity Working Group released
    annual reports on the progress of the Government’s Logistics Blueprint, ICT development, and Transportation
    and Energy policies. While the meetings and reports might suggest improved coordination and monitoring, they
    do not indicate whether these led to improvements in the outcome indicator (“Improved guidance in policy
    formulation coordination and implementation of policy reforms in logistics and connectivity”). The ICR points out,
    for example, that technical coordination meetings were devoid of substantive discussions on the contributions of
    the policy actions (and the ministries) to the wider connectivity reforms in the Master Plan (ICR, p.8).

    The ICR argues the DPL2 target (By end of 2014 National Logistics Strategy have been internalized by relevant
    agencies for formulation and identification of policy reforms agenda in trade logistics), introduced by the DPL2
    and the basis of this assessment of efficacy, was met. This is because the Logistics Blueprint was “internalized”
    in the Ministry of Transportation’s strategic plan (i.e., included in its plans) and implemented by other ministries,
    including the opening of two ports to international traffic and the extension of another. However, the significance
    of this achievement is compromised by lack of clarity on what internalizing the Blueprint actually entailed with
    regard to the intended Indicator (“improved guidance in policy formulation in trade logistics reform”), other than
    the absorption of the Blueprint by the Ministry of Transportation. Furthermore, as the documentation (ICR, p. x,
    footnote 3) suggests, the Ministry of Transport internalized the blueprint well before the date the DPL2 was
    approved. Accordingly, it is unlikely this result was attributable to the DPL2.

    None of the two targets say how much more strongly than before the Government coordinated policy reforms
    surrounding connectivity or how any improvements in coordination resulted in better policies.

    To DPL2 target for the second outcome (to budget and use the Viability Gap Financing (VGF) in at least one
    infrastructure PPP project) was met. The VGF was budgeted in 2014 and at the end of March this year, the
Ministry of Finance approved VGF funding for a clean water project in Lampung. Accordingly, there was progress
towards the desired outcome of transparent public funding of PPP connectivity projects.

Strengthening Intra -island Connectivity (rail and road): Modest

Achievements towards this objective were limited. The DPL2 defined the following three expected outcomes: i)
Improve DPL2 investors’ confidence and stakeholders’ participation in the national connectivity agenda; ii)
strengthen the restructuring process of the railway sector to make it respond better to growing demand for better
services and improved accessibility; iii) Improve planning and implementation of public road investment.

The target for the first outcome (“adoption and effective application of the provisions of the new Land Acquisition
Law” for public use) was not met. Although the Law was in force beginning January 2015, the ICR does not
indicate whether the new framework has actually been applied and points out the new legal framework will face
difficult implementation challenges (p. 14). The ICR suggests “private investment in toll road has increased in
expectation of the application of the regulations” (p.13), but the evidence it submitted was limited to one example
of a well-advanced toll-road, for which most land was acquired under previous land regulations and possibly
before the DPLs were in place.

The DPL2 defined two targets for the second outcome. The first (that railway operators be compensated for
subsidized public service obligations following new guidelines providing certainty with regard to the compensation
amounts) was not achieved. Although new guidelines provide certainty, actual payments still await Parliament
approval. The second (that the Government include provisions on reimbursement of Infrastructure Maintenance
Operations and payment of Track Access Charges in the budget), was achieved, although implementation still
awaits additional regulations relating to non-tax revenue collection and payments by the Ministry of
Transportation.

The target for the third outcome (that, by the end of 2014, performance-based contracts (PBCs) be used for at
least 50 km of the national road network) was surpassed, Between 2011 and 2014, PBCs were awarded for the
maintenance of about 120 km of roads in Central and East Java and Central Kalimantan. However, the use of
PBCs does not imply improvements in planning of road investments.

All in all, while better implementation of road investments may be improving intra-island connectivity, changes in
railway management and in land acquisitions for public use are incipient in implementation and in their potential
effect on intra-island connectivity.

Improving Inter-island Connectivity : Modest


Achievements towards this objective were limited. The DPL2 defined the following two expected outcomes: i) To
close the “digital divide” between East and West Indonesia through development of broadband services to
Eastern Indonesia; and ii) To Strengthen development of the roadmap in Indonesia’s port sector and improve
domestic sea shipping.

The target for the first outcome (to complete tender processes for the ICT Fund to support the first phase of
broadband development to underserved areas in Eastern Indonesia) was not met because an unrelated
corruption case halted all programs at the Ministry of Communications and Information. The target for the second
outcome (finalization of at least 2 individual port development plans based on the Ministry of Transport
Regulation to modernize Indonesia’s domestic port network) was surpassed. Completed plans include: Cilamaya,
Kalibaru, Kuala Tanjung, Teluk Lamong, and theTanjung Priok expansion. The Master Plan led to actual
constructions of two port projects: a new port at Teluk Lamong in East Java and the Tanjung Priok port expansion
in Jakarta. However, as the ICR indicates (p. 16), ports are insufficient to improve inter-island connectivity.
Accordingly, the indicator and target do not fully indicate progress on this outcome (i.e, on improving domestic
sea shipping). In sum, the program may have achieved some progress in inter-island connectivity through port
construction but no progress through broadband services.

Improving International Connectivity (port decongestion and trade facilitation ): Substantial

The DPL2 defined one outcome towards this objective: Increase institutional capacity in trade facilitation to better
handle the increasing volume of international trade (DPL2).

The DPL2 defined two targets for this outcome. The program achieved some progress towards the first target (to
begin transformation of the managerial and institutional set-up of the Indonesia National Single Window System
(INSW) towards an INSW agency that manages the customs clearance process in the future). Instead of setting
   an independent agency, the Government upgraded a team in charge of INSW anchored at the Coordinating
   Ministry for Economic Affairs to an INSW Task Force under the Ministry of Finance, with a steering committee
   chaired by the Coordinating Minister and comprising the relevant ministers. As the ICR points out, this results in a
   weaker and less permanent mandate than an independent agency would have had.

   The second target (the single sign-on system facilitates submission of documents for import clearance to the
   Food and Drug Agency, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Trade, and the Quarantine Agency) was met. Currently, 18
   agencies and ministries are participating in the INSW, which is implemented in six ports and three airports,
   representing 80 percent of Indonesia’s international trade volume.

   Progress in single submission and sign on may have contributed to international connectivity. As the ICR points
   out, the DPL1 target to improve the Logistics Performance Indicator for customs and border management to a
   level above 2.7 by 2014 (from 2.53 in 2012) was surpassed (2.87). Furthermore, the monthly average dwell time
   (also a DP1 indicator) decreased from 6.3 days in November 2012 to 5.2 days in September 2014, despite
   increases in freight traffic and a higher number of import permits issued by line ministries, which increase dwell
   time (ICR, p.18). But this also suggests that trade was hampered by more permits that need to go through
   pre-clearance processes.


5. Efficiency (not applicable to DPLs):


6. Outcome:

   The DPL series focused on the broad, well documented challenges connectivity in Indonesia faces. It covered the
   connectivity reform institutional framework, as well as intra- and inter island connectivity and international
   connectivity issues. It was anchored on Government programs, both broad and specific, and was congruent with
   objectives in the two CPSs spanning the series. The two operations in the series aimed to improve performance
   in the connectivity areas, with a variable adequacy of design. In one area (e.g., international connectivity),
   policies were well-tailored to objectives. In the others, the measures did not suffice to achieve the objectives as
   articulated. Implementation was slowed down by the complexity of connectivity issues and the multiple
   intervening institutions as well as by the political transition in mid-2014. The DPL series achieved some good
   outcomes (providing finance for infrastructure PPP projects, and improving road maintenance/rehabilitation
   management, road investments, port investment programming, and international trade processes). Other
   outcomes fell below expectations.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

   The ICR notes three risks to development outcome. Political risks stem from the transition in 2014 to a new
   government that will take time to firm up its own program and decide whether and how it wants to continue with
   the connectivity agenda. Implementation risks remain due to the institutional complexity of the agenda (e.g.
   coordinating the agencies involved in implementing land acquisitions under the new regime). Macroeconomic
   risks are presently posed by recent trends in external balances and could lead to an environment not conducive
   to investment in long-term infrastructure projects. Furthermore, governance risks will continue to be present,
   given that Indonesia suffers from widespread corruption (ICR p, 16). As the ICR points out, risks are higher on
   intra- and inter-island connectivity than on the policy coordination and international connectivity pillars, due to the
   high duration of land acquisitions, unfinished railway reforms, governance risks to public procurement (e.g., on
   performance-based contracts), and uncertain availability of financing.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

    Quality at entry benefited from a focus on a development priority, from engagement with other development
    partners, and from complementary Bank operations. But quality suffered from inadequate designs in many of
    the areas the DPLs covered, from inattention to governance risks, and from insufficient authority by the
    implementing agency. A focus of the operation on the various dimensions of connectivity, which links the
    supply chain from producers to consumers, marked its strong strategic relevance to country conditions and
    government programs, and Bank strategy. The Bank worked closely with other development partners in
    preparing and financing this program, including the ADB, the Japan International Cooperation Agency, and
    the French Agence Française de Développement, all of which co-financed the program. Other Bank
    operations (investment lending for roads and power) complemented the DPLs towards its connectivity aims.
    Although the design of the DPLs benefited from analytical work, from consultations covering some of their
    aspects, and from some poverty focus, it suffered from insufficient actions to achieve most intended aims.
    Although the Program Documents outlined important risks, they did not cover governance risks and adequate
    mitigation measures in a country suffering from widespread corruption, with those risks materializing to derail
    the ICT policy the DPLs supported. Bappenas, the coordinating agency, was not endowed with the necessary
    authority to implement the program across the many agencies and government levels involved in the
    program. M&E was poorly designed.


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                     Moderately Unsatisfactory


b. Quality of supervision:


    Supervision of the DPL focused on monitoring of progress towards outcome indicators, which was done on a
    continuous basis, and on discussion of follow-up policy actions in preparation for the second DPL. These led
    to two material changes in outcomes: i) exclusion of expected improvements in urban transportation in
    Greater Jakarta; and ii) addition of expected improvement in port development plans and in domestic sea
    shipping. The first responded to inadequate preparation of a Transportation Authority for Greater Jakarta
    (Program Document DPL2, p. 32). The second responded to progress in port planning regulations that had
    been uncertain at the time of the DPL1 (Program Document DPL2, pp. 32-33). On M&E, changes in outcome
    indicators were mostly inadequate and did little to improve the poor M&E framework (See Section 10).
    Finally, reflecting feedback from a government official, the ICR notes the Bank could have done a better job of
    explaining the mechanics of the DPL to all stakeholders.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :            Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The Government showed its commitment to the program in several ways. These include Government attention
to connectivity in its Master Plan, its National Logistics Blue Print, and its National Connectivity Strategy and
Action Plan, as well as the prior actions for both DPLs. Commitment is further indicated by the manpower the
Government appears to have dedicated to the program. The latter included the two key groups engaged in the
program (the Connectivity Working Group and National Logistics Team) and the various inter-ministerial teams
involving the private sector that the Coordinating Ministry for Economic Affairs (CMEA) created in order to
coordinate and implement different elements of the Master Plan in relation to the connectivity agenda (DPL1 para.
92). Government consultations with stakeholders on its development plan and Parliament consultations with the
Government and civil society organizations on the Railway and Land Acquisition Laws provided further legitimacy
to the reforms supported by the DPLs. Annual reporting by the Connectivity Working Group suggests good
Government attention to M&E, despite the M&E pitfalls. On the adverse side, the momentum of the reforms was
challenged by their substantive and institutional complexity, by the inadequate authority of Bappenas (the agency
coordinating the program) over line ministries in charge of implementation actions, and by the 2014 political
transition. Furthermore, management of the macroeconomic environment, which failed to avoid a deterioration of
the current account balance since 2011, may have discouraged investment in long-term infrastructure needed for
connectivity. Finally, the planned follow up Development Policy Operation, which would have led to adequate
transition arrangements for continued support in the same areas, is now marked by uncertainties with regard to
the approach the new government will adopt towards the wide range of connectivity issues.
  Government Performance Rating :                           Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   The main implementing agency was the National Development Planning Agency (Bappenas). The ICR
   provided scant details of its performance. Bappenas’s Vice Minister played an active role, convening senior
   officials when required, while delegating the more technical work to the infrastructure and PPP directorates in
   the agency. Although the Planning Agency facilitated work across line ministries, the effectiveness of this
   work appears to have been compromised by its lack of authority over the line ministries. In additions, CMEA
   was responsible for key aspects of the connectivity agenda, including logistics, infrastructure, and regional
   development, but the ICR did not provide details of its engagement. The ICR indicates performance varied
   across the other agencies engaged in the program. Although they completed policy actions on time, many
   perceived these as an added burden unmatched by additional budgets.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Moderately Unsatisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   M&E design suffered from a poor definition of objectives, outcomes, indicators, baselines and targets. Objectives
   (e.g., Strengthening National Coordination and Regulation) were too general, reflective of their confusion with
   policy areas. Several outcomes were also too general or broad to be adequately measured by the selected
   indicators. One example is the aim to “strengthen progress in restructuring of the railway sector”, where adequate
   indicators would need a more precisely defined restructuring goal. In this case, the DPL2 replaced a poor
   indicator (on accounting) by two indicators describing more substantive restructuring actions, albeit not fully
   descriptive of the broader outcome. In other cases as well, indicators did not fully capture the results associated
   with achieving the objective. This happened with the outcome to “improve planning and implementation of public
   road investment”, where the indicator (“use of performance-based contracts”) did not capture the “planning”
   dimension of the objective. In one case, the indicator (“improved coordination and implementation of policy
   reforms surrounding connectivity”) was close to a restatement of the outcome (“strengthen coordination of policy
   reforms”), not a measurement of it. The DPL2 narrowed the indicator to trade reforms but maintained the broader
   connectivity outcome. Given the nature of the indicators offered, much of the collected data largely consisted of
   administrative actions which did not actually measure progress towards the outcome. For example, the indicator
   “effective application of the provisions in the new Land Acquisition Law..” did not measure the outcome “increase
   investors’ confidence and stakeholder participation….”. An immaterial DPL2 change in the wording of the indicator
   (certainty and transparency of land acquisitions) did not resolve its inadequacy as a measure of the outcome. On
   the new DPL2 outcome (port development and shipping), the indicator captured the port dimension of the
   outcome, not the broader shipping dimensions. In some cases baselines and targets hardly admitted
   comparable measurements (e.g., the target of “better policy making process…” against the baseline of “ineffective
   policy making…”; or the target of “effective application of the provisions in the new Land Acquisition Law” against
   the baseline of “Uncertainty concerning the cost, compensation level and length of land acquisition process.”).
   Other DPL2 changes were inconsequential. On public resources for PPP connectivity projects, the wording of the
   outcome and indicator changed inconsequentially, albeit with a more precisely drafted target. On the outcome to
   expand broadband services, the wording of outcome and indicators changed immaterially, while the target was
   changed from an outcome (broadband access) to an output (completion of tender processes), thereby reducing
   its depiction of the intended outcome. Similarly. on international trade, the change in the expected outcome (from
   a focus on time and cost of trade to a focus on trade institutions) was well matched by changes in indicators, but
   with the new “outcome” and indicators more akin to an output, not an outcome.

b. M&E Implementation:

   M&E was implemented through regular inter-ministerial meetings of the implementing ministries/agencies. The
   Bank collected data on the indicators defined in the program documents, and made limited efforts to address the
    pitfalls discussed above.

c. M&E Utilization:

    The ICR did not discuss M&E utilization. There is little or no discussion of the impact of monitoring outcomes on
    government policies or of how and if such outcomes triggered changes in strategy. For example, there is no
    discussion of any plans to address the intergovernmental issues that led to the failed roads program for the
    Greater Jakarta area. The nature of many indicators pointed towards measurement of inputs or outputs (e.g.,
    performance-based contracts on roads), not outcomes (actual implementation of road investments).

  M&E Quality Rating: Modest


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

    The ICR did not report on the environmental effects of the DPLs, although the program document for the DPL1
    discussed this issue (see p. 53, DPL1 for a discussion).


b. Fiduciary Compliance:

    The ICR did not discuss fiduciary compliance.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

    The ICR did not discuss unintended impacts.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Moderately                   Moderately        Efficacy was modest in 3 of the 4
                               Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory    objectives.

          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant       Note: The ICR rating was "substantial",
                     Outcome:                                                 which is not included in the rating scale.

            Bank Performance: Moderately                    Moderately        Designs in many of the areas the DPLs
                              Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory    covered were inadequate and
                                                                              governance risks did not receive
                                                                              adequate attention.

       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately        Bappenas, the main implementing
                              Satisfactory                  Unsatisfactory    agency, had no effective authority over
                                                                              implementing ministries and agencies,
                                                                              and was unable to force line ministries
                                                                              to meet the deadlines of the policy
                                                                              targets.
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

    This evaluation highlights three lessons drawn by the ICR:
      Although an operation supporting reform in broad widely cross-cutting areas may have a stronger
        transformative impact, it also may bear a higher risk of achieving only a fraction of its objectives.
      A wide cross-cutting DPL does not automatically elicit the coordination efforts that engaging multiple
        agencies requires, so that inadequate coordination may impede the achievements sought.
      Electoral cycles may slow down the momentum of reform, particularly with the bureaucratic,
        administrative, and legal impediments that may arise during those periods.


14. Assessment Recommended?                Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:



    The ICR provided information on context, including macroeconomic and political developments, as well as
    strategic sector and Bank program considerations. It could have elaborated more on fiscal challenges that
    Indonesia is facing at present and that may have had a bearing on some aspects of the program. The discussion
    of factors that affected implementation and outcomes could have discussed those factors more systematically,
    particularly those that accounted for the lag between policy and regulatory reforms and actual implementation.
    The discussion of M&E could have included an account of how it was utilized. The ICR’s assessment of
    outcomes was systematic and provided most of the relevant information underpinning its assessments. It could
    have delved at more length on the links and significance of the targets for the outcomes as articulated (e.g., how
    did meetings and reports of the working group teams improve actual coordination and implementation?) and
    provide more information where the DPL indicators were inadequate. It could also have covered the failure of the
    Greater Jakarta road program. Its assessment of risks to development outcome provides a useful specification of
    risks for each of the pillars. The lessons section relates well to the experience of the operation, although some of
    the “lessons” are actually recommendations.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
