Document of
THE WORLD BANK
Report No. 22526-UA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED GRANT FROM THE
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 5.4 MILLION (US$6.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
UKRAINE
FOR THE
AZOV BLACK SEA CORRIDOR BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
December 14, 2001
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Ukraine and Belarus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 200 1)
Currency Unit = Hryvnia (UAH)
UAH 1.00 = US$0.18
US$1.00 = UAH 5.43
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BSAP         Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan
BSEP         Black Sea Environmental Program
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
COP          Conference of the Parties
CSCEP        Crimea State Committee for Environmnental Protection
EA           Environmental Assessment
EU           European Union
EMP          Environmental Management Plan
FSU          Former Soviet Union
GEF          Global Environment Facility
GIS          Geographic Information System
GOE          Government-owned Enterprises
IDF          Institutional Development Fund
LAC          Local Advisory Committee
MENR         Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources
NGO          Nongovernmental Organization
PSC          Project Steering Committee
PAL          Programmatic Adjustment Loan
PIP          Project Implementation Plan
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
PMR          Project Management Report
RLP          Regional Landscape Park
SA           Special Account
SAC          Scientific Advisory Committee
SOE          Statement of Expenditure
ULRMC        Ukrainian Land and Resource Management Center
USAID        United States Agency for Intemational Development
Vice President:   Johannes F. Limn
Country Manager/Director:   Luca Barbone
Sector Manager/Director:    Kevin M. Cleaver
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Phillip Brylski



UKRAINE
AZOV BLACK SEA CORRIDOR BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                        2
2. Key performance indicators                                                           2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   7
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       11
3. Benefits and target population                                                      11
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       11
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                 15
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    17
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         17
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Econornic                                                                           18
2. Financial                                                                           18
3. Technical                                                                           19
4. Institutional                                                                       19
5. Environmental                                                                       20
6. Social                                                                              22
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  23
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     24



2. Critical risks                                                                      24
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      25
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             25
2. Other                                                                               25
H. Readiness for Inplementation                                                           26
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          26
Annexes
Anmex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           27
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     33
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          47
Annex 4: Incremental Costs and Global Environmental Benefits                              48
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                55
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrngements                                         56
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      65
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    66
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   68
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             70
Annex I1: Stakeholder Analysis and Participatory Approach                                 72
MAP(S)
NA



UKRAINE
Azov Black Sea Corridor Biodiversity Conservation
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSSD
Date: December 14, 2001                            Team Leader: Phillip Brylski
Country Manager/Director: Luca Barbone             Sector Manager/Director: Marjory-Anne Bromhead
Project ID: P048790                                Sector(s): VM - Natural Resources Management
Theme(s):
Focal Area: B - Biodiversity                       Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[ ] Loan     [ ] Credit    mX] Grant    [1 Guarantee      [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m):
Financing Plan (US$m):     Source                             Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                               1.70           0.00           1.70
DENMARK: DANISH INTL. DEV. ASSISTANCE (DANIDA)                   0.15           0.45           0.60
EC: TECH ASSISTANCE FOR CIS - TACIS                              0.50            1.50          2.00
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT - ASSOCIATED IBRD FUND                       14.50            1.50         16.00
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                      5.44            1.46          6.90
NETHERLANDS, GOV. OF THE (EXCEPT FOR                             0.15           0.35           0.50
MOFA/MIN.OF DEV.COOP.)
US, GOV. OF                                                      0.10           0.10           0.20
LOCAL GOVTS. (PROV., DISTRICT, CITY) OF BORROWING                0.40            0.00          0.40
COUNTRY
LOCAL SOURCES OF BORROWING COUNTRY                               0.30           0.00           0.30
UK: UNITED KINGDOM KNOW HOW FUND                                 0.10           0.30           0.40
WORLD WILDLIFE FUND                                              1.50           2.00           3.50
Total:                                                          24.84            7.66         32.50
Borrower/Recipient: UKRAINE
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCES
Address: 5 Khreshchatyk Street, Kyiv, Ukraine
Contact Person: Mr. Yaroslav Movchan
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002        2003       2004       2005       2006
Annual    0.75         1.60       2.00       1.55       1.00
Cumulative    0.75        2.35       4.35        5.90      6.90
Project implementation period: 5 years; Note: Estimated Disbursements are for GEF financing only
0Cb PAD F-  -  aCh 2000



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
Project development objective: The project objective is to conserve coastal biodiversity within the Azov
Black Sea coastal corridor by strengthening the protected area network, mainstreaming biodiversity
conservation into the agricultural landscapes which connect them, and by building support at the national
and international levels for sustainable development of the region's unique biological landscape.
Global development objective: The global objective is to support in situ conservation of biodiversity and
threatened wetland ecosystems through protected area planning and reduction of agricultural impacts on
Ramsar sites. The Project would implement recommendations of the Black Sea Environment Program,
help remove institutional, financial and knowledge barriers which serve as disincentives to the adoption of
environmentally sustainable agricultural practices, and develop Ukraine's leadership in international
agreements such as the Bonn Convention on Migratory Species.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key indicators of project success are:
*   Ramsar coastal wetlands and associated upland steppe communities on the Azov Black Sea coast under
full protection, with management plans under implementation, increased by 250,000 hectares, through
establishment of new protected areas and improved management of existing ones;
*   Increased support for biodiversity conservation, marked by increased participation of local
communities in protected area management and conservation activities;
*   Land use plans that integrate new and existing Protected Areas and sites of other high biodiversity
value prepared in six coastal rayons;
-   Farm management plans to reduce nutrient runoff under implementation on 10,000 hectares of coastal
farmland;
*   Improved nutrient reduction and erosion control measures under implementation in at least one raion of
each coastal oblast;
*   5,000 hectares of forest belts under sustainable use, with defined roles of farms in their management.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 20723-UA Date of latest CAS discussion: 08/16/00
The CAS seeks to assist Government and civil society in implementing a broad-based poverty reduction
strategy, with a focus on institution building and environmentally sustainable development. The CAS
states that despite ecological problems, Ukraine has conserved a number of typical and unique ecosystems
which have been lost in other countries in Europe and elsewhere. The GEF biodiversity project is included
in the CAS, which states that the Bank will help Government to: (i) improve the environmental regulatory
framework; (ii) improve the capacity of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources; and (iii)
-2 -



prepare and implement investment projects in the protection of biodiversity, and improvement of land,
water, and solid waste management.
la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
The Ukrainian coasts of the Black and Azov seas contain large and biologically diverse wetland complexes,
some of which are the best or only remaining examples of these wetland types in Europe. 650,000 hectares
of the most important of these have been designated Ramsar sites, including 250,000 hectares of the unique
saline lagoons and mudflats in the Sivash ecosystem of northern Crimea. These wetlands and the adjoining
upland steppe habitats along the northwestern border of the Black Sea function as the Azov Black Sea
Ecological Corridor, are critical spawning grounds for numerous fish species, some of which are
threatened, and wintering and feeding habitat for millions of geese, ducks and waders that overwinter there
or utilize the wetlands for feeding and resting on their annual migration between northern Europe and
Siberia and Africa. Fifteen of the 27 European threatened bird species stopover or breed in these wetlands,
including the majority of the world's populations of the white pelican and the red-breasted goose and 60%
of the world population of the broad billed sandpiper.
The Ecological Corridor also contains undisturbed steppe, Ukraine's most endangered habitat. The
Ukrainian steppe areas in the project region are the main surviving European representatives of Stipa
steppes which range over the Eurasian plains from China to Ukraine. These species-rich communities,
dominated by grasses (Stipa spp., Festuca spp.) and shrubs (Artemisia spp.), support many threatened
plant and animal species. Together, the marine, wetland, and adjoining steppe communities support more
than 100 species found in the Red Data Book of Ukraine and the IUCN Red List. Most of the steppe was
converted to farmland, leaving remnant steppe areas mostly within existing protected areas and on former
military reservations.
Currently, only about 80,000 hectares of the Ramsar sites in the corridor are under adequate protection and
management. The project would extend this to an additional 250,000 hectares and implement needed
related improvements in public education for wetlands conservation and reductions in direct agricultural
impacts to key Ramsar sites. The project would extend protection to 40% of the highest priority Ramsar
sites, including unique wetland communities of the Sivash which are largely unprotected. All of these
proposed investments were identified as priorities under the BanklUNDP-managed Black Sea Environment
Program (BSEP) completed in 1998.
The project falls under the GEF operational program for biodiversity conservation, especially OP2 on
Coastal, Marine, and Freshwater Ecosystems. It is also consistent with the GEF "Integrated Land and
Water Multiple Focal Area Operational Program." The project also achieves two of the four cross-cutting
benefits that define OP 12 - Integrated Ecosystem Management - which was adopted after the project's
upstream approval by the GEF Secretariat in 1998. The project will support in-situ conservation and
sustainable uses through extending protected areas along the Black Sea coast and by promoting on-farm
land use practices for biodiversity conservation objectives. It will contribute to global biodiversity goals,
strengthen protection of migratory species by protecting important feeding grounds along the
Eurasian-African migratory flyway. It will also support conservation and sustainable use of waterbodies
along the coastal zone. The project responds to COP3, COP4 and COP5 guidance by promoting capacity
building, especially for NGOs; promoting conservation and sustainable use through adaptive management
of agricultural landscapes; and promoting conservation through comprehensive ecosystem management
interventions. The project meets the objectives of other international conventions, especially the Bonn
Convention on Migratory Species.
-3 -



The project is also consistent with the Black Sea Danube Strategic Partnership - World Bank-GEF Nutrient
Reduction Investment Fund (NRIF), which would co-finance eligible individual country based projects for
controlling nutrient flows into the Black Sea. In particular, the proposed investments in sustainable
agriculture under the Azov Black Sea Corridor Biodiversity Project, which would improve protection of
high biodiversity Ramsar sites, are potentially also eligible for financing under a proposed Nutrient
Reduction Investment Fund. However, co-financing for this project is not being sought from Nutrient
Reduction Investment Fund (NRIF). The Azov Black Sea Corridor Biodiversity Project was included in
the GEF work program in 1998, before the NRIF was envisioned. The project was, and remains, linked
primarily to the Biodiversity operational program (Coastal, Marine, and Freshwater Ecosystems),
secondarily to the International Waters operational program (Integrated Land and Water Multiple Focal
Area), and most recently, to the Integrated Ecosystem Management operational program.
The project leverages national and international efforts for Ukraine's highest biodiversity conservation
priority, and is part of a broad program that includes the following:
*   The Ukraine Rural Land Titling Project (FY02) is a proposed $60 M IBRD loan, which will issue land
ownership titles to farmers and other rural land owners and help educate farmers about their land
rights. The Rural Land Titling Project and the Azov Black Sea Corridor Project would collaborate
under the land use planning activity to map environmentally important areas (small rivers, forests,
wetlands) around key Ramsar sites in the corridor, educate farmers and local governments about
sustainable uses of these, and build consensus on ownership and use of nonagricultural and marginally
productive agricultural lands within the collective boundaries. The land titling project will also provide
technical assistance to farmers, communities, and government agencies in improved environmental
management, including soil conservation and management of on-farm wetlands and forests.
*   The Ukraine Programmatic Adjustmnent Loan (PAL), which became effective in September 2001, is a
$250 M IBRD adjustment loan covering the main sectors, including environment. The enviromnent
component will improve the use of Ukraine's environmental fund as an economic instrument for
environmental management, and will pilot an integrated program of environmental audits, pollution
compliance monitoring, and improved use of the environmental fund for effecting better pollution
control in the corridor. These activities financed through the PAL will improve the protection of
Ramsar sites in the Sivash and Donetsk coastal areas, where industrial hotspots and other sources of
pollution are found.
*   The project would be implemented with technical assistance from two international NGOs experienced
in wetlands conservation and protected areas management: Wetlands Intemational (financed by the
Government of the Netherlands) and Flora and Fauna International (financed by the U.K. Department
for International Development).
*   Two wetlands conservation projects in Odessa oblast, the western-most oblast in the coastal corridor
(the project region):
* The WWF International Partnership for Wetlands Project, a $3.5 million project on wetlands
restoration in Odessa oblast. This project is part of WWF's Green Danube program, the objective
of which is to improve the interest and commitment to wetland protection and restoration in all
countries of the Danube region. The project is financing development of a plan for wetlands
restoration in Odessa oblast and piloting this in Stenzovsko-Zhebrianski plavni and Sassyk liman,
and related training for oblast govenmment official and technical specialists.
- 4 -



*  The $2 million TACIS Lower Danube Lakes project is preparing an environmental rehabilitation
plan for the Lower Danube Lakes region, focusing on water resources and protection and
management of aquatic habitats. The project is financing monitoring of lake ecology and fish
populations, public education and awareness, improved management of fisheries, support to
environmentally appropriate small businesses, and training in water resources management and
fisheries.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The coastal landscape and natural habitats of the project region have been degraded over the last 50 years
as a result of three main factors: large scale conversion of wetlands and steppe communities to farmland
and other land uses; pollution and associated eutrophication; and poor land use planning and integration of
environmental issues into regional development. However, coastal ecosystems that are unique to Europe
are still found on the Ukrainian coasts of the Black and Azov seas.
The overarching environmental sector issue is how to ensure the sustainable use and biological integrity of
these coastal ecosystems under economic and social pressures. Twenty five percent of Ukraine's
population of 50 million people live in the six southern territories (oblasts) that border the Black Sea and
the Sea of Azov (from west to east, Odessa, Mykolaiv, Kherson, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea,
Zaporizhia, and Donetsk), and 7 million of these live in the immediate coastal zone. Agriculture is the
dominant land use in the coastal zone, with major industrial development (mainly iron and coal) in Donetsk
oblast. Approximately 350,000 people live in the rural communities in the project region in Kherson,
Zaporizhia, and Donetsk oblasts and Crimea, most of which make use of the region's natural resources
(through farmiing, grazing, fisheries, and hunting) for income and subsistence.
Government is working to reverse the degradation of the Black Sea in accordance with its responsibilities
under the Bucharest Convention and as an executing agency of the Black Sea Environment Program.
Ukraine's activities are coordinated by the Ministxy of Environment and Natural Resources (MENR),
which was created in 1991 to administer environmental programs and policies throughout Ukraine.
Through MENR, the Government is coordinating national, regional, and local efforts in the Black Sea
region related to natural resource management, coastal protection and integrated coastline management, air
and water pollution, environmental monitoring and environmental impact assessments, capacity building
and public awareness. Goverrnment is addressing the following issues in the project region:
Conversion of wetlands to farmland and other land uses. During the Soviet era, large areas of wetlands and
nearly all of the native steppe on the coast of the Black and Azov Sea coast were converted to farmland.
Since then, Govemment has: (i) adopted a regulatory framework to implement the Convention on
Biological Diversity; (ii) built greater support within government, especially among oblast governments, for
environmental protection; (iii) established partnerships on environmental issues with governmental and
nongovernmental organizations elsewhere in Europe; and (iv) expanded the area of natural ecosystems
under protection to nearly 4% of the country and drafted a protected area plan for the project region. The
proposed improvements to the protected area plan includes priority Ramsar sites covered under the project.
Pollution and eutrophication of the Black Sea. Pollution from point sources (e.g., from municipal
wastewater, industry, and shipping) and non-point sources (e.g., agricultural runoff) contribute to the
degradation of coastal ecosystems in the project region. The Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis
completed under the Black Sea Environment Program (BSEP) concluded that high levels of phosphates,
nitrates, and other nutrients in the rivers flowing into the Black Sea are a main cause of eutrophication.
- 5 -



Agricultural run-off accounts for up to one-half of nitrogen loads in these rivers. The MENR has been
working since 1996 to improve its regulatory framework for pollution monitoring and control. The first
step was to simplify its system of environTmental standards and bring them closer to those in use in the EU.
The second was a Local Environmental Management Program in Donetsk Oblast in the Black Sea region, a
pilot activity which introduced modem regulatory approaches and training in air and water quality and
waste management to Donetsk, one of Ukraine's most polluted regions. These two activities, which were
implemented with the assistance of Bank-financed Institutional Development Fund, laid a foundation for
lending operations in pollution control.
Government has prepared two projects that address the pollution and eutrophication problems:
*   The Bank-fnanced $250 million Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL, FY02) includes an
environment component to improve economic and regulatory mechanisms for reducing pollution. It
will implement an effective "polluter pays" program through adoption of an integrated pollution
permitting and monitoring system which: (i) increases revenues; (ii) introduces new incentives to the
private sector to introduce best available pollution control technologies; and (iii) improves the success
and transparency of the public sector's programs for pollution abatement and energy/resource
efficiency in the industrial sector; and
*  The Ukraine Rural Land Titling project, for which a Bank loan of $60 million is proposed, will assist
the Government of Ukraine in the next steps of farm privatization by providing cadastre and title
registration services, as well as technical assistance in the environmental management of farmland.
The GEF-World Bank Nutrient Reduction Fund is part of an overall Strategic Partnership for Nutrient
Reduction of the Black Sea and Danube involving other GEF Implementing Agencies and regional partners.
This project would co-finance eligible investment projects in wetlands rehabilitation, wastewater or point
source pollution controls, and improved agricultural practices to address non-point sources of nutrient
runoff. The first tranche of $20 million is fnancing projects on a 'first-come, first-served' basis, starting
with projects in Bulgaria (wetlands restoration), Russia (wastewater pollution control) and Romania
(agricultural runoff abatement). Ukraine has not yet requested a project under the Nutrient Reduction Fund,
but is currently developing preliminary proposals that would be discussed with the Bank and GEF in the
coming year.
Weak financing for environmental protection. The economic downtum since Ukraine's independence in
1991 has restricted both state and private sector financing foi environmental protection. The MENR's
regional inspectorates collect pollution fines which the MENR and regional governments use for
environmental investments. The MENR's strategy is to improve the management and impact of these
investments for reducing pollution. To achieve this, Government has included an environmental protection
component in the Bank-financed $250 million Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL), as described in the
previous paragraph.
Mainstreaming biodiversity conservation into regional development. Government has taken important steps
toward improved environmental management in recent years, giving broad powers to the MENR to
facilitate implementation of Ukraine's obligations under the Convention on Biological Diversity (1996), the
Convention on the Protection of the Black Sea Against Pollution (1994), and the Ramsar and Bern
Conventions (1996), producing environmental strategies and investment plans for biodiversity conservation,
sustainable development of the Black Sea region, and phasing out of chlorofluorocarbons and other
ozone-depleting substances. Ukraine is also active in the Council of Europe and is implementing the
Pan-European Biological and Landscape Diversity Strategy. Government has worked to mainstream
- 6 -



biodiversity conservation objectives in its development agenda by building capacity in its staff to update
and implement its: (i) environmental regulatory framework, and (ii) make better use of limited government
financing. These include the following:
*   The Strategy for Conservation of Biological Diversity in Ukraine, approved by the Cabinet of
Ministers in 1997. The strategy identifies four main objectives: (i) conservation of natural ecosystems,
landscape components, and habitats of some species; (ii) promoting sustainable use of natural
resources; (iii) strengthening public awareness and the involvement of local communities in
conservation activities; and (iv) strengthening responsibility for biodiversity conservation, especially
the responsibilities of institutions, organizations, land users, companies, and individuals.
*   The program for Protection and Rehabilitation of the Enviromnent of the Azov and Black Sea, adopted
by the Cabinet of Ministers in 1998, to obtain financing for pollution monitoring and regulation,
protection of natural habitats, and facilitation of coastal zone management.
*   The Law on the Program of Forming the National Ecological Network for 2000-2015 was adopted in
2000, which provides financial and political support for the creation of new protected areas and for
ecological corridors connecting these.
-   The Danube Delta Biodiversity Project, which was satisfactorily completed in 1999, and which
provided many useful lessons regarding management of wetland ecosystems and involvement of local
communities in the design of this operation.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Conversion of wetland habitats to agricultural and other land uses. During preparation, a draft coastal
protected area plan for the project region was prepared which identified the highest priority sites of global
biodiversity significance to be protected against further conversions. Extensive consultations were held
with local communities and resource users on designating the highest priority areas of this plan as regional
landscape parks (under oblast management) or national parks (under national management), to be financed
under the project. The Project will work with the Rural Land Titling project to clarify ownership and
management responsibilities lands having high conservation value, and to provide assistance in
implementing environmentally appropriate farm practices.
Pollution and eutrophication of the Black Sea. The Project would demonstrate best farming practices
which reduce off-site impacts from erosion and pollution and protect on-farm biodiversity values, and
replicate the lessons learned in other farms in the project region. The Project would be assisted in this
activity by technical studies, consultations with farmers and local communities, and on-farm environmental
management practices to be implemented in the project region under the Rural Land Titling project (US$60
million IBRD project). The Project's linkage with the Programmatic Adjustment Loan will contribute to
improved pollution control and monitoring practices in the project region.
Weak financing for environmental protection. Technical assistance in income earning activities and the
design and implementation of transparent financial management systems would be coordinated with the
activities to reform environmental permitting, monitoring, and financing under the Programmatic
Adjustment Loan (PAL). The project would also assist the protected areas in promoting tourism and other
income generating activities that would be used to co-finance the protected areas' recurrent operating costs.
- 7 -



Mainstreaming biodiversity conservation into regional development. The Project would empower local and
regional authorities, farmners, and other stakeholders in promoting biodiversity conservation through: (i)
participatory management of natural resources within the project's protected areas, (ii) promoting multiple
resource use in protected areas management, with technical assistance to user groups on sustainable uses of
natural resources; (iii) assisting fanners to implement best practices in sustainable agriculture; and (iv)
assisting raion and oblast authorities to prepare and implement land use plans which integrate
environmental objectives.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project region spans the coastal corridor bordering the Black Sea and Sea of Azov in the steppe zone
of southem Ukraine. This region possesses flat terrain and fertile chemozem soils, and natural complexes
of wetlands and upland habitats of local and global importance. The coastal zone is predominantly (80%)
agricultural in land use and the population of about 7 million people live largely in municipalities. Urban
and rural development is spread more or less evenly between the main municipalities of Odessa and
Donetsk, a distance of about 700 km. Approximately 350,000 people live around the project's existing and
proposed protected areas in Kherson, Zaporizhia, and Donetsk oblasts and Crimea. Nearly one-half of
those surveyed for the Social Assessment depend on natural resources (e.g., farming, grazing, and fisheries)
for income and subsistence and for 28%, agriculture is the primary source of household income. The rural
population are primary users of land and water resources, are aware of the problems of environmental
degradation in the region, and are supportive of environmental initiatives which do not interfere
significantly with their livelihoods.
The project would support an integrated program of protected areas management, sustainable agriculture,
land use planning, and public education to promote biodiversity conservation in the corridor. The
investments of the Azov Black Sea Corridor Biodiversity Conservation project would be concentrated in
the central part of the corridor around three protected areas under the management of national
Governnment: (i) the proposed Sivash National Park in Crimea, part of a 250,000 hectare (ha) lagoon
complex along the Azov Sea; (ii) Chomormorsky Biosphere Reserve in Kherson oblast, an 89,000 ha
protected area of brackish wetlands and steppe; and (iii) the proposed Preazovsky National Park, a 63,000
ha area of limans and steppe in Zaporizhia oblast. The project would also support biodiversity
conservation in two regional landscape parks, which are under the management of oblast government.
The investments of the WWF-financed Partners for Wetlands Project ($3.5 million) and the TACIS Lower
Danube Lakes project ($2 million) are concentrated in Odessa oblast, the westem-most oblast of the
corridor.
The Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources would be the Executing Agency. The oblast offices
of the MENR would facilitate project implementation at the local level and would supervise investments in
protected areas (to be implemented by MENR, Academy of Sciences, and oblast governments as agencies
responsible for protected areas), sustainable agriculture (to be implemented mainly by farmers through
NGO-run small grants program), and public education (to be implemented by NGOs and local schools
and universities).
-8-



Indicative          Bank      % of     GEF      % of
Component                Sector        Costs     % of   financing    Bank   financing    GEF
(USsM)   Total   (US$M)  financing  (US$M)  financing
1. Support Protected Areas                        7.91     24.3    0.50        3.1     3.31     48.0
Management
2. Support Protected Area and                     6.04      18.6    4.00      25.0     0.61      8.8
Corridor Planning
3. Build Capacity and Support                     7.15     22.0    4.00       25.0     1.27     18.4
for Biodiversity Conservation
4. Demonstrate Biodiversity                       9.28      28.6    7.50      46.9     0.84     12.2
Friendly Agriculture Practices
5. Project Management and                         2.12      6.5    0.00        0.0     0.87     12.6
Information Dissemination
Total Project Costs                     32.50     100.0   16.00     100.0     6.90    100.0
0.00      0.0    0.00        0.0     0.00      0.0
Total Financing Required                     32.50     100.0   16.00      100.0     6.90    100.0
(Note: Bank financing under Components 1-4 includes US$16 million in associated IBRD funds; Components 1-5 include $9.6
million in financing from other sources.)
The project activities would be implemented within the coastal corridor of Ukraine on the Azov and Black
seas as follows:
Component 1. Support Protected Areas Management. The Project would irnplement improved
management measures at priority marine and terrestrial protected areas in the corridor through: (i)
creation or expansion of protected areas at the proposed Sivash (priority parts of its 200,000 hectares of
open water, mudflats and saltmarshes) and Preazovsky (100,000 hectares of bays and coastal wetlands)
national parks; (ii) preparation and implementation of management plans for these protected areas and
three existing protected area (Chomormorsky Biosphere Reserve; 89,000 hectares; and Granite Steppe
Pobuzhia and Meotida regional landscape parks); and (iii) professional development for park staff in
protected areas administration and management planning, wetland and waterbird ecology and
management, warden skills, and visitor management.
Wetlands Intemational (financed by the Govemment of the Netherlands) and Flora and Fauna
Intemational (financed by the U.K. Know How Fund) will provide technical assistance for management
plan preparation, and related technical and social inputs to the management planning process. The WWF
Partners for Wetlands project, supported by the Government of the Netherlands, is supporting wetlands
restoration in Odessa oblast, including within existing protected areas such as the Ukraine Danube Delta
Biosphere Reserve, and areas not included in the protected area network but of high biodiversity value,
such as Sasyk liman. The Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL) will reform the management of the
environment fund, an important source of discretionary funding for Ukraine's environmental priorities,
including biodiversity conservation and protected areas management.
Component 2. Support Protected Area and Corridor Planning. The project would develop and
implement a corridor conservation strategy for maintaining the corridor's ecological function, based on the
following activities: (i) identify and prioritize key natural areas and ecological functions and their
management requirements, through remote-sensing assisted inventories of natural habitats; (ii) establish a
-9-



monitoring system of biodiversity in the corridor, focusing on indicators of ecosystem health such as
migratory waterbird numbers as indicators of flyway function; (iii) finalize the coastal protected area plan,
expanding the protected area plan developed under project preparation to expand areas under local
(oblast) management and identifying the roles of protected areas in local economies and financing needs
for their long-term operation that emphasizes cost recovery mechanisms; and (iv) prepare land use plans
in selected raions to identify natural areas which contribute significantly to the corridor's ecological
function the protection of which should be ensured by regional authorities, and to identify needs to
mainstream biodiversity conservation objectives into regional development plans. The implementation of
the recommendations under these planning activities would be evaluated for implementation under the
small grants program under component 3 of the project.
The Ukraine Rural Land Titling Project and the Azov Black Sea Corridor Project would map
environmentally important areas (small rivers, forests, wetlands) around key Ramsar sites in the corridor,
educate farmers and local govemments about sustainable uses of these, and build consensus on ownership
and use of nonagricultural and marginally productive agricultural lands within the now-privatized farm
collectives. The WWF Partner for Wetlands project is working with local and regional governments to
develop a wetlands policy plan, to be incorporated into land use plans in Odessa oblast, and will
collaborate with the Azov Black Sea corridor, Rural Land Titling, and TACIS Lower Danube Lakes
projects in developing options for sustainable land uses around protected areas and Ramsar sites in
Odessa oblast.
Component 3. Build Capacity and Support for Biodiversity Conservation. The Project would build
awareness of and support for wetlands conservation through an environmental education program and
implement a competitive small grants program to support the implementation of practical conservation
measures by local communities, NGOs, and individuals. This component would also support regional and
international cooperation in wetlands conservation and waterfowl flyway management through regional
exchange programs and by two regional conferences on wetland and waterbird conservation. The
Programmatic Adjustment Loan will build capacity for improved pollution monitoring and permitting
systems in the project region, which will benefit natural habitats affected by industrial pollution,
particularly in the Donetsk region.
Component 4. Demonstrate biodiversity friendly agriculture practices. The Azov Black Sea Corridor
project and the Rural Land Titling Project will work together to assess the environmental management
needs of lands within the forner collective farm, including soils conservation and management of on-farm
wetlands. The projects will also evaluate the feasibility of developing conservation easements, with
favorable tax incentives, for environmentally sensitive, marginal agricultural lands. Ukrainian
agricultural, land management, and environmental institutes will carry out these assessments for each
former collective, and incorporate the results into the land titling outputs. The corridor project will also
implement sustainable agriculture practices at the farm and landscape levels, working through a
competitive small grants programs for improved on-farm management practices which have direct
biodiversity conservation benefits for the priority protected areas in the corridor. The Project would fund:
(i) works, goods and services to improve management and protection of riparian areas and other natural
habitats, and improved management of soils, livestock and livestock waste in buffer zones around the
Project Ramsar sites; and (ii) technical or other services by agricultural institutes, fanners/farmer
associations, and NGOs to provide training or to disseminate the techniques and lessons leamed.
The WWF Partners for Wetlands and the TACIS Lower Danube Lakes project will assist with the
development of organic agriculture in Odessa oblast, and promote the establishment of European markets
for agricultural products.
- 10 -



Component 5. Project Management and Information Dissemination. The project would finance the
operating costs of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) which reports to the Ministry of Environment and
Natural Resources. The PIU will be responsible for contracting for the delivery of goods, works, and
consultant services to implement the project. It would also develop a communications support system to
serve individuals and organizations engaged in Project implementation and other stakeholders interested in
project activities, and would monitor and evaluate project implementation. The communications and
information dissemination activities will be co-financed by the Government of Denmark, through its
development assistance organization Danida.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Although coastal areas in Ukraine enjoy nominal support by conservation regulations, land use zoning and
protection are still in the formative stages. Prior to independence, land use planning was carried out by
central institutes in Kiev, and implemented by oblast and rayon governments. Since independence, land
use planning has stalled as a result of low budgets and uncertain land tenure and govemance issues.
Oblast governments are seen as capable of filling this gap in public sector assistance in land use planning,
and there is a growing need for progress on this issue as land privatization leads to problems with
incompatible land uses. The project would facilitate a consultative process for land use planning and
support decentralized decision making by local and regional governments.
3. Benefits and target population:
The target populations include stakeholders broadly responsible for sustainable development in the project
region, including, farmers, hunters and fishermen, NGOs, and government staff of national, regional and
local governments responsible for nature conservation. The benefits include:
Environmental: The project would promote improved protection and sustainable use of over 250,000
hectares of wetlands on the Black and Azov Sea coasts, reduce soil and nutrient runoff from farms to
adjoining Ramsar sites, and build capacity of NGOs, local communities and Government to improve
environmental protection programs. The project would have a positive global benefit by protecting coastal
and marine landscapes, numerous threatened endemic species, and conserving and enhancing the region's
function as a globally important feeding ground for migratory waterbirds and other species.
Social: The project will empower local communities to participate in the protection and sustainable use of
resources within the project region, especially in protected areas.
Institutional: The project will improve the performance and transparency of the Ministry of Environment
and Natural Resources and other governmental organizations engaged in the management of coastal natural
resources (mainly land and water bio-resources), and promote regional cooperation among governmental
and nongovernmental institutions engaged in management of flyway resources. It will also build capacity
in local institutions in land use planning.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Institutional Arrangements
Executing Agency, central project management: The Executing Agency would be the Ministry of
Environment and Natural Resources (MENR). The MENR would have overall responsibility for project
coord&nation, contracting a Project Implementation Unit (PIU), and supervising project progress. The
MENR would facilitate collaboration and cooperation with other ministries, institutions and agencies, and
- 11 -



its environment departments in the corridor would be responsible for integrating project activities at the
oblast level.
Regional project management. Each oblast Department of Environment and Natural Resources
participating in the project would designate one part-time staff member to manage the land use planning
activities under component 1, provide assistance on the protected areas planning activities and agricultural
activities under components I and 3, respectively, and facilitate communication among other departments
at oblast level and cooperation with other oblasts. The oblast managers would also develop local
networking arrangements to ensure that all local stakeholders including local communities and NGOs are
involved in project implementation.
Advisorv functions. The MENR will maintain a Project Steering Committee (PSC) to review project
progress, advise and assist in resolving obstacles to project implementation, and assist in maintaining
cooperation among the stakeholders at the national and local levels. The PSC would be comprised of the
MENR's project manager, and representatives from the following: Central Board for Nature Conservation
within MENR, Crimea State Committee for Environmental Protection, oblast governments, and Scientific
Advisory Committee. A Scientific Advisory Committee (SAC) would review and endorse activities
related to the project's scientific program, including the TORs, workplans, and outputs for management
plans, territorial organization documents, and applied research. The SAC would be comprised of
representatives of the MENR, Academy of Sciences, Agrarian Academy, and Land Resources Committee,
representatives of oblasts (Department of Environment and Natural Resources or other qualified and
authorized representative) and the director of the PIU.
Local advisory committees (LAC) would advise the MENR and protected areas administration on
protected areas and agriculture activities, to improve the usefulness of the investments and to ensure that
local stakeholder opinions and concems are heard in management planning process. The LACs would
include representatives of local resource user groups, farmers, agricultural departments of the rayon and
oblast governments, local agricultural research and training institutions oblast and rayon government,
local communities, ethnic groups and NGOs. The LAC would (i) review and endorse project planning
documents (terms of reference for protected area management plans, farm plans, small grants guidelines);
(ii) review implementation progress of the protected areas and sustainable agriculture components, and
advise the main stakeholders on adaptive changes in the program based on the results.
Central and regional project implementation assistance. A central PIU located in Kiev and acting under
contract to the MENR would be responsible for procurement, accounting, financial reporting and auditing.
The PIU is currently Interecocentre, a nonprofit NGO with extensive experience administering Bank
projects. The PIU will be responsible for (i) procurement of goods and services; (ii) assisting the
protected areas and oblast staff to prepare annual work programns and budgets, and (iii) coordinating the
delivery of technical assistance. The PIU would establish small regional offices in Melitopol, Kherson,
and Simferopol (AR Crimea) and provide training and oversight to these on procurement and financial
management. The regional PIU offices would be responsible for procurement of goods, works, and
services at the local level, under the management of the central PIU. The Project Implementation Plan
further describes the responsibilities of the individual regional PIUs.
Implementation arrangements for sustainable agriculture activities. The implementation arrangements for
the sustainable agriculture component areas follows:
* The training program in sustainable agriculture would be the responsibility of the Kherson Agricultural
Institute, which provides extension services. The PIU would provide additional technical assistance to
- 12 -



the farms through consultancies on specific topics. Prior to their implementation, the training program
would be reviewed and endorsed by an advisory group with representatives from the PIU, MENR and
oblast government offices.
*  The competitive small grants program would be managed by an NGO selected through a competitive
process. The guidelines would be reviewed and endorsed by the Local Advisory Committees.
Project Phasing
The project would be implemented over five years, starting with a coordinated implementation of activities
within two focal areas: Chomomorsky and Sivash. Within these two areas, the project would develop and
assess sustainable agriculture activities, support protected area management planning, and develop coastal
land use plans, and integrate these land use plans into a strategic management framework for these
regions. Based on the results and lessons learned from the project's experience in the focal areas, the
project would be extended to the other parts of the corridor.
Financial Management
Financial Management Assessment: Responsibility for the financial management of the project will be
that of InterEcoCentre (CPIU), a nongovernmental charitable organization established in 1998, and
operating as a PTU for several Bank-sponsored projects. The BankA/BRD conducted a financial
management assessment of the CPIU and at the time of appraisal confirmed that it does not satisfy the
Bank's/IBRD's minimum financial management requirements at this time. In particular the following
areas were addressed prior to Board presentation, each of which has been completed: (i) the preparation
of a draft accounting manual; (ii) the development of a revised spreadsheet system to enable the CPIU to
prepare Project Management Reports (PMRs) lA (Source and Uses of Funds), lB (Uses of Funds by
Project Activity) and lE (Special Account Statement); (iii) the selection of the bank in which the Special
Accounts will be housed and thus the finalization of the project's flow of funds; (iv) the finalization of the
audit terms of reference; and (v) the presentation to the Bank/lBRD of a short-list of auditors acceptable
to the Bank/IBRD. During project negotiations, the recipient confirmed its intention to move to
PMR-based disbursements by the beginning of 2003. An action plan to enable PMR-based disbursements
has been agreed.
Project Management Reports (PMRs): Project management-oriented PMRs will be used for project
monitoring and supervision. The formats of the PMRs have been drafted and will be confirmed during
Negotiations. The PIU will produce a full set of PMRs for every calendar quarter throughout the life of
the project beginning with the period ending 18 months after Board presentation. However, the financial
PMRs lA, IB and lE, as well as the four procurement PMRs, 3A, 3B, 3C and 3D, will be produced from
project effectiveness.
Disbursements: Project funds will be disbursed under the Bank's/IBRD's established procedures,
including Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). During project negotiations, the recipient confirned its
intention to move to PMR-based disbursements by the beginning of 2003. An action plan to enable
PMR-based disbursements has been agreed.
Audit Arrangements: Audits by independent auditors on terms of reference acceptable to the Bank will be
conducted throughout project implementation of: the project financial statements; Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs), or PMRs if used as the basis of disbursement; Special Accounts; and the
Interecocentre. the Bank has cleared the audit terms of reference and the PIU has submitted a short-list of
- 13-



auditors acceptable to the Bank/IBRD. The audits will be procured by the PIU through Least-Cost
Selection. Selection of the project's auditors is a condition of project effectiveness. The audited financial
statements / reports together with the auditor's reports and opinions will be presented to the Bank no later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year and also at the closing of the project. The contract for the
audit will be extended from year-to-year with the same auditor, subject to satisfactory performance. The
cost of the audit will be financed from the proceeds of the GEF Grant as an incremental operating cost.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
Project monitoring would be the responsibility of the PIU and the MENR. The PIU and MENR would
furnish the Bank with reports on a regular basis including: (a) quarterly progress and project financial
management reports; (b) interim unaudited statements of project accounts; and (c) additional informnation
that the Bank may request from time to time.
Performance monitoring and evaluation would be undertaken by the MENR to ensure close monitoring
of the achievements of project objectives during implementation. Key performance indicators proposed
for monitoring can be found in Annex 1. A mid-term evaluation would be prepared during year three of
the project. Lessons learned from implementation and the activities financed under the project would be
captured in a synthesis report prepared by the borrower with the assistance of the Bank.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The project's activities are based on the Black Sea Strategic Action Plan, developed under the GEF-funded
Black Sea Environment Program, which was completed in 1996. The project concept was initiated in
several workshops by the MENR, Academy of Sciences, and NGOs, and later developed with other
stakeholders. During preparation, the main altemative considered was to focus the project on protected
areas only. This alternative was rejected because by focusing only on Protected Areas, the project would
lose an opportunity to address unsustainable agricultural practices on farms surrounding the high
biodiversity Ramsar wetlands and upland steppe communities in the corridor. Because impacts from
agriculture are one of the greatest threats to biodiversity in the project region, it was essential that the
project be able to assist farms to reduce agricultural impacts to these sites and to incorporate
biodiversity-friendly practices into farning practices.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                  (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Environmental regulation reform   Strengthening Local
Environmental Management in
Donetsk Oblast (IDF;
completed)
Environmental Policy
Development (IDF; completed)
Environmental policy and financing    Programmatic Adjustment
- 14 -



reform                            Lending (PAL) project (under
preparation)
Biodiversity conservation         Danube Delta Biodiversity        S             S
Project (GEF/Bank, completed)
Transcarpathian Biodiversity     S             S
Protection Project (completed)
Regional Black Sea               S             S
Environment Program
(GEF/Bank/UNDP, completed)
National Biodiversity
Strategy/Action Plan
Sustainable agriculture and rural  Poland Rural Environmental      S             S
environmental protection          Protection Project
Other development agencies
Danish Environmental Protection   Water Supply and Wastewater
Agency                            Treatment Rehabilitation in
Crimea and Sevastopol
TACIS                            Enviromnental Program for the
Danubian River Basin
USAID                             Biodiversity Support Program
(completed)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The lessons learned from other GEF-financed activities, including the Danube Delta Biodiversity project
and the Black Sea Environment Program, and from other environmental projects in the region, include the
need to: (i) obtain support for policy and regulatory interventions at a high enough level to pave the way
for the project activities, the majority of which occur at the local level; (ii) maintain support for building
capacity in the MENR, but emphasize its regional offices; (iii) increase the involvement of NGOs; (iv)
build on the experience of existing PIUs to take advantage of their knowledge and networking; (v) improve
the linkage between conservation and socioeconomic development; and (vi) build ownership of the project
locally through public awareness and involvement in project design and implementation.
The project has been designed with the above lessons in mind. The MENR, which gives full support to this
project, has been strengthened in recent years, in part through GEF-flmded activities, resulting in
improvements in environmental management. The project would further strengthen the MENR and the
Crimean State Committee for Environment and Natural Resources by building capacity for improved
environmental and conservation management. The project will also strengthen NGO involvement in
conservation management. NGOs will be contracted to develop and manage the environmental education
component and will be eligible to receive support for conservation activities through the small grants
program. The PIU that will manage the project is an environmental NGO and has previous experience
managing GEF projects in the country. The project will build ownership and support for the project
objectives by involving local stakeholders in development and finalization of the protected area
management plans and oblast land use plans. During preparation, local resource users asked that
sustainable development rather than strict protection be emphasized under the project. In response,
- 15-



protected areas supported under the project will be zoned for both protection and multiple-use.
Additionally, the project will encourage sustainable resource use in and around the protected areas,
including support for improved agricultural practices at farms that border critical protected areas and
wetland sites.
The principal recommendations from the STAP review have been incorporated into the project design as
follows:
i) Develop a clear definition of the role of NGOs in the project, and one that is linked operationally
to the role and outputs of the MENR and other governmental participants. The Project
Implementation Unit would be run by national NGO. The project would engage NGOs in
environmental education, biodiversity monitoring, and in technical surveys and studies, which
would be used by the MENR and the Ministry of Education.
ii) Address more fully the problems and opportunities of land ownership changes for biodiversity
conservation. The farms in Ukraine have been privatized, with the exception of those under the
management of state agricultural institutes. Most privatized farms are managed as joint stock
companies, with each owner holding shares in the enterprise. A minority of privatized farms are
owned and operated by individual farmers. The project would engage both types of privatized
farms and appropriate agricultural institutes in integrating biodiversity conservation into farm
management. Land privatization is also occurring for non-farm areas. The project would identify
natural areas which, due to their ecological importance, should receive some form of protection
irrespective of their ownership. The Project would also collaborate with the proposed Rural Land
Titling Project (IBRD) under the land use planning activity to map environmentally important
areas (small rivers, forests, wetlands) around key Ramsar sites in the corridor, educate farmers and
local governments about sustainable uses of these, and build consensus on ownership and use of
non-agricultural and marginally productive agricultural lands within the collective boundaries.
iii) Fully consider the opportunity for project activities on military lands that are now being
considered for conversion to civilian purposes. Public uses of military lands in the project region
are constrained by problems such as buried ordinance and chemicals. The review of corridor
assets under component 2 would include a review of the opportunities and advantages for wildlife,
and the problems, of converting military lands to non-military purposes. The use of such areas as
protected areas may require that visitor use be prohibited or greatly restricted. This issue, and
associated questions of environmental liability, would be explored under the project.
iv) Select model municipalities to initiate implementation of the project, to be followed by
implementation in other areas based on lessons learned. The project would be implemented first in
two focal areas: Chomomorsky and Sivash. Within these two areas, the project would develop and
assess sustainable agriculture activities, support protected area management planning, and develop
coastal land use plans, and integrate these land use plans into a strategic management framework
for these regions. Based on the results and lessons learned from the project's experience in the
focal areas, the project would be extended to the other parts of the corridor; and
v) Focus quickly on moving beyond planning to achievement of practical results. The project
would achieve practical results in the two focal areas early in project implementation.
- 16-



4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
Ukraine has been working within its financial constraints to address issues related to environmental
management of the Black Sea, especially with regards to pollution control, biodiversity conservation and
coastal zone management. Ukraine ratified and is implementing the Bucharest Convention on the
Protection of the Black Sea Against Pollution, the Bonn, Bern and Ramsar Conventions, and the Agreement
on the Conservation of African-Eurasian Migratory Waterbirds. Ukraine's commitment and ownership of
the Project and its issues are indicated by the following:
*   In 1998 the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approved a program for the Protection and Rehabilitation
of the Environment of the Azov and Black Sea, the objectives of which are to: (i) reduce pollutant
discharges to coastal waters; (ii) improve the protection of natural habitats and biodiversity; (iii) adopt
improved environmental monitoring and EIA procedures for coastal developments; (iv) facilitate
preparation of integrated coastal zone management plans; and (v) involve the public in the protection
and rehabilitation of coastal ecosystems.
*   During Project preparation, the Law on the State Program of Formation of the National Ecological
Network for 2000-2015 of Ukraine was adopted. This law identifies the new protected areas to be
created under the Project and the ecological corridors that connect them, and secures additional state
co-financing for their creation and operation.
*   The Government has agreed to provide co-financing under the proposed $60M Rural Land Titling
Project (IBRD) to protect environmentally important areas (small rivers, forests, wetlands) in
agricultural lands surrounding key Ramsar sites in the corridor. The Government has also included an
environmental protection component in the Bank-financed $250M Programmatic Adjustment Loan
(PAL) -- a reform program for promoting sustained economic growth, reducing poverty, and improving
environmental protection. A key theme of the PAL reform program is to develop an environmental
permnit system which: (i) improves incentives to reduce pollution and adopt sustainable natural resource
management practices, and (ii) is integrated with an environmental financing system that seeks full
payment for pollution (the "polluter pays" principle).
* All levels of government (national, regional, and local) participated in the project design and
implementation arrangements.
*   Two Project sites are Regional Landscape Parks, which are created and managed by oblast
government. For both, oblast governments have financed creation of the parks and are co-financing
their operation.
*   Ukraine's successful completion of several GEF-financed activities also indicate its commitment to the
project. These include the National Biodiversity Strategy/Action Plan (1998), Transcarpathian
Biodiversity Protection Project (US$0.5M, 1998), and Danube Delta Biodiversity Protection Project
(US$1.5M, 1999).
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
GEF support is warranted because of the global significance of the Azov-Black Sea coastal zone and the
need for incremental financing for its long-term protection. Without GEF support it would not be possible
to implement the conservation actions needed for this globally significant area. The GEF adds value
through its global experience on the design, implementation, and financing of biodiversity conservation
- 17-



projects. GEF support is justified by the global significance of the biodiversity of the Azov-Black Sea
coastal region, the existing threats to ecosystem integrity and species survival, and the commitment of the
government to implementing the project. GEF-supported initiatives have helped to foster greater
collaboration between government agencies and NGOs in project preparation.
The Bank adds value to the project through its experience in Ukraine and the region, and the ability to link
the project with two other Bank-managed projects: (i) the Rural Land Titling Project, which will provide
land titles to the former collective (now privatized) farms and (ii) the Programmatic Adjustment Loan,
which will focus on the policy and financial framework for pollution reduction. The Bank has been an
active partner with Ukraine on environmental initiatives since its independence. This experience includes
assistance with preparation of a review of environmental problems and priorities (Suggested Environmental
Priorities, 1993), the Ukraine National Biodiversity Strategy/Action Plan, institutional strengthening in
environmental regulatory policy (through two Institutional Development Fund grants), protected areas
management (through the Danube Delta and Transcarpathian Biodiversity Protection GEF projects), and
development of investment proposals to implement the Black Sea Environment Program. The Bank's
experience in Ukraine will help ensure cooperation between regional and national programs. Value-added
of Bank support includes technical support for preparation, supervision capacity, development of linkages
with other sources of expertise and funding.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
l Incremental Cost
O Other (specify)
Incremental costs are estimated to cover project expenditure on components that have global benefits.
Project activities that will yield global benefits are eligible for GEF financing. The incremental costs
represent those activities that achieve global enviromnental benefits by (i) strengthening protected areas
management; (ii) supporting protected area and corridor planning, including land-use planning and
monitoring; (iii) building capacity and awareness in biodiversity conservation through environmental
education and public awareness programs; and (iv) demonstrating biodiversity friendly agriculture
practices. National and oblast governments are committed to financing US$1.7 million and USS0.4
million, respectively, for the GEF altemative, and counterpart financing requirements for the small grants
program and contributions from private donors would provide an additional US$0.3 million for the GEF
altemative. The U.S. Govemment, UK Know How Fund, Dutch Govemment, Danish Govemnent, EC
TACIS program and World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) are providing a total of US$7.2 million to
complement GEF funding. Additionally, GEF funds are leveraging US$16.0 million in associated IBRD
funds, under the Programmatic Adjustment Loan and the Land Privatization Project. The GEF grant
contribution to achieve the project's incremental biodiversity benefits would be US$6.9 million.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
Not applicable
Fiscal Impact:
The creation of new protected areas involve infrastructure and staffing costs above the current baseline.
The staff of national parks are financed by the state budget and operating costs and other investments,
- 18 -



including counterpart financing under the project, may be financed through the MENR's environmental
fund. Regional Landscape Parks (RLPs) are financed by oblast governments and potential "corporate"
sponsors. The project promotes the use of RLPs to achieve the project's conservation objective because
they are decentralized; they have strong ownership from oblast (regional) authorities; and because they
reduce the project's dependence on state budget.
The Government financial contribution to the project would be US$ 1.7 million, including US$ 1.01 million
for taxes and US$0.66 million for incremental staff and recurrent costs for the two new national parks.
Oblast governments would contribute US$0.4 million for staff and recurrent costs of the two Regional
Landscape Parks to receive support under the project. Spread over five years of the project, the fiscal
impact of the Government's incremental contribution would be minimal.
3. Technical:
The sustainable agriculture component would introduce improved technologies and approaches to farm
management. This would include the use of equipment (e.g., conservation tillage plows) and
remote-sensing and economic applications to farm management which are not in wide use in Ukraine today.
The farms and agriculture institute which participated in project preparation were familiar with and
supportive of these tools, but lacked practical experience in their use. The project would provide the
training and technical support for farners and extension specialists to use these tools approaches, and
co-finance equipment purchases.
The project will promote creativity and innovation in the use of information technologies for inventory and
monitoring environmental trends, solving ecological problems, and developing analyses and tools to be used
by local stakeholders to promote sustainable resource use. The capacity and facilities for this work has
been developed in the Ukrainian Land and Resource Management Center (ULRMC) through a US$5
million grant from USAID to ULRMC for using information technologies in environmental management
and public health (e.g., imagery analysis, GIS, and landscape modeling on flood emergencies, oil spills, and
health epidemics). The Project would build on the technical capacity developed under the USAID project.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Executing Agency would be the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (MENR). The
MENR's Department of Protection, Use and Restoration of Natural Resources would have overall
responsibility for project coordination and supervision of project progress. The MENR has sufficient
capacity to implement the project, as evidenced by its successful completion of three GEF-financed
activities: the Transcarpathian and Danube Delta biodiversity protection projects and the National
Biodiversity Strategy/Action Plan.
4.2 Project management:
The MENR would contract a small nonprofit Ukrainian NGO (Interecocentre) as the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU). The PIU is staffed by a director, procurement specialist, and accountant, and
is experienced in managing Bank projects. InterEcoCentre served as the PIU to the MENR in the three
GEF-financed activities referenced in section 4. 1, and has assisted bilateral donors in implementing
additional projects. The three small regional PIU offices would assist with project implementation at the
local levels will require training in Bank procedures when they are established early in project
implementation. The Grant Agreement allows for retroactive financing of up to 40,000 SDR for consultant
services and incremental operating costs incurred after April 1, 2001. This financing was agreed upon
- 19-



during negotiations for two reasons: (i) because the PIU staff have continued to prepare the project from
April 1, 2001, even as funds for project preparation were exhausted; and (ii) to ensure that the PIU
continues to prepare for project implementation, especially in meeting conditions of Board presentation and
effectiveness and preparing bidding documents. The lack of a retroactive financing would likely have
resulted in the loss of management, procurement, and financial consultants from the PIU, and therefore lead
to delays in Board presentation and project effectiveness.
4.3 Procurement issues:
An assessment of the P1U's capacity to implement the project's procurement plan was carried out in
September 2000. The review addressed legal aspects, procurement cycle management, organizations and
functions, support and control systems, record keeping, staffing, general procurement environment and
made a general risk assessment of the PIU. The review rated the project's risk with regard to procurement
as high. The following actions would be implemented to mitigate this risk: (i) project funds would be
allocated to provide training for the PIU procurement staff in Bank procurement and English language; (ii)
a consultant would be contracted under the project for one year to prepare procurement documents and
train the PIU procurement staff; (iii) supervision missions would include an accredited procurement
specialist to post review and resolve pending issues, including a minimum review of ten contracts
representing different procurement methods; (iv) the Grant Agreement would allow for procurement
through LAPSO as an altemative to the Intemational Shopping procedure; (vi) a book including all the
standard bidding documents for relevant procurement methods would be provided to the PIU prior to
project launch; and (vii) the project launch workshop would include a comprehensive seminar on
procurement and financial management, including preparation of bidding documents for each type of
procurement method proposed in the Grant Agreement.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The financial management accountability framework of Ukraine has not been the subject of a detailed
review by the Bank/IBRD. However, primarily because of other implementation considerations, any
weaknesses that may exist in that framework has been mitigated for this project by (a) the appointment of
the Interecocentre (PIU) as the project implementing agency, an agency with considerable experience of
implementing similar projects, and (b) by requiring the Bank's no-objection to both the auditors and the
terms of reference for the audit required under the project. Weaknesses in the Ukraine banking sector will
be mitigated by the use of a bank deemed eligible by the Bank to house the project's Special Accounts.
These weaknesses neither compromise the fiduciary responsibilities of the recipient nor of the Bank.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project's environmental impact will be positive. The environmental impacts and mitigations
summarized here were presented and discussed with local stakeholders (governmental and
nongovernmental) at two workshops in the project region during project preparation. An Environmental
Management Plan prepared during project preparation will be implemented to ensure there are no
unexpected impacts. The EMP adequately addresses the four environmental issues of the project, none of
which are significant:
1. The areas included either as expansions of protected areas or newly created protected areas are natural
habitats currently used for grazing and fishing. These land and resource uses are not expected to change
under the project, although improved natural resource use measures are expected to reduce the intensity of
uses in high conservation value areas.
- 20 -



2. The project would finance small-scale construction and/or renovation of protected area infrastructure in
and around existing infrastructure to minimize impacts to natural habitats.
3. The project protected areas are expected to attract recreational tourists, who must be managed to
minimize disturbance to wildlife and natural communities. The project's national parks and regional
landscape parks are relatively large areas which include sites already dedicated to recreational use. The
park administration will be responsible for ensuring that existing and future recreational uses are consistent
with both local livelihoods and the biodiversity conservation objectives of the park. The sites contain
sensitive bird nesting and foraging sites where recreation is now prohibited or restricted. These will be
maintained under the project, and reflected in the protected area management plans prepared under the
project. The management plans will include a chapter on visitor management, which will summarize
measures taken to protect sensitive sites of high biodiversity value.
4. The agriculture component would finance measures to improve crop and soil management (e.g., through
conservation tillage and manure management) and in landscape and habitat management (e.g., by reducing
or eliminating grazing pressure on unplowed steppe and creating tree/shrub buffers along water courses).
Each of these activities will have positive environmental benefits through reductions in soil erosion and
nutrient runoff. The criteria identified in the operational manual, which will be used to select individual
investments, will exclude investments with adverse environmental impacts.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Mitigation measures provided for in the EMP are adequate and include:
1. Changes in land and resource use. No mitigations are required.
2. Small-scale construction and/or renovation of park buildings: (i) The facilities chapter of the protected
area management plan will identify infrastructural improvements to buildings and other small scale
infrastructure of the protected area, and how environmental impacts will be rnitigated, based as needed on
inventories of flora and fauna; (ii) the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources will supervise
preparation of site specific environmental plans before issuing permits for construction activities, in
accordance with the Ukrainian environmental assessment and coastal protection laws, and (iii) local
communities will be represented on the Local Advisory Committees which collaborate with park
administrations on all aspects of protected area planning and implementation.
3. Increased visitor use: (i) the management plans will include a chapter on visitor management, which will
summarize measures taken to protect sensitive sites of high biodiversity value; and (ii) sensitive sites of
high biodiversity value where recreation is now prohibited or restricted will be maintained under the
project, and reflected in the protected area management plans. Both steps have included in the EMP.
4. Sustainable agriculture. The criteria identified in the operational manual, which will be used to select
individual investments, will exclude investments with adverse environmental impacts. This has been
included in the EMP.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
- 21 -



of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The environmental impacts and mitigations were presented and discussed with local stakeholders
(governmental and nongovernmental) at two workshops in the project region during project preparation.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Implementation of the EMP is included in the Grant Agreement as the Recipient's responsibility. Its
implementation will be monitored as part of the Bank's supervision of the project.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project design incorporates the findings of the Social Assessment (SA), the preparation activities of
key stakeholders, and workshop consultations with local stakeholders around the three proposed protected
areas (Preazovski in Zaporizhe oblast, Meotida in Donetsk oblast, and Sivash in Crimea). The results of
the SA are summarized in Annex 11.
A key social issue in relation to the project objective is the need to preserve local communities' access to
natural resources. The key stakeholders in this issue are resource user groups (fishermen, farmers, and
hunters), the public sector managers (mainly the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources and
oblast and rayon governments), and individuals and NGOs active in environmental issues. The three new
protected areas to be financed under the project are two national parks (Preazovski and Sivash) and a
regional landscape park (Meotida), where access to resources would be maintained and the project
technical assistance would emphasize sustainable uses.
The key social development outcome is increased participation of local communities in the management of
the project protected areas.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The project approaches the key social issue identified in paragraph 6.1 by: (i) ensuring the participation of
local communities and user groups in govemance and implementation activities; and (ii) financing protected
areas which maintain access to resources and promote sustainable use. With regard to (i), the resources
user groups and local governments would be included in the local advisory committee for each project
protected area, and would be beneficiaries of investments to improve natural resources management and
agricultural practices.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The project was developed in collaboration with national and international NGOs. National NGOs would
be involved in project management, technical studies, education and awareness activities, and would
participate in the small grants program.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The inclusion of local communities and user groups into the protected areas management activities was
initiated during preparation through collaborative workshops which defined the objectives and activities for
the project protected areas. These objectives and activities have been incorporated into the project design.
The same stakeholders will participate in local advisory committees for individual protected areas to guide
the implementation of these plans. Also, the small grants program would finance conservation activities
- 22 -



by local communities, organizations, and individuals outside of the three project protected areas.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Socioeconomic surveys would continue under implementation to monitor the attitudes and needs of local
stakeholders and communities and provide feedback on project results.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            * Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                           0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*         Q Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
With regard to the Environmental Assessment OP (4.01), the Project is rated Environmental Category "B".
An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) prepared during project preparation was discussed with local
stakeholders (govenmuental and nongovernmental). The EMP will be implemented under the project, the
progress for which will be part of project supervision (see also Section 5 above).
With regard to the Natural Habitats OP (4.04), the project would not support the conversion of natural
habitats, would not construct linear features that would cut through natural habitats, would not affect the
water supply to or drainage from natural habitats, and would not result in the resettlement or migrations of
people that might adversely impact natural habitats. Rather, the project would help to protect and manage
fragile ecosystems.
With regard to the Forestry OP (4.36), the project would provide technical assistance for improved
management of shelterbelt forests in the agricultural landscape. The project would not directly or indirectly
result in the loss of forests of high ecological value and would not finance commercial logging operations.
- 23 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The Project is designed to support sustainability in four areas: social, institutional, ecological, and
financial. With regard to social sustainability, the project's investments in participatory protected areas
management and agriculture were developed in collaboration with local communities, farmers, and user
groups. The project's investments in public education and biodiversity protection and use regimes which
balance strict protection with sustainable uses (mainly fishing, grazing, and hunting) will promote better
informed involvement of local communities and user groups, and contribute to social sustainability.
Training and other investments in institutional strengthening, and income generation through small scale
tourism and user fees will promote institutional and financial sustainability. The issue of ecological
sustainability of the protected areas is being addressed along two main lines. First, the proposed Sivash
and Preazovsky National Parks and other improvements to the protected area network were identified
during project preparation based on gaps in the protected area network with respect to ecological
representativeness and area, and on threats to the highest biodiversity sites. Second, the corridor planning
and sustainable agriculture activities which are to be implemented through the small grants programs will
address habitat linkages within the corridor and the need for improved agricultural practices in the buffer
zones of Ramsar sites.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                     Risk Rating              Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Economic conditions will weaken               M          Project would be implemented by existing
government support for environmental                     institutions which have long term support from
initiatives, slow project implementation,                Ukrainian government. The project would
and prevent project objectives from being                improve the cost-effectiveness of the regulatory
achieved                                                 framework. GoU's counterpart funding
requirements are incorporated into the legal
agreement, and budgetary appropriations for
part of these requirements have been adopted
through Presidential Decree.
Lack of public support for biodiversity       M          Stakeholder groups that participated in project
conservation and protected areas                        preparation, including representatives of hunting
and fishing organizations and villages, indicated
their support for the project. The project design
takes into account their concerns and provide
opportunities for their involvement in
implementation.
From Components to Outputs
Insufficient institutional capacity to        M          The project will build capacity the local and
implement the project in a manner that                  regional staff of the MENR and oblast
achieves most or all of the objectives and               government; NGOs; and the technical specialists
outputs.                                                 through training programs, study tours and
provision of equipment.
Overall Risk Rating                           M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 24 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Condition of effectiveness:
Prior to effectiveness, a project auditor, acceptable to the Bank, must be selected.
Condition of disbursement:
Prior to disbursement for Small Grants under Components 2 and 4, the Recipient has adopted Small Grants
Guidelines that are satisfactory to the Bank.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Management:
The Recipient will maintain a Project Implementation Unit under terms of reference and qualifications
satisfactory to the Bank.
The Recipient will maintain a financial management system acceptable to the Bank and have the financial
records, accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year audited and submit a certified audit report to
the Bank within six months after the end of each fiscal year and also at the closing of the project.
Project Implementation:
The Recipient will provide the funds, facilities, services, and other resources needed for the Project.
The Recipient will submit its annual work plans and project budgets for each year of project
implementation not later than November 30 of each year for review by the Bank.
The Recipient will furnish to the Bank, on or about June 30, 2004, a report on the progress of the project
(incorporating the results of monitoring and evaluation activities) and sets out measures for achievement of
project objectives for rest of Project.
Monitoring, Review and Reporting
The Recipient will maintain policies and procedures adequate to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis,
in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the project and the achievement
of the project's objectives.
The Recipient will prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not
later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project.
- 25 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
EJ 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
X 1. b) Not applicable.
LI 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Phillip Brylsy                   Marjory-Anne Bromhea         4    Luca Barbone
Team Leader                       Sector ManagerlDirector           Country ManagerlDirector
-26-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
UKRAINE: Azov Black Sea Corridor Biodiversity Conservation
Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy or Objectives          Indicators                                      Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
CAS Objective (08/16/00):    No significant loss of  Extemal country and sector  Improved environmental
Environmentally sustainable  biodiversity or degradation in reports             management builds the
development               Azov-Black sea wetland                                economy and alleviates
corridor                                             poverty
Development of nature based
tourism
GEF Operational Program:
GEF Operational Program:   Creation of protected areas   Official gazette
Support in-situ conservation,
sustainable use, and capacity  Increased capacity for  Project corridor monitoring
building                  sustainable management of   system
protected areas
- 27 -



Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy]
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators         I                          |  Critical Assumptions
Global Objective:          Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Indicators:
Conserve coastal biodiversity  Improved protection and  Official gazette         Economic and political
within the Azov-Black Sea   sustainable use of biodiversity                      conditions allow government
coastal coridor by         in 250,000 hectares of high   Project corridor monitoring   to continue support for
strengthening the protected   priority gazetted coastal  system                  environmental initiatives
area network and           wetlands and associated
mainstreaming biodiversity   upland sites;            Project implementation
conservation into the                                 reports
agricultural landscapes that  Increased support for
connect them, and by building biodiversity conservation,  Surveys of key species
support at the national and    marked by increased
international levels for  participation of local      Protected Area Management
sustainable development of   communities in protected area Plans
the region's unique biological management and conservation
landscape.                activities;
Land use plans adopted that
integrate new and existing
Protected Areas and other
environmental issues prepared
in six participating oblasts;
Farm management plans to
reduce nutrient runoff under
implementation on 10,000
hectares of coastal farmland;
Improved nutrient reduction
and erosion control measures
under implementation in all
participating coastal rayons;
5,000 hectares of forest belts
under sustainable use, with
defined roles of farms in their
management.
- 28 -



Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy |
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                       Critical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Support Protected Areas
Management
Output 1. Studies /       Preazovsky and Sivash      Presidential Decree for     Government assigns and
consultations to establish  protected areas created by end approval and gazetting  maintains protected area staff
protected areas completed  of 4th year.               protected areas            and provides adequate
financial support for
Output 2. Capacity for     Management and monitoring  Territorial plan for zoning    maintaining newly established
managing protected areas   plans prepared and under    and management            protected areas.
strengthened              implementation for 3 or more
protected areas by 3rd year.
25% of the agreed
infrastructure & equipment in
place by the end Year 3; 40%
by the end of Year 4; 65% by
the 5th year.
30% of park staff have taken
at least one training course by
3rd year; 50% of wardens
have taken training course by
5th year.
Protected Area and
Corridor Planning
Output 1. Key natural areas   GIS inventory, confirmed by  For all Outputs: PIU reports,  Support of local and central
identifies and conservation    ground truthing, by end of 1st supervision mission reports,  government and local
targets established.      year.                                                  communities
PA gazettements
Results of inventory and
conservation targets endorsed Report on workshop
at workshop in 2nd year.    results/findings and
agreements reached
Output 2. Landscape level   Information database and
monitoring program        annual reports available by    GIS corridor maps
established               2nd year
At least 2 publications in
peer-reviewed journals each
year on monitoring results
Migratory annual bird counts
Output 3. Coastal Protected   Natural Corridor Plan adopted Government decree    National legislation
Area Plan finalized       by government by end of 2nd                            incorporates essential
year.                                                 elements of corridor plan
Output 4. Land use plans for  Draft land use plans in  Gazette of oblast Government Support from rayon
-29 -



the coastal corridor prepared  Kherson and Crimea (around  decisions             govemment and land owners
that take into consideration    proposed Sivash NP)
biodiversity conservation  completed by end of 2nd year                          Rayons support role of oblast
concerns                                                                         government in regional land
Draft land use plans in                               use planning
Odessa, Mykolaiv,
Zaporizhia, Donetsk coastal
zones completed by end of 3rd
year
Plan of land organization of
buffer of Sivash NNP
approved by rayon
administrations by 5th year
Build Capacity and Support
for Biodiversity
Conservation
Output 1. Increased capacity  For primary and secondary   Books, guides and other  Increased awareness
and awareness of target    schools:                   publications               influences actions.
groups regarding biodiversity  Environmental education
conservation               program for school teachers   Small grants guidelines  Teachers willing to take on
implemented at I or more                              additional teaching
teachers' colleges by end of                          responsibilities.
2nd year
Publication of education
materials and delivery of short
courses at target schools by
end of 2nd year.
For waterfowl hunters:
waterfowl and wetlands
conservation manual for
hunters published by end of
2nd year
For environmental NGOs:
small grants program 20%
disbursed by end of 2nd year,
50% disbursed by end of 3rd
year.
NGO conservation projects
Output 2. Increased regional Two regional workshops   Workshop results           Neighboring countries
cooperation in corridor   hosted on implementation of  (publication)             maintain interest in
resource management        African Eurasian Waterbird                            cooperation
Agreement, one by end of 2nd
year.
MOU on cooperation in      Memorandum of
management of migratory    Understanding
- 30 -



waterbirds and wetlands
signed by three or more
European countries in the
flyway by end of 4th year
Demonstrate biodiversity
friendly agriculture
practices
Output 1.                  Small grants program       Small grants operational   Agreement of landowners to
Biodiversity-friendly      disbursing funds by end of    manual; disbursement reports changes in the structure of
agricultural practices, through 2nd year                                         farm land use.
improved on-famm
management of soil and     At least 25 farms
runoff, and improved       participating in small grants
shelterbelt forest management program by beginning of 4th
demonstrated on pilot farms   year
and replicated on additional
farms through small grants
program.
Agriculture training manuals
Output 2. Farmers trained in  Training conducted for
biodiversity friendly     farmers and extension
agricultural practices    institutes by end 2nd year
Media dissemination material
Output 3. Dissemination of   Brochures on the agricultural
best practices and lessons  activities and results,
leamed from pilot farms   including economic analysis,
disseminated by 4th year
Publications in local press,
presentations on radio
Project Management and
Information Dissemination
Email communication among Web sites/email addresses    Project managers and
Project communication     managers and coordinators                             implementing agencies can
support program established.  operational by I st year  Project progress reports  access electronic mail and
actively contributing to
Project Management Reports  Information and data,                                communication program
(PMRs) produced           including monitoring data, on
project progress results
available in electronic and
paper form by end of I st year.
Project website operational by
end of 2nd year.
PMRs produced annually
- 31 -



Key Performance       Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators                                     Critical Assumptions
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
1. Support Protected Areas   US$4.78 million*       For all components:       Protected Areas legally
Management                                                                    established
Progress reports;
2. Support Protected Area    US$0.77 million*       Disbursement reports;     Adequate and timely
and Corridor Planning                               Supervision reports;      counterpart funding
Site visits; PMRs;
3. Build Capacity and     US$1.65 million*                                    Local communities and NGOs
Support for Biodiversity                                                      interested in participating in
Conservation                                                                  awareness programs
4. Demonstrate biodiversity   US$1.08 million*                                Farms interested in
friendly agricultural practices                                               participating in project
5. Project Management and   US$1.02 million*
Information Dissemination
* Note: Costs do not include the US$16.0 million in associated IBRD funds or the US$7.2 million in parallel financing
that are listed on the financing page.
- 32 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
UKRAINE: Azov Black Sea Corridor Biodiversity Conservation
Introduction
Ukrainian territory covers 37% of the Black and Azov Sea coasts and includes the most diverse and
extensive coastal wetland and nearshore marine habitats in the Black Sea region. The coastal region
contains a mosaic of globally and internationally significant wetland and marine communities, agricultural
lands, factories, and major population centers, with an estimated 7 million inhabitants. These wetland and
marine ecosystems are threatened by habitat loss and degradation.
The shallow fresh and salt water communities and mudflats wetlands on the Ukrainian coasts of the Black
and Azov seas comprise one of the largest wetland complexes in Europe. Natural communities unique to
Europe there have survived the large scale development policies for agriculture. The most important of
these total more than 650,000 hectares, including 250,000 hectares of interconnected shallow saline
lagoons and mudflats in the Sivash ecosystem of northern Crimea, have been designated Ramsar sites at
16 locations. The wetland and adjoining upland steppe habitats function as the Azov-Black Sea
Ecological Corridor along the northwestern border of the Black Sea and which provide critical wintering
and feeding habitat for millions of geese, ducks and waders that overwinter there or utilize the wetlands
for feeding and resting on their annual migration between northem Europe and Siberia and Africa. Fifteen
of the 27 European threatened bird species stopover or breed in these wetlands, including the majority of
the world's populations of the white pelican and the red-breasted goose and 60% of the world population
of the broad billed sandpiper.
The region also contains undisturbed steppe, Ukraine's most endangered habitat. These species-rich
steppe communities support a large number of endemic plant and animal species. Together, the marine,
wetland, and adjoining steppe communities support more than 100 species found in the Red Data Book of
Ukraine and the IUCN Red List. The terrestrial and marine biota of the project region have been
impacted by human activities. Steppe habitat in the project region has been largely converted to
developed or cultivated uses and some wetlands have been converted to fish ponds and other agricultural
uses (e.g., rice farms). Pollution from point sources (e.g., from municipal wastewater, industry, and
shipping) and non-point sources (e.g., agricultural runoff), as well as fresh water intrusion, has degraded
aquatic communities and reduced their value as foraging habitat for migratory birds. Overharvesting has
greatly reduced the Phyllophora algal fields which support abundant and diverse benthic and fish
communities.
The root causes of the degradation of the Black Sea ecosystems are: (i) large scale conversion of wetlands
and steppe communities on the coast of the Black and Azov Sea coast to farmland; (ii) pollution from
point sources (e.g., from municipal wastewater, industry, and shipping) and non-point sources (e.g.,
agricultural runoff) which contribute to eutrophication; and (iii) poor land use planning. These have
resulted in drainage of wetlands, destruction of fish spawning grounds, pollution from domestic,
municipal, and industrial wastes and agricultural runoff, and unsustainable resource and land use
practices.
The project objective is to conserve coastal biodiversity within the Azov-Black Sea coastal corridor by
strengthening the protected area network and to mainstreaming biodiversity conservation into the
agricultural landscapes which connect them. The project would implement the recommendations of the
GEF-financed (and now completed) Black Sea Environmental Program (BSEP), which produced the
Strategic Action Plan and a national report on coastal zone management, and the Biodiversity Enabling
- 33 -



Activity which produced the biodiversity strategy/action plan and national report. The project would
implement key activities in the 1996 Strategic Action Plan for the Rehabilitation and Protection of the
Black Sea that was prepared and ratified by all six littoral states of the Black Sea under the BSEP. These
activities will focus on the wetland and upland communities and agricultural lands along the northwest
shelf of the Black Sea in coastal Ukraine.
The government of Ukraine is committed to changing the practices that have contributed to the
degradation of the region and to address the policies that have supported these practices. Ukraine ratified
the Convention on Biodiversity in February 7, 1995 and is a signatory of the 1992 Bucharest Convention
on the Protection of the Black Sea Against Pollution, the Bonn and Bern Conventions, and the Agreement
on the Conservation of African-Eurasian Migratory Waterbirds. Ukraine is also a signatory of the Odessa
Ministerial Declaration (1993) and of the Strategic Action Plan for the Rehabilitation and Protection of
the Black Sea (1996). In 1998, the Cabinet of Ministers approved an ordinance on the Protection and
Recovery of the Environment of the Azov and Black Seas that specifically supports efforts in biodiversity
conservation, sustainable use of land and marine resources, and integrated coastal zone management.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$7.91 million
Support Protected Areas Management (US$3.31 GEF, 0.5 IBRD, 4.1 other)
Component Objectives. The objective of the protected areas component is to support biodiversity
conservation in a short list of highest priority sites within the corridor. This list currently includes
existing protected areas (Chomomorsky Reserve, Meotida Regional Landscape Park, and Granite
Pobuzhia Regional Landscape Park) and proposed protected areas (Sivash and Preazovsky National
Park). The WWF Partners for Wetlands Project will finance existing protected areas in Odessa oblast,
including the Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve as a follow-on investment to the GEF-fmanced Danube
Delta biodiversity project (now completed).
Expected Results. The protected areas management activities would improve the protection and
sustainable use of biodiversity at critical sites in the corridor by strengthening public sector management
and improving participation of local communities and NGOs.
The project would strengthen the network of marine and terrestrial protected areas in the corridor through
the creation or expansion of protected areas at priority sites identified in the draft Coastal Protected Area
Plan, and through the preparation and implementation of management plans for these sites. The sites and
activities are summarized in the table below. These activities would be implemented in partnership with
Flora and Fauna Intemational (financed through the U.K. Department of International Development) and
Wetlands International (financed through the Government of the Netherlands).
Implementation of the draft Coastal Protected Areas Plan that was developed during preparation has
begun, financed by national and regional governments: (i) Chomomorsky Biosphere Reserve was
expanded (from 52,000 to 87,000 ha) through the addition of key marine areas and upland steppe sites;
(ii) Meotida Regional Landscape Park was created; (iii) technical studies for the creation of Sivash
National Nature Park were initiated, and Kalinovsky Regional Landscape Park (12,000 ha) was created to
improve protection of its wetland and upland sites, and as a first step in creation of the park (which will
include the regional landscape park); and (iv) technical studies for the creation of Preazovsky National
Nature Park were completed.
-34 -



ProDosed Protected Areas Activities
Protected Area             Status           Project Activity      Partnerships
Jurisdiction of Nat ional Government
Chomomorsky          Existing Biosphere      Preparation &        GEF, GoU
Biosphere Reserve         Reserve         implementation of
management plan
Sivash National          Proposed;        Creation of National    GEF, GoU
Nature Park            Proposal drafted      Nature Park;          (Crimea),
during preparation     Preparation &         Wetlands
implementation of     International
management plan           U.K.
DFID/EKHF
Preazovsky National       Proposed                              GEF, GoU, U.K.
Nature Park                                                      DFID/EKHF
Wetlands
International
Jurisdiction of Oblast Governments
Meotida Regional        Established in            it               GEF, GoU
Landscape Park              2000                                (Donetsk oblast),
U.K.
DFID/EKHF
Granite Steppe         Designated by         Preparation &         GEF, GoU
Pobuzhya Regional    oblast authorities    implementation of       (Mykolaiv
Landscape Park        in early stages of    management plan         Oblast)
implementing
meaningful
protection
Activity 1.1: Studies and consultations for the creation/expansion ofprotected areas
The project would finance the consultation processes and studies needed to finalize the creation or
expansion of protected areas. This will include: (i) workshops with local land and resource users and
landowners, governmental agencies at all levels, and nongovernmental organizations; (ii) technical studies
on sustainable use of land and water resources, hunting, and fishing in areas zoned for such uses, and
justification of the protection regime, and gazettement of boundaries; and (iii) preparation of necessary
legal documents.
Activity 1.2: Strengthen protected areas management at priority sites
Management plans would be prepared for the five sites identified in the table above. The management
plans would cover the protected area and its buffer zone, which includes land in private and cooperative
ownership. These management plans would be brief and targeted, focusing on priority management
needs. The plans would identify the mix of appropriate land uses and activities, and the requirements to
support and maintain these areas (e.g., warden patrolling needs). Management plans for upland sites,
- 35 -



based on partnership agreements with the owners, would focus on natural means of habitat restoration
through changes in agricultural and grazing practices. Resource management plans for fisheries and
grazing would be implemented with the assistance of local users groups.
The protected areas would be divided into zones appropriate for the levels of protection and management
required, including zones for strict protection and sustainable use within the protected area and a
surrounding buffer zone outside of the protected area. Management plans would be prepared with a 5 to
10 year time horizon, focusing on the zones within the protected area and the following main activities, in
consultation or collaboration with local communities:
i) rapid biological assessment and monitoring. The first stage of the management planning
process would be to update information on the status and threats to biodiversity within the
protected area and buffer zone, which would provide inputs to park and landscape management
planning options. Each management plan would provide for monitoring of specific biological
parameters to fill major gaps in the existing information on the biodiversity of the protected area,
to inform park zoning and management and to evaluate the results of management actions. Local
communities in the park planning process and the preparation of the management plan.
ii) protected area and wildlife management. The management plan would identify habitat and
resource management activities, including grazing practices, to effect the restoration of threatened
steppe habitats and improve protection for the most sensitive sites (e.g., sand spits with native
vegetation and nesting birds), through improved education and control of illegal activities.
iii) environmental education. An environmental communication program would be developed for
each protected area to raise the level of environmental awareness through preparation of
interpretive materials for visitors of the protected areas, teacher education seminars, and
ecological education camps for school children. These education activities would target the local
communities in the buffer zone of the protected areas whereas the environmental education
activities described under component one would target schools and institutions in the corridor but
outside of the protected area buffer zones.
iv) infrastructure and equipment. The project would finance limited infrastructure and equipment
to support the basic management needs of the protected areas. The infrastructure would include
establishment of the park and reserve boundaries, renovation of existing buildings for park
management, and small infrastructure needed to accommodate visitor use, such as hiking trails,
observation towers for birdwatching, and information centers for tourists. The protected areas
administration will be provided with essential equipment such as computers, vehicles, boats, and
office and field equipment.
Activity 1.3: Support Professional Development in Protected Areas Management and Administration,
Wetlands Conservation and Management
The project would finance the expansion of the professional development and training program currently
being offered through U.K. EKHF/DFID to include protected areas outside of the Donetsk region. The
training activities would focus in the following areas:
i) Protected areas administration and management planning. The project would provide training
in public administration, enabling appropriate private sector development, natural resources
management, and participatory planning and management. The component would be
- 36 -



implemented in two phases: (1) building capacity in park administration for the developing and
implementing business plans for enterprises; community relations, financial management, and
national/international fund raising; and (2) technical training of scientific staff in management
plan preparation/implementation.
ii) Wetland and waterbird ecology and management and Monitoring. Reserve biologists, oblast
government staff, technical college instructors, and NGOs would receive training in wetlands
management at site, watershed, and landscape levels, and in wetlands hydrology. The training
would focus on methods for the management and protection of wetlands, including tools in habitat
management and wetland use by migratory waterbirds. Principles and practices of waterbird
monitoring would also be covered, including basic life history strategies, microhabitat use related
to vegetation structure and water regime, food habits and wetland productivity, and migrational
strategies. A training program in wetland and waterbird monitoring would be developed and
implemented by Wetlands International, and financed by the Dutch government. This program
would assist with the improvement of facilities of key organizations engaged in waterbird
monitoring, and would provide training in the collection, management, and analysis of baseline
data, and long-term monitoring of migratory waterbird populations, waterbird breeding colonies
and rare/endangered species.
iii) Warden skills. Warden staff would receive training to improve their effectiveness at
enforcement and to promote their expanded role in reserve monitoring and public education. This
training will be provided by the wardens of the Danube Delta Biosphere Reserve, which received
warden training in Ukraine and the Netherlands under the Ukraine Danube Delta GEF project
(completed in 1998).
The Rural Land Titling Project will work with the biodiversity project to identify and gazette lands under
"state reserve" and protected areas within the boundaries of former collectives in the project region and in
their vicinities. This will apply especially to the boundaries of zapovedniks (strictly protected areas under
national management), zakasniks (protected areas under local authorities), forests (under the committee on
forestry), and streams and rivers (some of which are to remain under state ownership and management).
The two projects will also clarify the management regimes and responsibilities for these areas. The
Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL) will reform the management of the environment fund, an
important source of discretionary funding for Ukraine's environmental priorities, to be used in part for
improved financing for the management of protected areas in the corridor.
Project Component 2 - US$5.57 million
Support Protected Area Corridor Planning (US$0.61 GEF, 4.0 IBRD, 0.96 other)
Component Objectives. The objective of this component is to promote coastal protected area planning
and to mainstream biodiversity conservation into protected area and land use planning.
Expected Results. The results would be: (i) completion of an assessment of natural assets of the corridor;
(ii) a finalized coastal protected area plan based on participatory consultations with a full range of
stakeholders, and endorsed by regional and national government; and (ii) prepare and implement land use
plans for coastal raions on the Azov and Black seas.
In the course of project preparation, activities to integrate biodiversity conservation objectives in the
corridor were developed that link the project with the $60M IBRD Ukraine Rural Land Titling Project
(FY02), which will award land titles to individual farmers within the former kolhozes (farrn collectives)
- 37 -



which have been privatized but are now being managed as joint stock companies. The two projects will
pilot mainstreaming of environmental protection (especially of biodiversity values) into the land titling
process for former collective farms surrounding the Ramsar sites addressed under the GEF project.
Activity 2.1: IdentifyKey Corridor NaturalAreas
The project will finance a rapid biological appraisal of natural areas, including steppe, forest, and wetland
habitats, based on remote sensing and field surveys. The surveys will identify important fishery spawning
grounds, waterbird foraging and nesting sites, movement corridors, and other ecologically important
features of the corridor. The surveys and subsequent consultations with stakeholders at the local,
regional, and national levels will be used to: (i) identify priority conservation targets throughout the
corridor and measures for their conservation; and (ii) provide inputs to finalize the draft protected area
plan developed during project preparation, with emphasis on landscape-level linkages among protected
areas at the local, regional, and national levels. The technical measures to improve protection, public
education and awareness activities, etc. would be eligible for financing under the competitive small grants
program for biodiversity conservation (activity 3.3). A national conference would be held at the end of
the first year of implementation to disseminate and endorse the results of the corridor assessment.
Wetlands Intemational will provide technical assistance for undertaking and publishing field inventories of
wetlands in the corridor.
Activity 2.2: Establish Landscape Level Monitoring
The project would establish a monitoring program to deternine trends in the status of biodiversity in the
corridor, to gauge the health of coastal ecosystems at the landscape level, and to monitor impacts to the
key Ramsar sites that are receiving support under the project. The specific subjects and methods of data
collection would be identified by protocols developed in parallel with the survey of corridor natural areas.
This monitoring system would focus on indicators of ecosystem health such as: (i) area of natural
habitats; (ii) migratory waterbird numbers, which are considered an important indicator of flyway
function; and (iii) studies on the status and autecology of individual indicator species, some of them
tireatened in Ukraine. The oblast departments of environment (regional branches of the MENR) and the
protected areas administrations, with technical assistance of specialists from the Academy of Sciences,
would be responsible for implementing the monitoring program and maintaining it after project
completion. The monitoring results would be disseminated in electronic form (email and the project
website) and paper reports to state institutes and organizations and NGOs engaged in monitoring
activities, oblast environment departments, and the public. Wetlands Intemational will provide technical
assistance for annual and seasonal waterbird surveys in the corridor.
Activity 2.3: Finalize Natural Corridor Plan
During preparation, a draft coastal protected area plan was developed based on a ranking of natural
wetland and upland sites within the corridor, according to the following criteria: biodiversity significance,
representatives of threatened wetland and steppe communities, and priority for achieving the project
objectives. Most of the high priority sites are existing or proposed national nature parks and biosphere
reserves, which are managed at the level of national government under the direct or indirect jurisdiction of
the MENR. A second tier of protected areas consists of zakasniks and Regional Landscape Parks which
are under the jurisdiction of local and oblast (regional) govenmment. Both types of protected areas are
links in the coastal protected area network.
The MENR, including its five regional departments in the coastal oblasts, and the Crimean State
- 38 -



Committee for Environment and Natural Resources, NGOs, and local stakeholders would finalize the
Coastal Protected Area Plan. The plan would consist of: (i) a strategic vision for Ukraine's coastal
protected areas based on the extensive data available on biodiversity and social significance of the sites.
This would be developed based on workshops with local stakeholders and in congruence with
internationally accepted (i.e., IUCN, Wetlands International) criteria for protection and management; (ii)
an economic analysis of the role of protected areas in local economies and financing needs for their
long-term operation that emphasizes cost recovery mechanisms.
A publication summarizing the Coastal Protected Area Plan, its objectives, and the activities planned for
its implementation would be prepared under the direction of the MENR with the participation of regional
departrnents and NGOs, and would be incorporated into the land use plans that will be prepared under the
project. This publication would be one of the materials used to raise public awareness and understanding
of the project and the importance of wetlands conservation in the project region, and would be presented
for adoption at a national conference in year two.
Activity 2.4: Prepare Land Use Plans to Improve Land Use Practices Within the Corridor
The project would work with local and regional governments to prepare land use plans in the coastal
zones of the five participating oblasts and the zone of influence around proposed Sivash National Nature
Park in Crimea. The land use plans would support integration of environrental objectives in coastal land
and resource use. The planning process would involve the identification of zones, sites, habitat patches,
corridors and natural barriers and would develop model plans for management. These plans may include
small scale restoration activities to minimize biodiversity loss and promote dispersion of particular
species. The plans would also identify actions at both the policy level and in terms of technical assistance
that would be needed to achieve longer term land use objectives. The project would also build capacity at
the oblast and rayon levels for implementing these plans.
The land use plans would be piloted in Kherson oblast, which includes Chomomorsky Reserve, and in
Crimea, which includes the zone of influence around the proposed Sivash National Nature Park. In the
second phase of this effort, based on lessons learned and models developed in the two project focal areas,
land use planning activities would be undertaken in the coastal zones of Odessa, Mykolaev, Zaporizhia,
and Donetsk oblasts.
The Rural Land Titling Project will work with the biodiversity project under this component to implement
the technical and consultative process for land titling, including identifying lands to remain in state
ownership and the agency responsible for their management, and build consensus on ownership and use of
non-agricultural and marginally productive agricultural lands within the former collective boundaries. The
projects will: (i) develop cadastre maps of farm parcels and natural habitats based on satellite imagery and
aerial photos, to map environmentally important areas (small rivers, forests, wetlands) around key Ramsar
sites in the corridor; (ii) assess the environmental management needs of lands within the former collective
farm, including soils conservation and management of on-farm wetlands; (iii) evaluate the feasibility of
developing conservation easements, with favorable tax incentives, for uses of environmentally sensitive,
marginal agricultural lands. Ukrainian agricultural, land management, and environmental institutes will
carry out these assessments for each former collective, and incorporate the results into the land titling
outputs.
Project Component 3 - US$ 7.14 million
Build Capacity and Awareness in Biodiversity Conservation (US$1.27 GEF, 4.0 IBRD, 1.87 other)
- 39 -



Component Objectives. The objective of this component is to build capacity and awareness in local
communities, user groups (e.g. hunters and farmers), public sector agencies, and NGOs on the Project's
activities in the corridor, and to promote regional cooperation in biodiversity and wetlands conservation.
Expected Results. The planning activities would yield: (i) educational programs on wetlands conservation
for primary and secondary schools, reaching an estimated 20,000 pupils; (ii) wetland and waterfowl
conservation books for hunters and public sector agencies and field guides on biodiversity of the corridor;
(iii) strengthened civil society engaged in corridor conservation activities; and (iv) improved cooperation
among public sector actors in the region (including neighboring countries) in wetland and waterfowl
conservation.
Activity 3.1: Support Environmental Education
The project would support environmental education activities to build awareness in wetlands conservation
and management in selected urban and rural kindergartens, schools and universities of the project region.
The project would fund educational materials (curricula, brochures and other printed material),
equipment, and program costs (e.g., transportation costs) for primary and secondary schools. The
programs for primary and secondary schools would be developed by Melitopol Pedagogical University.
An environmental education training in the local teachers' college and a wetlands and waterbird
management curriculum for Melitopol Agro-technical college and Zaporizhia University would be
developed in cooperation with universities of the project region and international consultants.
The education program would be implemented through environmental education programs at local
institutions (Donetsk State University, Kherson Teachers' Training College, Mykolaiv Teachers' Training
College, Odessa State University, Simferopol State University), and would target 20 secondary schools
and 20 kindergartens, reaching a target population of approximately 20,000 pupils and scholars. By
including post-graduate teachers' training and establishment of a mobile educational program, these
educational efforts would be extended into smaller towns and rural areas. Additional environmental
education and awareness activities will be eligible for funding through the small grants program on a
competitive basis (see below).
The project would finance preparation of a field guide on the birds of coastal Ukraine as a tool in
promoting awareness and understanding of biodiversity in the corridor. The book would fill a gap in the
availability of educational materials on rare and endangered birds of Ukraine, that is essential to the
project's education and awareness building activities. Preparation of the book was initiated through a
small grant from the Dutch government. The project would finance the costs for completing the guide and
printing 5,000 copies.
Activity 3.2: Build Capacity in Environmental NGOs
The project would build capacity in two groups of NGOs engaged in activities important for biodiversity
conservation in the corridor:
(i) Environmental NGOs would receive in-country training to increase their capacity for
achieving biodiversity conservation outcomes through:
*  business skills and office management. This would involve training in basic business
practices and office management, including management systems, financial and accounting
- 40 -



practices, marketing strategies, and proposal preparation and fund-raising;
*   use of the media in environmental advocacy. This will involve training in public relations
in nature conservation, including design, planning, and organization of campaigns, contact
with joumalists and media, NGO-networking and public relation activities, and design of
publications and information materials;
*   modem of environmental education and nature interpretation, including conceptual
framework, analysis and definition of target groups, choice of reserve-specific themes,
methods and design of events and activities, implementation and evaluation of programs,
and long-term planning and capacity building in environmental education; and
*   workshops for the exchange of regional expertise with NGOs to promote networking and
cooperation inside and outside Ukraine (e.g., Wetlands Intemational, Euronatur, IUCN,
WWF).
(ii) Nongovemrnmental associations of hunters in the corridor would receive training in wetland
conservation and waterfowl management. Hunting grounds in the project region are under lease
and management to hunting groups, the largest of which is the Ukrainian Association for Hunters
and Fishermen. These hunting organizations are responsible for managing game populations,
monitoring population trends, and supporting the recovery of selected threatened species (e.g.,
from the Red Book of Ukraine). The clubs function as nongovernmental organizations and their
common interest in wetlands conservation and waterfowl management and their presence in
virtually all local communities makes them an important target group for capacity building under
the project. The project will finance preparation of a hunter's manual, building on similar
manuals used elsewhere in Europe and North America, which teaches hunters best practices in
wetland and waterfowl conservation and sustainable use. The manual will be used as a manual in
a series of training workshops for hunting associations in the corridor. The project will also assist
the hunting associations in organizing an umbrella conservation organization dedicated to
wetlands and waterfowl management and conservation, modeled on the North American
organization, Ducks Unlimited.
Activity 3.3: Establish a Small Grants Program to Build Support for Biodiversity Conservation
The project would establish a small grants program to support activities by local communities and NGOs
which promote biodiversity conservation in the protected areas and their support zones, and build
awareness and support among local communities of the project and the role of individuals and
nongovernmental organizations in achieving these. The PIU would: (i) prepare and disseminate the Small
Grants Guidelines, including description, scoring and selection criteria, and call for proposals; (ii) hold
workshops with local communities to build understanding of the objectives and criteria for selection and
administration; (iii) monitor implementation of the individual grant contracts, and (iv) publish annual
summaries of the competition, including descriptions of proposals received and selected, and the basis for
their selection; and (iv) organize a conference and awards program in years three and five of the project
for participants in the program to review results and disseminate the lessons learned. Individual grants
would be made on a competitive basis under transparent criteria and procedures. The eligibility criteria
for individual projects would include direct support of protected area and conservation management
objectives.
Activities would be considered throughout the defined ecological corridor. NGOs, local adrninistrations,
- 41 -



community interest and resource user groups, individuals and local communities would be eligible, but not
staff of the government agencies engaged in project implementation. The activities to be financed would
include:
i) Conservation support to prioritY Ramsar sites and steppe areas. The corridor contains a
number of proposed and existing protected areas which are of global significance, as recognized
in the draft coastal protected area plan. The following sites are important elements of the coastal
protected area network, and are not receiving financing under component I of the project.
proposed Dniester National Nature Park (Odessa oblast), Tiligul Regional Landscape Park
(Mykolaiv oblast), Azov Sivash National Nature Park (Zaporizhia oblast), Dnpro Delta, Kinburn
Regional Landscape Park, Dzarylgach zakasnik, and Askanya Nova biosphere reserve (Kherson
oblast). For these sites, activities by NGOs, user groups, community interest groups, and local
governments which improve the protection and management of these areas would be eligible for
financing on a competitive basis through the small grants program.
ii) Technical studies and proposals to integrate biodiversity conservation objectives into local
economic activities. Grants would be provided for incremental protection and restoration of
wetland and marine resources or resource bases that are under exploitation by local users, user
groups, and community interest groups. This could include financing of incremental costs to
nongovernmental actors to undertake field and other technical studies to improve knowledge about
biodiversity in the corridor and proposals to convert military reserves to protected areas. The
corridor contains a number of wetland and undisturbed steppe communities which are within
mnilitary reserves which are being considered for conversion to other land uses and ownership.
The small grants program may finance education activities, workshops, and technical studies for
the improved protection and management of these areas.
iii) Environmental awareness and education proposals. The project would support the
development and implementation of community-based environmental education and awareness
activities such as community based environmental awareness programs, workshops on
biodiversity conservation and protected areas management, and school competitions and
conferences on environment.
Activity 3.4: Promote Regional and International Cooperation
The project would support regional and international cooperation in wetland conservation and waterfowl
flyway management, and exchange of regional expertise, through the following:
i) Two intemational conferences would be held on implementation of international agreements
related to wetlands and waterbird conservation to which Ukraine is a signatory (Ramsar, Bern,
and Bonn Conventions, including the Agreement on the Conservation of African-Eurasian
Migratory Waterbirds). The outputs of these workshops would be technical reports and a draft
cooperative agreement in waterfowl and flyway management among the riparian countries of the
Black Sea (Ukraine, Romania, Bulgaria, Turkey, and Georgia), including coordinated annual
waterbird censuses.
ii) Exchange of regional expertise. Natural resource biologists from the riparian countries of the
Black Sea would meet annually to share data and the results of monitoring activities and
collaborate on wetlands habitat and waterbird conservation issues. The workshop results would
be translated and published. Discussions will include knowledge of existing population data sets,
- 42 -



banding data, habitat inventory, habitat degradation, and challenges to the resource.
Regional working visits would also be arranged for the region's protected area mangers, ecologists and
environmentalists, and for administrators and environmentally active politicians. The visits would
promote the cooperation of the region's biodiversity conservation management and administration.
Participants would come from the project area's protected areas management, ecological education and
training centers, ornithological stations, scientific biological, agricultural and forestry institutes, NGOs
among other things. The administrative level would be typically represented by Oblasts' environmental,
land use and forestry departments. Where appropriate, Rayon administrations (agriculture) could be
involved as well.
Project Component 4 - US$9.78 million
Demonstrate biodiversity friendly agriculture practices (US$0.84 GEF, 7.5 IBRD, 1.44 other)
Component Objectives. The objective of the agricultural component is to support changes in agricultural
land use and production methods which reduce agricultural impacts on biodiversity in the project protected
areas, and which are economically sustainable. The component would: (i) provide technical assistance to
key stakeholders (farmers, agricultural institutes responsible for extension services, and NGOs) on
sustainable agriculture practices and their application in coastal Ukraine, and on the enviromnental and
economic benefits of these practices; and (ii) implement a competitive small grants programs (SGP) for
improved on-farm management practices which have direct biodiversity conservation benefits for the
priority protected areas in the corridor. This component would be implemented in collaboration with the
Rural Land Titling project, which will implement environmental management practices into the land titling
process for former collective farms in the corridor.
The project would improve the contribution of the agricultural landscape to the corridor's biodiversity,
based on three principles:
*   Agricultural lands contain important biodiversity. Although the crop and range lands contain
substantially lower biodiversity values than natural habitats, they can be managed to maintain
important biodiversity. Agricultural land per se contains a greater or lesser degree of diversity at the
landscape level and hosts a species and genetic diversity which is profoundly affected by the production
methods and land use applied. For example, the unploughed steppe communities that surround the
protected areas targeted under the project support a number of threatened species, and migratory
waterfowl rely on these and cropland habitats for forage.
*  Agricultural lands can support biodiversity values in core conservation areas. Water, air, flora and
fauna are exchanged across the borders between core conservation areas and neighboring agricultural
land. The specific agricultural practices employed can profoundly affect the physical and biological
environment within the core areas. Agricultural lands also serve as open space corridors between
protected areas.
* Demonstration of the interdependence of agricultural lands and protected areas is necessary for the
sustainability ofprotected area functions. Farmland and woodland comprise approximately 80% and
8 %, respectively, of the land use in the project region. Agricultural production remains the primary
source of income for people in areas adjacent to core conservation areas and an important component
of Ukrainian national production. The sustainable use of biodiversity in the agricultural production
landscape is important for conserving biodiversity in the corridor, including in protected areas. The
expansion of conservation areas and development of 'biodiversity-friendly' agricultural technology is
- 43 -



key to creating and maintaining farmers' positive attitude, and is necessary for the long-term success of
conservation activities in protected areas.
Expected Results. The agriculture activities would: (i) engage 25 or more farms around the project
protected areas to implement sustainable agriculture practices; and (ii) quantify the economic benefits of
these practices to improve their replicability elsewhere in the corridor.
Activity 4.1: Train farmers, agricultural institutes, and NGOs in biodiversity-friendly agriculture
activity
The agricultural component would be initiated through a training program in sustainable agriculture for
farmers, agricultural institutes, and NGOs. Farm staff, agricultural institute staff, and NGOs would
receive training in the agricultural practices of the component and in the financial issues that would
influence project sustainability. These would include:
*   workshops/courses on environmental issues in agriculture and the design and rationale of the project.
For each of the farms contracted to undertake project activities, a group with a representative mix of
age, gender, work duties and specialization would receive the training.
3   economics and profitability of sustainable agriculture activities.
3 specialized training in agriculture, forestry, and farm management for the farms contracted under the
project.
3   technical assistance to farms to assist them to prepare and implement plans that integrate management
of croplands, grazing meadows and range lands, and shelterbelt forests to achieve biodiversity benefits.
Activity 4.2: Implement On-farm Investments in Sustainable Agriculture
The Project would implement a competitive small grants programs (SGP) for improved on-farm
management practices which have direct biodiversity conservation benefits for the priority protected areas
in the corridor. The approach of the program would be as follows:
Implementation Procedures and Eligibility. An outreach and education activity (activity 4.1) would
target eligible farms in an information campaign designed to build awareness and support for the activity
and provide instructions to farmers on how to apply to the SGP.
A competitive small grants program would fund: (i) works and goods to be undertaken by the farm or
farmers association to improve management of soil, nutrients, livestock and livestock waste, and riparian
areas, and protection of natural habitats; and (ii) technical or other services by agricultural institutes,
farmers/farmer associations, and NGOs to provide training or to disseminate the techniques and lessons
leamed.
Eligible farms would be those around the project's main protected areas where improved on-farm
management of soil, nutrients, and natural habitats would have direct benefits for biodiversity conservation
objectives the improved to environmental would be eligible. This would include an estimated 25 farms
around Chornomorsky, Sivash, Preazovsky, Meotida, and Dniester. Successful applicants to the small
grants would receive technical assistance, delivered through an agrarian institute and intemational
- 44 -



specialists.
Each of the farms selected to participate in the SGP would receive assistance through the technical
assistance and training activity to prepare a brief farm plan which identifies improvements in on-farm
environmental practices and an agreement on the improvements to be implemented under the project. The
farm plans will specify changes in uses of certain areas -- areas of low inherent productivity and high
environmental costs -- from arable or agricultural production and measures to reduce nutrient runoff.
These areas will be used for protection purposes (e.g., biodiversity conservation areas, shelter belts) and/or
for less intensive production (pastures and hay meadows). The farm plans would also specify additional
measures to reduce erosion and nutrient runoff (e.g., the use of swales to hold runoff).
Contributions of farmers. Farmers will co-finance the agricultural investments through donation of farm
staff services to implement the activities and 30% co-financing of goods (excluding seeds) to implement the
project.
Activities to be Financed: The project would implement sustainable agricultural practices which improve
the management of soil, nutrients, livestock and livestock waste, and water bodies, and protect natural
habitats (forests, steppe, and wetlands). The project would finance the partial costs of equipment, goods
(seeds, fuel, etc.), and the full training costs and other consultant services to implement a range of farm
activities, including:
i) Improvements in crop and soil management through:
*   use conservation tillage and contour tillage practices: employing conservation tillage to
improve protection of soil against wind and water erosion by avoiding periods of bare soil,
compaction and disturbance of biogenic soil structures decrease topsoil loss and soil
degradation.
*   improved manure storage
*   maximize the duration that soils are covered by crops, through a combination of increased
use of winter crops, leaving stubble fields unplowed until spring, undersowing with grass
and/or legumes for fodder or green manure, and establishing perennial pastures and hay
meadows.
*   implement plant nutrient management plans which rely more on green manure and less on
fertilizers, and based on soil testing technology, to decrease the rate of plant nutrient
application per area unit and season.
*   diversify crop selection of species- and cultivar-wise, to reduce reliance on pesticides and
promoting natural species diversification and higher levels of agricultural biodiversity; and
*   selection of pasture species to improve soil coverage and drought resistance.
ii) Improvements in landscape and habitat management by:
*   reducing tillage on land sloping in excess of 5 degrees to reduce soil erosion and loss, and
- 45 -



increase landscape biodiversity
*   restoring biodiversity in degraded and unproductive agricultural areas by allowing areas to
naturally recover (e.g., by reducing or eliminating grazing pressure on unplowed steppe).
*   improving the management of tree shelter belts to reduce wind erosion and maintain
landscape and species diversity. The forest stands in the agricultural landscape provide
food and shelter for animals, and are an important component of corridors for flora and
fauna. They also provide fuelwood and non-timber forest products to local communities.
*   creating leaving no-till buffer strips along watercourses to reduce physical degradation of
embankments, soil erosion, and water pollution, and increase landscape diversity and
corridors for flora and fauna (breeding as well as migrating).
*   creating artificial wetlands/reedbeds for wildlife and where eutrophying solutes can
degrade before discharge to stream courses and the Black Sea.
The Rural Land Titling Project and the biodiversity project will work together to assess the environmental
management needs of lands within the former collective fann, including soils conservation and management
of on-farm wetlands. The projects will also evaluate the feasibility of developing conservation easements,
with favorable tax incentives, for environmentally sensitive, marginal agricultural lands. Ukrainian
agricultural, land management, and environmental institutes will carry out these assessments for each
former collective, and incorporate the results into the land titling outputs. The WWF Partners for Wetlands
and the TACIS Lower Danube Lakes project will assist with the development of organic agriculture in
Odessa oblast, and are promoting the establishment of European markets for agricultural products.
Project Component 5 - US$2.12 million
Project Management and Information Dissemination (US$0.87 GEF, 1.25 other)
Tlhe project would finance the operating costs of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) which reports to the
Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources. The PIU will be responsible for contracting for the
delivery of goods, works, and consultant services to implement the project, and will work under the
direction of the Project Steering Committee. The PIU staff will include a project director, financial
management specialist, accountant, and one or more procurement specialists.
Activity 5.1: Establish communication support program.
- 46 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
UKRAINE: Azov Black Sea Corridor Biodiversity Conservation
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                  US $million    US $million    US $million
1. Support Protected Areas Management                        3.08          0.98          4.06
2. Support Protected Area and Corridor Planning              0.57          0.09           0.66
3. Build Capacity and Support for Biodiversity Conservation   1.38         0.13           1.51
4. Demonstrate Biodiversity-friendly Agriculture Practices    1.00         0.03           1.03
5. Project Management and Informnation Dissemination         0.75          0.10          0.85
Total Baseline Cost                                          6.78           1.33         8.11
Physical Contingencies                                      0.24          0.06          0.30
Price Contingencies                                         0.80          0.09          0.89
Total Project Costs'               7.82           1.48          9.30
Total Financing Required                 7.82          1.48          9.30
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                  US $million    US $million    US $million
Works                                                          0.87           0.05          0.92
Goods                                                          1.03           0.89          1.92
Consulting Services, Training and Workshops                    2.65           0.53          3.18
Small Grants                                                   1.44           0.00          1.44
Incremental Operating Costs                                    0.66           0.01          0.67
Recurrent Costs                                                1.17           0.00          1.17
Total Project Costsi      7.82            1.48          9.30
Total Financing Required        7.82           1.48          9.30
Note: Costs included here reflect actual costs of the Azov-Black Sea Corridor Biodiversity Conservation
Project and do not include US$16.0 million in associated IBRD funds and US$7.2 million in parallel
financing listed on the financing page.
Identifiable taxes and duties are 1.06 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 31.44 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 21 .95% of
total project cost net of taxes.
-47 -



Annex 4
UKRAINE: Azov Black Sea Corridor Biodiversity Conservation
INCREMENTAL COSTS AND GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS
Overview
1.    The project objective is to conserve coastal biodiversity on the Azov-Black Sea by strengthening
the protected area network and mainstreaming biodiversity conservation into the agricultural landscapes
which connect them. The GEF Alternative will: (i) support protected areas management; (ii) support
protected area and corridor planning; (iii) build capacity and awareness of biodiversity conservation; and
(iv) demonstrate biodiversity friendly agriculture practices. This will include prioritizing, managing and
monitoring a network of marine and terrestrial protected areas in the corridor along the northwest shelf of
the Black Sea to maintain the corridor's ecological functions, preparing land use plans to improve
agricultural and other land use practices that mainstream biodiversity conservation objectives into
development priorities, and building support and cooperation for wetlands conservation through
environmental education and small grants programs. The GEF Alternative intends to achieve these outputs
at a total incremental cost of approximately US$32.5 million, of which a grant of US$6.9 million is
requested from GEF. The Government of Ukraine has commnitted to financing US$1.7 million of its
resources, and oblast governments are providing US$0.4 million. The U.S. Govemment, UK Know-how
Fund, Dutch Govermment, Danish Govermment, EC TACIS program and World Wide Fund for Nature
(WWF) are providing a total of US$7.2 million to complement GEF funding. Additionally, GEF funds are
leveraging US$16.0 million in associated IBRD funds, under the Programmatic Adjustment Loan and the
Rural Land Titling Project, and US$0.3 million in private contributions (co-financing from farmers
participating under Component 4).
Context and Broad Development Goals
2.    Ukrainian territory covers one-third of the Black Sea coastlines and includes the most diverse and
extensive coastal wetland and nearshore marine habitat in the region. The shallow fresh and salt water
communities and mudflats comprise one of the largest wetland complexes in Europe, and serve as key
components of an ecological corridor that links natural communities in the northem Black Sea region and
provide critical wintering and feeding habitat for over one million waterbirds migrating through the
northwest shelf along various Eurasian-African flyways. Fifleen of twenty-seven European threatened bird
species stopover or breed in the Black Sea, and the wetlands support the majority of the world's
populations of the white pelican, red-breasted goose, and pygmy cormorant. Sixty percent of the world's
population of the broad-billed sandpiper use the wetlands for stopover and molting. The region's
undisturbed steppe habitats are likewise species rich and support a large number of endemic plant and
animal species. Together, the marine, wetland, and adjoining steppe communities support more than 100
species found in the Red Data Book of Ukraine and the IUCN Red List.
3.    The terrestrial and marine biota of the region have been heavily impacted by human activities.
Steppe habitat in the region has been largely converted for agricultural cultivation and other purposes,
while wetlands have been converted into fish ponds, rice farms, and other agricultural lands. Agricultural
runoff, especially from rice famming, introduces fresh water and organic pollutants into the brackish
wetlands, degrading the benthic and fish communities and reducing their value as foraging habitat for
migratory birds. Eutrophication and pollution from various point and nonpoint sources has likewise
impacted marine communities. The root causes of environmental degradation in the Black Sea region
include: inadequate land use planning; inadequate enforcement of existing laws; public programs which
- 48 -



undernine efforts to protect environmental resources; and limited financial resources for promoting
conservation activities in the region.
4.     The broad development goals of the Ukraine focus on private sector development; public sector
restructuring, social protection and poverty alleviation, and environmental protection. The Government of
Ukraine has taken important steps toward improved environmental management in recent years, giving
broad powers to the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources; producing, with extemal cooperation,
an environmental study to identify policy and investment priorities; preparing a Biodiversity Strategy and
Action Plan with support from the World Bank/Global Environment Facility; developing a strategy for
phasing out chlorofluorocarbons and other ozone-depleting substances; and closing the remaining units
Chernobyl. Over the medium term, the Government aims to modernize environmental standards and related
regulatory infrastructure; decentralize authority for environmental management and regulatory activities to
improve local programs and encourage accountability; strengthen management of protected areas and
expand these areas to include formerly public and military land; introduce conservation measures that
respond to changes in agriculture and forestry, as well as to progress in land privatization; and support
projects that combine economic opportunities with environmental or conservation measures.
Baseline Scenario
5.     Since the 1980s, poor economic performance in the former Soviet Union in general, and Ukraine in
particular, led to runaway inflation, rapidly increasing debt, and a virtual collapse of exports. Poverty,
which was not completely unknown in Ukraine and the other republics prior to the breakup of the former
Soviet Union, increased significantly, leading to shortages of food and other consumer goods. Following
independence in 1991, economic output in Ukraine dropped by 26 percent by 1994, agricultural production
fell by 25 percent while consumption declined precipitously in real terms, an estimated 32 percent from
1991 to 1994. Since 1994, the economy has stabilized; nonetheless, the increase in poverty among
UTkrainians triggered a variety of short-term economic activities with long term implications.
6.     Over the last five decades, Ukraine's Black Sea coastline has been transformed from a diverse
ecosystem supporting a rich variety of coastal and marine species to one that has been severely degraded by
eutrophication, agricultural activities, and industrial pollution. Intense pressure from grazing, silviculture,
agriculture, fishing, hunting and trapping, and upstream pollution, has severely impacted the once diverse
and large populations of fish and birds as well as rare mammals. In response to these activities, the
Government of Ukraine has begun to act to protect important natural resources and to preserve
biodiversity, most notably through the Black Sea Environment Program. These activities are principally
coordinated by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (MENR), which was created in 1991 to
administer environmental programs and policies throughout Ukraine.
7.    Through MENR, the Government of Ukraine is coordinating national, regional, and local efforts in
the Black Sea region related to natural resource management, coastal protection and integrated coastline
management, air and water pollution, environmental monitoring and environmental impact assessments,
capacity building and public awareness. Over the next five years, it is expected that the sum of activities
related to environmental protection in and around the project area is approximately US$25 million. Of this
total, slightly more than twenty percent of activities are directed towards biodiversity conservation and
bioresources, or US$5.6 million. In addition, a number of activities which will be completed by the
estimated starting date of the GEF Altemative, and thus are not included in the Baseline Scenario, include
activities related to Ukraine's participation in the Black Sea Environment Program (BSEP). In 1996, the
BSEP produced the Black Sea Strategic Action Plan, which addresses means to reverse environmental
-49 -



degradation in the region.
8.    Ukraine's Enabling Activities for Biodiversity, which were completed in 1998, have allowed for the
formulation of strategies and actions necessary for the protection and sustainable use of the nation's
biodiversity in accordance with Article 6 and 8 of the Convention on Biological Diversity. In addition,
Ukraine's first National Report to the Conference of the Parties has been prepared. Associated objectives
of these activities included definition and/or refinement of priorities for the conservation and sustainable
use of biological and landscape diversity; guidance of activities under the Pan-European Biological and
Landscape Diversity Strategy to meet key GEF objectives, and promotion of institutional and public
awareness regarding the conservation and sustainable use of the nation's biological diversity.
9.    Donors. A number of natural resources management and biodiversity conservation activities in
Ukraine are being financed by other development agencies, or will be under implementation through IBRD
projects. These and the Government's contributions are summarizes in the Incremental Cost Analysis
matrix and discussed below:
i)     The IBRD Rural Land Titling Project and Programmatic Adjustment Loan (PAL) will
support the Govermnent of Ukraine's reform program, setting the basis for sustained economic
growth, poverty reduction and improved environmental protection. The Rural Land Titling Project
($60m) would issue land ownership titles to farmers and other rural land owners and help educate
farmers about their land rights. As a contribution to the GEF Altemative, it would also map
environmentally important areas (small rivers, forests, wetlands) around key Ramsar sites in the
corridor, educate farmers and local governments about sustainable uses of these, and build
consensus on ownership and use of nonagricultural and marginally productive agricultural lands
within the collective boundaries. One of the key themes of the PAL reform program is to develop
an integrated environmental permitting and fine system which improves financing mechanisms and
incentives for reducing air and water pollution. The outcome of the environmental component of
the PAL ($250m) will include (i) inventory of industrial and other polluters throughout the country;
(ii) strengthened financing mechanism for environmental protection; and (iii) pilot projects in
compliance and monitoring. An estimated US$33 million of the combined cost of the two
operations will contribute directly towards environmental improvements. US$16.0 million of this
amount is estimated to contribute specifically towards biodiversity conservation and is, therefore,
considered part of the incremental cost of the GEF altemative. The remaining US$17.0 million is
considered part of the baseline.
ii)    USAID's Biodiversity Support Program, which is running regional workshops to identify
conservation priorities and implementing an NGO small grants program for Crimean nature
conservation activities (US$250,000).
iii)    Birdlife International activities including establishment of a field center and inventory of
field sites and migratory waterbird status (US$50,000).
iv)    United Kingdom's Darwin Initiative, which is supporting protected area planning for
wetlands and steppe areas in the Black Sea region (US$35,000).
v)     European Union activities targeted towards coastal conservation in the project area
(US$S5,000).
10.   Costs. Total expenditures under the Baseline Scenario are estimated at US$22.94 million,
- 50 -



including US$5.6 million from the Government of Ukraine and US$17.34 million through international
cooperation.
11.   Benefits. Implementation of the Baseline Scenario will result in improved wastewater quality
discharged into the Black Sea, limited protection of biodiversity in coastal areas and limited public
awareness of the need for biodiversity conservation. However, marginal government resources directed to
terrestrial, marine and wetland biodiversity in general and migratory waterbird species in particular are
unlikely to ensure protection of globally significant biodiversity. NGO efforts will serve to marginally
increase awareness of threats to biodiversity in the region. In terms of protecting biodiversity in
Azov-Black Sea corridor, however, it is unlikely that the limited expenditures will have a significant impact
in slowing agricultural encroachment into fragile habitats.
Global Environmental Objective
12.   As a consequence of the current course of action, regarded as the Baseline Scenario, the Black Sea
corridor will likely continue to lose marine, wetlands and upland communities, and hence the unique animal
and plant species dependent upon these habitats. This is due to encroachment upon the Black Sea coastline
for agricultural and aquaculture activities as well as pollution from domestic, municipal and industrial
wastes. Given the present pressures of agricultural and other competing denmands on environmental
resources along the coastline, as well as the limited local capacity to protect these areas, the loss of marine,
wetland, and upland areas will continue to threaten millions of migratory waterbirds which pass through the
Mediterranean en route to Africa each year.
13.   Scope. The GEF Alternative would build on the Baseline Scenario by developing and implementing
a network of marine and terrestrial protected areas in the ecological corridor along the northwest shelf of
the Black Sea; building capacity at the regional and local level to support decentralized conservation
management; standardizing biodiversity monitoring efforts; expanding public awareness; supporting
international cooperation aimed at protecting endangered migratory waterbirds, and demonstrating
biodiversity-friendly agricultural practices. GEF funds have been critical for leveraging increased
counterpart financing for protected areas management from the Government of Ukraine, local oblast
governments and private donors, and the following parallel financing and co-financing:
i)    The U.K. Department of International Development (DFID) is financing technical
assistance for protected areas management, including management plan preparation, staff training,
community participation in protected areas management, and environmental education
(US$400,000).
ii)    Wetlands International, with funding from the Dutch Ministry of Agriculture, will provide
technical assistance for undertaking and publishing field inventories of wetlands in the corridor,
and for annual and seasonal waterbird surveys (US$500,000).
iii)    United States Government is funding technical assistance for remote sensing and a GAP
analysis of the Azov-Black Sea corridor ($200,000).
iv)    World Wide Fund for Nature is implementing activities in conjunction with the Green
Danube program that are targeted towards wetlands conservation as well as public education
(US$3.5 million).
v)    The Danish Government is contributing funds to support management of project activities,
- 51 -



especially protected area corridor planning and biodiversity-friendly agricultural activities
(US$600,000).
vi)    The European Commission's Technical Assistance Program for CIS countries (TACIS) is
supporting management of protected areas around the lakes of the lower Danube that are
concentrated in the Odessa oblast, the western-most oblast of the corridor (US$2.0 million).
14.    Costs. The total cost of the GEF Altemative is estimated at US$55.44 million, detailed as follows:
(i) strengthen protected areas management - US$11.25 million (GEFfinancing - US$3.31 million); (ii)
support protected area and corridor planning, including land-use planning and monitoring - US$20.44
rnillion (GEFfinancing - US$0.61 million); (iii) build capacity and public support for biodiversity
conservation through environmental education and public awareness programs - US$9.75 million (GEF
financing - US$1.27 million); (iv) demonstrate biodiversity friendly agriculture practices - US$11.88
million (GEFfinancing - US$0.84 million); and (v) project management - USS2.12 million (GEF
financing - US$0.87 million).
15.   Benefits. Implementation of the GEF Altemative would protect unique coastal and marine
landscapes and numerous threatened endemic species, as well as enhance the region's function as an
internationally important flyway for waterbirds and other species. Benefits generated from the project
would include those classified as "national" - protection of local and regional environmental resources and
increased public awareness of environmental issues - as well as those considered "global" in nature. Global
benefits would include the protection of migratory waterbirds, marine environments and species-rich steppe
communities which support a large number of endemic plant and animal species, as well as outreach to and
involvement of local communities and local governments in biodiversity conservation.
Incremental Costs
16.   The difference between the cost of the Baseline Scenario (US$22.94 million) and the cost of the
GEF. Alternative (US$55.44 million) is estimated at US$32.5 million. This represents the incremental cost
for achieving global environmental benefits. Parallel and co-financing have been secured from bilateral
donors for US$7.2 million, and the associated IBRD Program Adjustment Loan and Land Privatization
Project will contribute US$16.0 million. In addition, the Government of Ukraine has committed to
financing US$1.7 million from its own resources to complement GEF funding; oblast governments are
providing US$0.4 million and counterpart financing requirements for the small grants program and
donations from local businesses are contributing USSO.3 million. A GEF grant of US$6.9 million is
proposed.
- 52 -



Incremental Cost Matrix
Component Sector     Cost Category      US$           Domestic Benefits             Global Benefits
Million
Protected Areas       Baseline         3.34        Limited capacity to plan and
management                                         implement protected area
management in wetland and
upland sites
With GEF         11.25                                   Sustainable integrated
Alternative                                              conservation management at
priority sites of internationally
important biological diversity
and buffer zones; meaningful
participation of local
stakeholders in protected area
management activities.
Increment        7.91
Protected area and    Baseline          14.40      Limited capacity to develop
corridor planning                                  a network of protected areas
in Azov-Black Sea corridor
With GEF         20.44                                   Increased local, national and
Altemative                                               international understanding
of threats to globally
significant biodiversity in
Azov-Black Sea corridor
Increment        6.04
Public support for    Baseline         2.60        Public awareness of
biodiversity                                       environmental issues and
conservation                                       the need for sustainable
natural resource
management
With GEF         9.75                                    Increased local, national and
Alternative                                              international understanding
of threats to globally
significant biodiversity in
Azov-Black Sea corridor and
increased support conserve it
Increment        7.15
Biodiversity friendly    Baseline      2.60        Limited low-impact
agriculture practices                              agricultural practices
With GEF         11.88                                   Reduced impacts on coastal
Alternative                                              and marine biodiversity from
- 53 -



agricultural practices;
increased awareness and use
of biodiversity-friendly
agricultural activities
Increment       9.28
Project management    Baseline       0.00       Not applicable
and information
dissemination
With GEF        2.12                                  Not applicable
Altemative
Increment       2.12
Totals               Baseline        22.94
With GEF        55.44
Altemative
Increment       32.50
-54-



Annex 5: Financial Summary
UKRAINE: Azov Black Sea Corridor Biodiversity Conservation
Years Ending
IMPLEMEATION PER.JOD
|Year1 I    Year 2  |Year 3  |Year 4  |Year 5  |Year 6  rYear7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs             0.9         1.9        2.4        1.8         1.1        0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs              0.3         0.2        0.2         0.3        0.2        0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs            1.2         2.1        2.6        2.1         1.3        0.0        0.0
Total Financing                 1.2        2.1         2.6        2.1         1.3        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                    0.8         1.6        2.0         1.5        1.0        0.0        0.0
Government                  0.4         0.5        0.5         0.5        0.2        0.0        0.0
Central                  0.3        0.4         0.4        0.4         0.2       0.0         0.0
Provincial               0.1        0.1         0.1        0.1        0.0        0.0        0.0
Co-financiers               0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries     0.0         0.0        0.1         0.1        0.1        0.0        0.0
Others                      0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing       1.2         2.1        2.6         2.1        1.3       0.0         0.0
Main assumptions:
The line for IBRD/IDA financing refers to the GEF contribution. Costs do not include US$16.0 million in
associated IBRD fumds or US$7.2 million in parallel financing.
-55-



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
UKRAINE: Azov Black Sea Corridor Biodiversity Conservation
Procurement
Summarv of Procurement Procedures
Proposed procurement arrangements are summarized in Tables A and Al. Consulting services, goods and
works financed by the Bank shall be procured in accordance to Bank procurement guidelines. All other
procurement information, including capability of the implementing agency, estimated dates for publication
of General Procurement Notice and the Bank's review process is presented in Tables B and B 1.
Project Implementation Unit. The Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (MENR) is the
implementing government agency for this project, responsible also for policy guidance. A Project
Implementation Unit (Interecocentre), under the supervision of MENR, will be responsible for
procurement, accounting, financial reporting and auditing. Interecocentre served as Government's PIU for
three earlier GEF grants and, as a result, has extensive experience managing projects in accordance with
World Bank guidelines. Interecocentre will be responsible for (i) the whole cycle of procurement of all
works, goods and services under the project, including filing/record keeping of all related operations and
activities; (ii) assisting MENR to prepare an annual work program and budget, which will be approved by
the Bank; and (iii) coordinating the delivery of technical assistance provided by international consultants.
Procurement Capacity Assessment. An assessment of the PlU's capacity to implement the project's
procurement plan was carried out in September of 2000. The review addressed legal aspects, procurement
cycle management, organizations and functions, support and control systems, record keeping, staffing,
general procurement environment and made a general risk assessment of the PIU. The review rated the
project's risk with regard to procurement as high. The following actions are advised to be implemented to
mitigate this risk:
i) Allocate project funds for activities that address the project's high risk rating, including sending
Interecocentre's procurement specialist to courses on international procurement for projects
financed by the World Bank Group.
ii) Outsource a consultant knowledgeable (and with concrete experience) of procurement, as per
Bank procurement rules, to start working on the procurement documentation and to assist
Interecocentre in dealing with complex procurement activities and provide on-hands training to its
staff. In order to expedite project procurement, this consultant should be sitting at Interecocentre
for the first year of the project, with a second phase period to cope with the flow of procurement
work on a "as needed basis", say 3 or 4 times a year. Considering the urgency of the task and the
non-fluency in English of the two Interecocentre procurement staff, a Russian- or
Ukrainian-speaking person should be hired. Hiring this consultant must be a condition sine qua
non to commence the procurement of goods, works and technical assistance services under the
proposed loan.
iii)    During the first year of project implementation the PAS for this project -- or a
procurement accredited staff-- should participate in two supervision missions. This frequency may
change to once a year as (and if) the procurement capacity of Interecocentre is improved. During
supervision missions the PAS for this project will allocate time for consultations with the staff on
- 56 -



practical procurement cases.
iv) A provision in the Procurement Schedule of the Loan Agreement will be made for IS, stating
that procurement of vehicles, office equipment and computer hardware through IAPSO as an
alternative to Intemational Shopping procedure. Also, the BorTower is welcome to invite IAPSO to
compete with other suppliers in procurement of those goods under Intemational Shopping
Procedures.
v) It is further recommended that the current procurement officer acquire more working
knowledge of the English language to effectively handle international procurement. He should also
be trained or attend procurement courses, before grant effectiveness, if possible.
(vi) A procurement book containing the Bank's standard procurement documents will be provided
to Interecocentre during project negotiations.
(vii) The project launch workshop should devote adequate time to updating Interecocentre staff
procurement skills. During this workshop, the contents of the procurement book should be
explained to Interecocentre procurement staff
(viii) A minimum of ten contracts representing different procurement methods (not subject to prior
Bank review) should be reviewed by the Project Procurement Accredited Staff on an ex-post basis
during the supervision missions;
(ix) Thresholds for prior review of contracts and per procurement method will be reasonably on the
lower side until a follow-up review on Intereconcentre's procurement capacity indicated the need
for a revision to increase them.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Goods and works will be procured in accordance with the provisions ol the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and
August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999. The appropriate standard procurement documents
issued by the Bank will be used with the minimum changes acceptable to the Bank.
Participation of Government Owned Enterprises (GOEs) in procurement of goods and works. GOEs
willing to participate in procurement of works and goods financed by the Bank in this project should meet
the Bank's eligibility criteria: they should be financially and legally autonomous and operate under
commercial law in Ukraine. Their status has to be properly clarified by interested GOEs before
participating in any bid under this project.
Procurement of Civil Works (US$0.71 million). Civil works are intended for construction and/or
renovation of visitor centers, observation towers, informnation kiosks, trails and boat piers, planting and
ecosystem restoration activities at the project sites, and for technical services/works to demarcate protected
area boundaries. The following methods of procurement would be used:
National Competitive Bidding or NCB for Works (US$0.40 million). NCB procedures will be applied
for works contracts estimated to cost below US$250,000. For these contracts the ECA Regional Bank
standard NCB documents will be used. All contracts will be advertised in the national press or official
gazette, to ensure that a wide range of contractors, including foreign contractors, if interested, can have the
- 57 -



opportunity to bid.
Procurement of Minor Civil Works or MCW (US$0.31 million). Minor civil works contracts with an
estimated cost below USS50,000. These works will be procured under lump-sum, fixed price or unit rate
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified local contractors in
response to local advertisement. The bidding document shall include a detailed description of works,
including basic specifications, the required completion period, a basic form of agreement consistent with
the standard document to be cleared by the Bank and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall
be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for work and who has the experience and
resources to successfully complete the contract. A list of qualified contractors should be formed --and
periodically updated-- by the PIU by requesting at least every six months expressions of interest and
relevant information from local contractors while advertising local minor civil works contract opportunities.
Procurement of Goods (US$1.86 millon). Vehicles, radio communication equipment, boats and outboard
motors, information technology, audio-visual equipment, field equipment, agricultural equipment, furniture,
prefab warden stations, office equipment and supplies will be grouped to the extent practical to encourage
competitive bidding. The following methods will be used:
International Competitive Bidding or ICB (US$0.90 million). Goods contracts for procurement of
vehicles, boats and outboard motors, information technology, radio-communication and agriculture
equipment estimated to cost above US$100,000 or more will be procured through ICB procedures.
National Competitive Bidding (US$0.34 miDion). Goods contracts with an estimated cost lest than
USS 100,000 for the procurement of prefab warden stations (wooden houses) will be procured through
NCB procedures using ECA standard NCB bidding documents. All contracts will be advertised in the
national press or official gazette, to ensure that a wide range of contractors, including foreign contractors,
if interested, have the opportunity to bid. It is envisaged that 2-3 packages of these prefab houses will be
needed. Given the existence of several established local suppliers in Ukraine, it is unlikely that foreign
companies would bid, since the contract will include delivery and set up. However, no foreign company
would be disqualify, should it bid for these contracts.
International Shopping or IS (US$0.22 million). Contracts for the procurement of information
technology and field equipment estimated to cost less than USS I00,000 may be procured under IS
procedures by obtaining competitive price quotations from at least three suppliers in two different
countries. Award through IAPSO would be acceptable as an altemative to IS, and IAPSO could be invited
as a supplier under the said IS procedures.
National Shopping or NS (US$0.38 million). Goods contracts for vehicles, information technology, audio
visual equipment, information signs, field equipment, furniture, seeds, published materials and agriculture
equipment estimated at $50,000 or less may be procured through using NS procedures.
Procurement of Consultants' Services (US$2.69 million). Contracts for consultants' services will be
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January of 1997 and revised in
September 1997 and January, 1999. The services financed under the grant are: technical assistance for
protected area management and monitoring, land use planning, agricultural land use planning and public
awareness, regional and other studies and small grant program management, etc. Selection of Consultants
and their contracts will be based on the standard documents issued by the Bank for the procurement of such
- 58 -



services with the minimal necessary modifications as agreed by the Bank. Nongovernmental Organizations
(NGOs) can compete in the selection process under the provisions of Bank Guidelines, provided that they
have expressed their interest in doing so, and that their qualifications are satisfactory to both the
Government and the Bank.
Selection of firms (US$1.75 million). Quality-and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) will be the preferred
method for selection of firms in contracts with estimated values above US$ 100,000. QCBS method will be
used to select the technical assistance for designing and implementing the land use planning program and
agriculture small grants program. Due to the nature and relatively small size (estimated to cost S203,000)
of the latter assignment, it is preferable that bidding for this contract be limited to eligible local firms and
NGOs. Least Cost Selection Method will be applied to procurement of consultants to develop and maintain
a corridor monitoring database, create a nature corridor map, organize international conferences, manage
the biodiversity small grants program, implement the second phase of land use planning, and carry out
annual audits. Services for developing a nature corridor and protected area plan, monitoring and education
programs, field studies, field guides and designing and supervising civil works, etc., estimated to cost less
than $100,000 may be procured following selection based on Consultants Qualifications (CQ).
Selection of Individuals (US$0.44). Unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, individual consultants will be
selected on the basis of their qualifications for the assignment by comparing at least 3 CVs from potential
eligible candidates. All consultancy positions estimated to cost $10,000 or more will be advertised.
Small grants (US$1.0 million financed by the Bank). Small grants to encourage public awareness of
biodiversity and corridor conservation, sustainable resource use, park development, park-friendly business
activities and biodiversity-fiiendly agriculture practices will be awarded to project beneficiaries on a
competitive basis at each of the project sites. The mechanisms for awarding these grants, including
establishing grant comnmnittees and developing eligibility criteria, procedures for application and a
monitoring system, will be determined within the first year of project implementation with the participation
of local stakeholders and will be submitted for the Bank's approval before implementation. Small grants in
an average of $4,000, will be available for consultant services, goods, and works, for a maximum amount
of USS25,000 for each grant. We can envision application of commercial practices for procurement below
$ 10,000, while national shopping procedures will be applied for procurement of goods estimated to cost
$10,000 and above.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions.
Goods and Works: The following contracts are subject to Bank's prior review as set forth in paragraphs
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines: (i) all ICB contracts; (ii) all contracts for goods and works to be
procured through NCB; (iii) the first two contracts procured under IS procedures, the first two contracts
procured under NS procedures and the first two contracts procured for Minor Civil Works are subject to
pnor review.
Consultants: With respect to consulting services, prior Bank review will be required for all termns of
reference for consultant services. Contracts for services estimated to cost the equivalent of S 100,000 or
more for firms are subject to Bank's prior review as set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines, as well as the first two contracts procured through LCS and CQ. For contracts with
individuals amounting to $25,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of
employment shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to contract signature. All other
contracts are subject to post review (one in 5 contracts). With respect to the selection of individuals, all
- 59 -



consultancy positions estimnated to coSIt 510,000 or rnore will be advertised.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
r                    Procurement Method
Expenditure Category       i       ICB               NCB           Other          N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                                0.00        r    0.40            0.31           0.00         0.71
I   (.0 ())        (0.32)          (0.25)         (0.00)       (0.57)
2. Goods                                0.90             0.36            0.60           0.00         1.86
I      (0).90()         (0.29)          (0.42)         (0.00)       (1.61)
3. Services                             .o00             0.00            2.69           0.30         2.99
Training & Workshops                                     (0(10.00)  (0)  (2.69)        (0.00)       (2.69)
4. Small Grants                I        0.)o             0.00            1.12           0.00         1.12
I______   ((0.00)        (0.00)         (1.00)         (0.00)       (1.00)
5. Incremental Operating                0.00             0.00            1.14           0.00         1.14
Costs                                  (0.00)            (0.00)         (1.03)         (0.00)       (1.03)
6. Recurrent Costs                      0.00             0.00            0.00           0.89         0.89
j      (0.00)            (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                                0.90             0.76            5.86           1.19         8.71
(0.90)           (0.61)          (5.39)        (0.00)        (6.90)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies.
Includes civil works and goods to be procured through commercial practices, national shopping,
consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical
assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to managing the project.
Incremental Operating Costs include: incremcntal expenses incurred on account of project management
and monitoring, including office supplies and materials, postage, promotional materials, press releases
and software upgrades, travel, operations and maintenance costs for vehicles and boats; and staff,
cornmunications and office space for tne PlU only.
Recurrent Costs are financed 100% by Ciovernment and include protected area staff salaries and costs for
legally establishing the protected areas.
- 60 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category   QCBS    QBS    SFB    LCS      CQ     Other   N.B.F. Total Cost
A. Firms              0.38    0.00    0.00    0.53     0.84    0.00    0.30     2.05
(0.38)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.53)   (0.84)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (1.75)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.44    0.00     0.44
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.44)  (0.00)   (0.44)
Total  0.38    0.00    0.00    0.53     0.84    0.44    0.30     2.49
(0.38)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.53)   (0.84)  (0.44)  (0.00)   (2.19)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Training,
Workshops and Study tours, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.
- 61 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                                Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)             Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works                      > 250,000                 ICB                     0.41
< 250,000                 NCB
< 50,000                 MCW
2. Goods                      > 100,000                 ICB                      1.47
<100,000                 NCB
< 100,000                  Is
< 50,000                  NS
<10,000                   CP
3. Services                   > 100,000                QCBS                      0.7
< 100,000               LCS, CQ
IND
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   2.58
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
* NCB for goods <US$100,000 is only for the procurement of prefabricated wooden houses.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 62 -



Disbursement
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
Disbursements will follow normal Bank procedures and will be made against the categories of expenditures
indicated in Table C. The proceeds of the proposed project area expected to be disbursed over a period of
five years. The anticipated completion date is December 31, 2006, and the closing date is June 30, 2007.
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million          Financing Percentage
Civil Works                                0.57                          80%
Goods                                       1.61              100% of foreign expenditures
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
costs) and 80% of local expenditures for
other items procured locally
Consultant Services, Training and          2.69                         100%
Workshops
Small Grants                               1.00                         100%
Incremental Operating Costs                 1.03                         95%
Total Project Costs                        6.90
Total                                      6.90          _
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Project funds will be disbursed under the Bank's/IBRD's established procedures, including Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs). During project negotiations, the recipient indicated it is not planning to move to
Project Management Reports (PMR-) based disbursements. The Minutes of Negotiation identifies the
additional PMRs that would be required to be produced by the Project Implementation Unit if, based on
mutual agreement of the recipient and the Bank/IBRD, the project eventually moves to PMR-based
disbursements.
Use of Statements of Expenditures: Withdrawal applications would be fully documented, except for
expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods valued at less than US$50,000 each; (b) contracts for works
less than US$50,000 each; and (c) contracts for consulting firms costing less than US$100,000 equivalent,
and contracts for individual consultants costing less than US$50,000 equivalent; (d) expenses for training;
(e) all small grant contracts; and (f) all incremental operating costs.
Special account:
Special Account (SA&: To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures under the Grant account,
the Government will establish a Special Account (SA) in a commercial bank to be operated by the PIU
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The authorized allocation of the SA amounts to
US$500,000 equivalent. Upon effectiveness, the Bank will provide for an advance of US$250,000
representing 50% of the authorized allocation. When the total funds withdrawn from the Grant Account
amount to US$2.0 million, the beneficiaries may withdraw the remaining balance amounting to
US$250,000 equivalent. Replenishment applications should be submitted monthly. These applications
would be fully documented, except in the case where disbursements are made on the basis of Statements of
- 63 -



Expenditure (SOEs) or Project Management Reports (PMRs), and would in all circumstances be supported
by appropriate SA reconciliation statements and bank statements. The SA will be maintained by the
central PIU and audited as part of the annual project auditing requirements (see further details below).
Financial Management:
Financial Management Assessment: Responsibility for the financial management of the project will be that
of the InterEcoCentre (CPIU). The Bank/IBRD conducted a financial management assessment of the CPIU
and at the time of appraisal confirmed that it does not satisfy the Bank's/IBRD's minimum financial
management requirements. It was agreed that five improvements would be addressed prior to Board
presentation, each of which has been completed: (i) the preparation of a draft accounting manual; (ii) the
development of a revised spreadsheet system to enable the CPIU to prepare Project Management Reports
(PMRs) IA (Source and Uses of Funds), lB (Uses of Funds by Project Activity) and IE (Special Account
Statement); (iii) the selection of the bank in which the Special Accounts will be housed and thus the
finalization of the project's flow of funds; (iv) the finalization of the audit terms of reference; and (v) the
presentation to the Bank/IBRD of a short-list of auditors acceptable to the Bank/IBRD. During project
negotiations, the recipient indicated that it does not plan to move to PMR-based disbursements.
Financial management accountabilityframework: The financial management accountability framework
of Ukraine has not been the subject of a detailed review by the Bank/IBRD. However, primarily because of
other implementation considerations, any weaknesses that may exist in that framework has been mitigated
for this project by the appointment of the InterEcoCentre (PIU) as the project implementing agency, an
agency with considerable experience of implementing similar projects, and requiring the Bank's/IBRD's
no-objection to both the auditors and the terms of reference in respect of the audits required by the project.
Additionally, weaknesses in the Ukraine banking sector will be mitigated by the use of a bank deemed
eligible by the Bank/IBRD to house the project's Special Accounts. However, these weaknesses neither
compromise the fiduciary responsibilities of the recipient nor of the Bank/IBRD.
Project Management Reports (PMRs): Project management-oriented PMRs will be used for project
monitoring and supervision. The formats of the PMRs are included in the Minutes of Negotiations. The
PIU will produce a full set of PMRs for every calendar quarter throughout the life of the project beginning
with the period ending 18 months after Board presentation, however, the financial PMRs IA, I B and IE as
well as the four procurement PMRs, 3A, 3B, 3C and 3D, will be produced from project effectiveness.
Disbursements: Project funds will be initially disbursed under the Bank's/IBRD's established procedures,
including Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). As discussed above, during project negotiations, the recipient
indicated it is not planning to move to Project Management Reports (PMR-) based disbursements.
Audit Arrangements: Audits by independent auditors and on terms of reference both acceptable to the
Bank/IBRD will be conducted throughout project implementation of- the project financial statements;
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), or PMRs if used as the basis of disbursement; Special Accounts; and
the InterEcoCentre. As discussed above, the Bank has cleared the audit terms of reference and the PIU has
submitted a short-list of auditors acceptable to the Bank/IBRD, which were conditions of Board
presentation. The audits will be procured by the PIU through Least-Cost Selection and the selection of the
project's auditors is condition of project effectiveness. The audited financial statements / reports together
with the auditor's reports and opinions will be presented to the Bank/IBRD no later than six months after
the end of each fiscal year and also at the closing of the project. The contract for the audit will be extended
from year-to-year with the same auditor, subject to satisfactory performance. The cost of the audit will be
financed from the proceeds of the GEF Grant as an incremental operating cost.
- 64 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
UKRAINE: Azov Black Sea Corridor Biodiversity Conservation
Project Schedule                                  Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      30                           45
First Bank mission (identification)             10/15/1997                   10/15/1997
Appraisal mission departure                     10/15/2000                   02/16/2001
Negotiations                                    01/15/2001                   07/19/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   04/15/2001                      ___
Prepared by:
Ukraine Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, InterEcocentre
NGO
Preparation assistance:
GEF Project Preparation Grant of US$250,000
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Phillip Bryiski                   Task Team Leader; Sr. Biodiversity Specialist
Charis Wuerffel                   Operations Analyst
Alexei Slenzak                    Projects Officer
Marjory-Anne Bromhead             Sector Manager; Quality Assurance
Jose Martinez                     Procurement Analyst
Ranjan Ganguli                    Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Kishor Uprety                     Legal Counsel
Jonathan Pavluk                   Senior Legal Counsel
Janis Bernstein                   Senior Social Scientist
Jan Post                          Peer Reviewer, Sr. Environmental Affairs Specialist
Gail Lee                          Program Assistant
- 65 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
UKRAINE: Azov Black Sea Corridor Biodiversity Conservation
A. Project Implementation Plan
The PIP includes the following:
1. Implementation arrangements
2. PIU staffing and job descriptions
3. Detailed cost tables
4. Financial management operational procedures
5. Procurement Capacity Assessment
6. Procurement Plan
7. Implementation Schedule
B. Bank Staff Assessments
i. Procurement Capacity Assessment, by Procurement Specialis
2. Financial Management Assessment, by Sr. Financial Management Specialist
3. Social Assessment, by Kiev Intemational Institute of Sociology
4. Environmental Management Plan
C. Other
Ukrainian legal documents
Verkhovna Rada. 2000. Law on the State Program of Fornation of the National Ecological
Network for 2000-2015 of Ukraine.
Verkhovna Rada. 1995. The Water Code of Ukraine.
Verkhovna Rada. 1992. Law of Ukraine On the Nature Reserve Fund
Verkhovna Rada. 1992. The Land Code of Ukraine.
Verkhovna Rada. 1992. The Law on Environmental Protection.
Ministry of Environment and Nuclear Safety. 1998. Ukraine National Biodiversity Strategy
and Action Plan. Adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in 1998.
Ministry of Enviromnent and Nuclear Safety. 1998. Concept of the Protection and Recovery
of the Environment of the Azov and Black Seas. Adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers of
Ukraine in 1998.
Central Board for Protected Areas. 2000. The procedures for creation of Natural Parks.
Methodological Recommendations. Kiev (in Russian).
Regional Conservation Planning Documents
Black Sea Environment Program. 1996. Transboundary diagnostic analysis.
World Bank/Wetlands International. 1994. Conservation of Black Sea wetlands: a
preliminary action plan.
- 66 -



Documents prepared under UK Environment Know How Funds to Flora and Fauna
International as support to establishment of Meotida Regional Landscape Park:
Management prescriptions and stakeholder consultation results for Sivash National Park and
Meotida Regional Landscape Park
Ukraine. Strengthening Management Capacity in National Parks, Inception Report, January
2000
Strengthening Management Capacity in National Parks - Ukraine. Supported by DFID. Trip
Report, 27 February - 7 March 2000
Planning and Creating the New Lukomorea Nation Park in Donetsk Oblast, Ukraine on the
Azov Sea. Provisional Workshop Output
Scientific background on the creation of the regional landscape park "Meotida".
Documents prepared under the Wetlands International program
Wetlands of International Importance of Ukraine, Kiev - 2000
Programme and Action Plan for Waterbird Monitoring in the Azov-Black Sea Region of the
Ukraine, Kiev - 2000
Sivash - the lagoon between two seas. Kiev, 2000 (brochure)
Current Status of Sivash. Kiev, 2000 (in Russian). A collection of scientific papers
Numbers and distribution of breeding waterbirds in the wetlands of Azov-Black Sea Region of
Ukraine, Kiev-2000 (in Russian)
Bibliography of Wetlands of the Azov-Black Sea Region of Ukraine. Kiev, 2000 (in Russian)
Support for the conservation of wetlands and wetland species in the Azov-Black Sea region of
Ukraine project. Work plans for 1997-1999
Wetland strategy development, Ukraine 19 August 1999
Documents prepared under preparation for the proposed Sivash National Nature Park
Feasibility Study for the Establishment of the National Park 'Sivashsky'
Scientific Background for establishment of the National Park 'Sivashsky' (in Russian) - 1998
Evaluation of the status of the biodiversity and basic problems management plan of the
National Park 'Sivashsky' (in Russian) - 1999
Sub component: Creation of the Objects Nature-Reserve Fund (in Russian)
*Including electronic files
- 67 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
UKRAINE: Azov Black Sea Corridor Biodiversity Conservation
07-Dec-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                               disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                        IBRD          IDA                  GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Revd
P069858       2002 SIF                                                50.21       0.00                  0.00       0.00     50.21       0.00       0.00
P070693       2002 PAL                                               250.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00    100.00    -150.00       0.00
P035786       2001 LVIV WATERIWW                                      24.25       0.00                  0.00       0.00     24.25       0.33       0.00
P055738       2001 SEVASTOPOL HEAT SUPPLY IMPROVEMENT                 28.20       0.00                  0.00       0.00     28.19       2.33       0.00
P055739       2000 KIEV PB ENERGY EFFIC                               18.29       0.00                  0.00      0.00      17.41       2.36       0.00
P049174       1998 TREASURY SYSTEMS                                   16.40       0.00                  0.00       0.00     12.89      11.38       3.19
P044728       1998 ODS PHASE-OUT (GEF)                                 0.00       0.oo                 23.20      0.00       9.84      10.73      -5.54
P044832       1998 KIEV DISTRICT HEAT.                               200.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     187.15     96.89      33.58
P044851       1997 EXPORT DEVELOPMENT                                 70.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00      18.72      16.93      0.00
P038820       1995 HYDROPOWER REHAB                                   114.00      0.00                  0.00      14.16      27.78     41.94       3.12
Total:     771.35        0.00               23.20       14.16      476.45      32.89      34.35
- 68 -



UKRAINE
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
December 2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1998               Creditanstalt Uk               0.00    2.28     0.00    0.00    0.00    2.28      0.00    0.00
1996               FUIB                           0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00       0.00    0.00
2000               MBU                            0.00     1.70    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.70      0.00    0.00
1994/96            Ukraine VC Fund                0.00     1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.15      0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:         0.00    10.48    0.00     0.00    0.00   10.13     0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
1996               FUIB                             10.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1998               Creditanstalt Uk                  5.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
2000               MBU                               5.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
2001               Okean Shipyard                   10.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        30.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
- 69 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
UKRAINE: Azov Black Sea Corridor Biodiversity Conservation
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             Central      Low-
Ukraine      Asia  income         Development dlamond*
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                         49.5       475     2.459                  Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$J                      790      2,010       420
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                        39.3       956      1,030
Average annual growth. 1994-00
Population (%)                                          -0.7       0.1        1.9                   _G
Labor force1%)                                          -1.1       0.6        2.4     GNI                              pGross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                                 capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)    28
Urban Dopulation /% of total PoPuletion)                 68         67        32
Life exDectancy at birth (Years)                         68         69        59
Infant mortalitv (per 1,000 live births)                 12         21        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                ..        ..         ..           Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)    100         90        76
Illiteracy % of population age 15-)                       2          3        38
Gross primary enrollment (19 of school-age population)  100        100        96             -Ukraine
Male                                                  100        101       102                   Low-income group
Female                                                100         99        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990       1999      2000
GDP (US$ billions)                              ,,    91.3        39.4       35.3
Gross domestic investment/GDP                    ..    27.5       17.4       18.6
Exports of aoods and services/GDP                ..    27.6       53.7      61.5                      Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                      ,,    26.4        23.0       23.0
Gross national savinqs/GDP                      ..    35.9        22.6       23.3
Current account balance/GDP                      ..    -5.5        4.0        4,2     Domestic                      Investment
Interest Dayments/GDP                            ..       ..       1.4        1.7     saings
Total debt/GDP                                   ..       ..      35.5       35.6     savings
Total debt service/exPortS                      ..        ..      17.1       19.3
Present value of debt/GDP                        ..       ..      32.2       32.3
Present value of debtexports                    ..        ..      72.8       56.3                  Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00      1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual qrowth)
GDP                                    ..    -9.4       -0.2       5.8        3.5                   t/kraine
GDP per capita                         ..    -8.9        0.6       6.7        4.3                    Low-income group
Exports of goods and services          ..    -3.2       -7.9      13.8        3.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990       1999      2000      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Aqriculture                                     ..    25.6        14.3       13.8     20
Industry                                        ..    44,6        37.7       38.5
Manufacturing                                  ..      8.5        5.0       4.6      0                        vs         D0
Services                                         ..    29.9       48.0       47.7    -40
Private consumption                              ..    57.1       57.2       58.2    .60
General qovernment consumption                  ..    16.5        19.8       18.7                Gol           -   GDP
Imports of goods and services                   ,,    28.7        48.2      57.0
1980-90  1990-00       1999      2000      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                     ..    -5.8        -4.2        5.9    150
lndustrv                                               -11.4       3.0       10.9    100
Manufacturinq                                  ..   -11.2         5.5      12.8
Services                                               -11.3       0.3        5.5 6_-
Private consumption                              ,,    -6.6        2.8        5.1                         r                00
General Qovernment consumption                  ..    -5.4       -17.6       -1.9    -50
Gross domestic investment                       ,,   -20.2       -14.4       21.8            E-poert.           *mIports
Imports of ooods and services                   ..    -2.7       -19.1       17.5
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv lin bold) compared with its income-qroup average. If data are missina. the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 70 -



Ukraine
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990       1999     2000      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                        0.
(% change)                                                                           1$C
Consumer prces                                  ..        ..      19.2      25.8    1osa
Implicit GDP deflator                           ..    16.4        27.4      25.3
500
Govemment finance
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                                     o
Current revenue                                 ..       ..       33.8      35.6               ss   9w   97   98   99    o
Current budget balance                           .                 -1.9     -0.9            - GDP deflator    e  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         ..        ..      -2.0      -1.3
TRADE
1980     1990       1999     2000       Export and import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                              .        ..   13,189    15,722      2S,000
Ferrous and non-precious metals                ..       ..    4,874      6,468
Mineral products                               ..       ..      1,419     1,377
Manufactures                                   ..       ..      1,981    2,584      1$,000
Total imports (cif)                             ..        ..    12,945    14,943     10.000
Food                                           ..       ..       902       908
Fuel and energy                                ..       ..     5,441     6,419      s
Capital goods                                  .,       ..      2,255    2,625         
94  95  96  97  98  99  00
Export price index (1995=100)                    ..      ..         95        97
Importprice index (1995=100)                    ..       ..        113       115                 * Exports     MImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        ..       ..        84        84
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1980     1990       1999     2000       Current account balance to GDP
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                   ..       ..   16,960    19,522       s
Imports of goods and services                   ..       ..    15,237    18,116
Resource balance                                 ..      ..      1,723     1,406     4 -_
Net income                                       ..      ..       -869      -942      2
Net current transfers                           ..        ..       706     1,017
Current account balance                         ..  -5,063       1,560     1,481
Financing items (net)                           ..       ..    -1,277    -1,083
Changes in net reserves                         ..        ..      -283      -398    .4
Memo:
Reserves includinq qold (US$ millions)          ..       ..      1,094     1,431
Conversion rate (DEC. IocallUS$)                 ..  1.83E-5       3.3       4.9
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990       1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                        Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            ..        ..   14,019    12,579
IBRD                                                           1,954     1,991                     G: 604    A: 1,991
IDA                                            .        ..         0         0
Total debt service                               ..       ..    2,994      3,914
IBRD                                           ..      ..         96       142
IDA                                           ..       ..          0         0
Composition of net resource flows                                                      F: 4,895
Official grants                               ..       ..         38         -
Official creditors                            ..       ..        287    -1,060
Prvate creditors                              ..       ..       -130      332                                    D:377
Foreign direct investment                      ..      ..        496      750
Portfolio equity                              ..       ..          0       80                             E. 2,639
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                   ..       ..        600        18      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 ..       ..        422       113      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                          ..       ..          2        24     C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Netflows                                      ..       ..       420         88
Interest payments                             ..       ..         94      118
Net transfers                                 ..       ..        326      -29
Development Economics                                                                                                    915101
-71 -



Additional
Annex 11
Social Assessment and Stakeholder Participation Plan
1.    The results of a Social Assessment (SA) and consultations on two proposed national parks were
incorporated into the project to improve the effectiveness of the project design by identifying and mitigating
potential social risks. The social assessment was based on household surveys and discussions with focus
groups in the Golaya Pristan and Skadovsk districts of Kherson oblast. Separate management planning
workshops were held with user groups, individuals, and representatives of local, regional, and national
government from the areas of the proposed Preazovsky and Sivash National Parks.
2.     The objectives of the SA were to: (i) identify key stakeholders (beneficiaries, affected people and
institutions, donor organizations), their interests (complementary and competing), and their roles in natural
resource protection; (ii) identify community activities that are threatening biodiversity in project areas; (iii)
determine the values, attitudes, and interests of key actors toward land use, conservation, and sustainable
development activities; (iv) ensure that the project's objectives and components are acceptable to key
stakeholder groups; (v) identify risks to stakeholders and mitigation of those risks; (vi) study the social and
economic situation; and (vii) develop a public participation plan to ensure stakeholder participation during
project implementation. The assessment was prepared by a multi-disciplinary team experienced in social
surveys and the preparation if participation plans.
Characteristics of the Region
3.     An estimated 7 million people live in the coastal region of Ukraine. 46% of those surveyed depend
to some extent upon natural resources for income and subsistence. For 28% of those surveyed, agricultural
products were the primary source of income for the household. The most important crops are grains,
melons, potatoes, and carrots. Dairy farming is currently increasing, after a long term decline in livestock
(mainly sheep and cattle) operations as irrigated croplands were intensified in the region. Income from the
sale of medicinal herbs, mushrooms, and berries is important. Agricultural products are mainly used for
private consumption and barter/sale (typically in the nearby urban areas of Ochakov, Nikolayev, and
Kherson). One of the key problems facing the agricultural community is scarcity of financial resources for
the purchase and repair of farm equipment, gasoline, and irrigation and drainage systems.
Government Stakeholders
4.     Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance has overall responsibility for Ukraine's financial
performance, is responsible for allocating part of the Government's financial contribution to project
implementation, and for ensuring that Bank funds are used effectively and are of benefit to the Ukrainian
people.
5.     Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources. The newly reorganized Ministry of Ecology and
Natural Resources (MENR) is responsible for environmental monitoring and protection. The MENR has
an established institutional network with clearly allocated responsibilities at national and oblast levels. The
Department of Forestry within the MENR is responsible for forest management in the project region.
6.     Crimea State Committee for Environmental Protection (CSCEP). The CSCEP is responsible for
- 72 -



implementing environmental policies, laws, and regulations in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The
CSCEP is the implementing agency for project activities in Crimea.
7.    Oblast and Rayon Administrations. The oblast administrations are responsible for implementing
the Government's environmental policy and regulations at the regional level. With regard to the project,
rayon administrations are involved in the consultation and approval process for new protected areas. Both
administrations are responsive to the needs of local communities and businesses, especially with regard to
economic development.
8.    Research and Training Institutes. Ukraine's Academy of Sciences and Agricultural Institutes have
a strong tradition in research. The Academy of Sciences is responsible for the management of selected
nature reserves and biosphere reserves, including Chomomorsky biosphere reserve which would receive
financing under the project. The Agricultural Institutes manage a network of agricultural research stations
where they carry out research on agricultural production systems and provide training to local collective
farms, which have been privatized in recent years. The Kherson Agricultural Institute has good linkages
with local farms, and would implement the training program in sustainable agriculture under component 4.
Local Communities
9.    There are five main local population groups in the project region with specific interest in the
project and the sustainable development of coastal resources. For some of these groups, however, there are
conflicts between this long-term objective and the desire for short-term economic gain:
*   Urban inhabitants with diverse recreational interests in the project region (e.g., hunting and fishing,
and picnicking and camping near the shore).
*   Urban inhabitants with dachas and garden plots in the project region, or the desire to own a dacha
there in the future.
*   Residents of urban and rural communities with interests in fisheries and other economic activities
for subsistence and supplemental income (e.g., fisheries, collection of medicinal herbs, mushrooms,
berries; garden plots for growing food).
*   Farm and fishery enterprise owners, farm workers, and individual fishermen;
National and Regional NGOs.
10.   Environmental NGOs have been increasing in nurnber and effectiveness since the transition. They
have contributed to the successes of previous initiatives and projects, including those financed by GEF, and
would play key roles in project management, implementation, and in monitoring governance issues. An
NGO is serving as the Project Implementation Unit, under the direction of MENR.. And NGO will also be
involved in managing the environmental education program in Melitopol. Local NGOs will be eligible to
apply for funding, under the small grants program, for environmental education and biodiversity
conservation activities.
Other interested organizations:
11.   Industry representatives, local companies and trade associations. Employees and trade groups of
economic enterprises (e.g., steel works companies) are frequent users of the recreational facilities in the
- 73 -



project region. Some of the recreational facilities are owned by the companies and maintained for the use
of their workers and families. The companies have indicated their interest to co-finance the management of
regional landscape parks, which are seen as a means of securing recreational opportunities.
Attitudes of Local Population Toward Project Activities and Natural Resources
12.    According to the results of the Social Assessment surveys, the most acute problems faced by the
population are unemployment and weak community and medical services. 48 percent of respondents
indicated that the highest priority is economic growth, whereas 20 percent indicated that the highest priority
was environmental protection.
13.    The social assessment found that 59% of those surveyed had a positive attitude toward the project
whereas 4 % had a negative attitude. The following findings and recommendations of the social assessment
have been incorporated into the project design:
*   the management of the Project's protected areas should emphasize multiple use of natural
resources rather than strict protection, and should ensure access to resources by local users.
*   incentives should be used to encourage sustainable use of natural resources by local communities,
rather than punitive fines.
*   the project should implement a public awareness campaign on the project to increase environmental
awareness of the ecology of the region and the impact of unsustainable development.
Participation Plan
14.    The main project stakeholders, issues of particular concem to them, and mechanisms for their
participation in the project are summarized in the table below.
- 74 -



Summary of Stakeholder Analysis and Participation Plan
Stakeholder Groups       Interests at stake in   Influence and participation of
relation to the project and        Stakeholder
impact of project on
stakeholder
Ministry of Ecology   *  Development and        *  Executing Agency, with overall
and Natural Resources    coordination of           responsibility for project
environmental policy     implementation
*  Supervision of Project   *  Chairs the Project Advisory
Implementation Unit      Committee
that will administer
project activities
Crimea State          *   Responsible for       *  Implementing agency project
Committee for            implementing              activities in Crimea
Environmental            Ukraine's              *  Member of the Project
Protection               environmental policy in   Advisory Committee
the Autonomous
Republic of Crimea.
Oblast and Rayon      *  Responsible for        *  Representative of oblasts to
Administrations          implementing national     serve on Project Advisory
environmental laws and   Committee (in rotation)
regulations at regional   *  Oblast and rayon
and local levels         administrations to serve on
*  Lead the consultation    local advisory cormmittees for
and approval process at  protected area and agriculture
regional and local       components
levels for new protected
areas                 *  Dedicate staff resources for
*  Major interest in the     implementation & coordination
welfare of regional      of project activities
populations and       *  Responsible for implementing
economic development,    land use planning (activity 1.4)
for example through      in collaboration with rayon
increased tourism.       administrations
* Finance and manage regional
landscape parks
Academy of Sciences    *  Strong record in applied  *  Chairs the Scientific Advisory
and basic research on    Committee to review/endorse
biodiversity             activities related to the
*  Manage some protected     project's scientific program
areas, including      *  Implements component 2
Chornomorsky             activities at Chomomorsky
I   Biosphere Reserve         biosphere reserve
- 75 -



