                      Document of
                    The World Bank

                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                 Report No: 36593

         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                        (TF-28267)

                      ON A GRANT


       FROM THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY

          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 5.6 MILLION
             (US$ 6.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                         TO THE
              GOVERNMENT OF UKRAINE




                         FOR A
AZOV - BLACK SEA CORRIDOR BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION

                         PROJECT

               (GEF Grant No TF028267 UA)




                      June 21, 2006

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective May 30, 2006)

                          Currency Unit = Hryvnia (UAH)
                                 UAH 1 = US$ US$ 0.198
                                 US$ 1 = UAH 5.05

                                FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1 ­ December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy
CPPR  Country Portfolio Performance Review
GEF   Global Environment Facility
ICB   International Competitive Bidding
ICR   Implementation Completion Report
MENR  Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine
NCB   National Competitive Bidding
NGO   Non Governmental Organization
NNP   National Nature Park
PA    Protected Area
PAD   Project Appraisal Document
PIU   Project Implementation Unit
QAG   Quality Assurance Group
RLP   Regional Landscape Park
RLTP  Ukraine Rural Land Titling and Cadastre Development Project
SDR          Special Drawing Rights
TTL   Task Team Leader

                         Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
                       Country Director     Paul Bermingham
                        Sector Manager      Benoit Blarel
       Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       John Fraser Stewart

                                          UKRAINE
              Azov Black Sea Corridor Biodiversity Conservation GEF Project
                             Implementation Completion Report


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    4
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   5
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         5
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                          11
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              21
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Annex 8. Project Completion Report Prepared by the Recipient

Project ID: P048790                                                  Project Name: Azov Black Sea Corridor Biodiversity
                                                                     Conservation GEF Project
Team Leader: John W. Fraser Stewart                                  TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 27, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Azov Black Sea Corridor Biodiversity                     L/C/TF Number: TF-28267
                            Conservation GEF Project
   Country/Department: UKRAINE                                                             Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (65%); Other social services (21%);
                            Agricultural extension and research (14%)
                  Theme: Biodiversity (P); Water resource management (P); Environmental policies and institutions (S);
                            Other rural development (S); Participation and civic engagement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/30/1997                                     Effective: 04/30/2002                01/06/2003
     Appraisal: 12/21/2001                                          MTR:
      Approval: 01/22/2002                                       Closing: 12/31/2006                12/31/2006



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          UKRAINE/MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION/ NGO
                                           InterEcoCentre
                      Other Partners:      authorities of the participating regions, national and regional non-governmental
                                           organizations, research and education centers, local communities

STAFF                           Current                                         At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                    Johannes Linn
Country Director:               Paul G. Bermingham                              Luca Barbone
Sector Manager:                 Benoit Blarel                                   Marjory-Anne Bromhead
Team Leader at ICR:             John Fraser Stewart                             Phillip Brylski
ICR Primary Author:             Serguei Milenin


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       N
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          HU


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
   The Development Objective of the Azov-Black Sea Corridor Biodiversity Conservation Project
   was to conserve costal biodiversity within the Azov-Black Sea costal corridor by strengthening
   the protected area network, mainstreaming biodiversity conservation into the surrounding
   agricultural areas, and by building support at the national and international levels for
   sustainable development of the region's unique biological landscape. The Global
   Environmental Objective was to support in-situ conservation of biodiversity and threatened
   wetland ecosystems through improved protected area planning and reduction of agricultural
   impacts on Ramsar sites.

   Assessment of objective      The Ukrainian coasts of the Black and Azov seas contain large and
   biologically diverse wetland complexes, some of which are the best or only remaining examples
   of such habitat types in Europe. About 650,000 hectares of the most important of these
   habitats are designated as Ramsar sites. The shallow fresh and salt water communities are
   critical spawning grounds for numerous species of fish. These wetlands and the adjoining
   endangered upland steppe serve as key components of an ecological corridor that links natural
   communities in the northern Black Sea region and provides critical wintering and feeding
   habitats for over one million of waterbirds migrating through the northwest shelf along various
   Eurasian ­ African flyways. In addition to this global environmental function, the marine,
   wetland and steppe communities together support more than 100 internationally endangered
   species. The prevailing unsustainable agricultural and land management practices pose
   significant threat to the environment of the corridor, and some of its important elements have
   already been lost. Ukraine undertakes a number of national initiatives to support conservation
   and prevent habitat degradation in the corridor: it maintains existing protected areas, builds
   legal grounds for the development of the ecological network, and carries out biodiversity
   monitoring. These efforts are in line with country's core obligations under international
   agreements addressing biodiversity conservation, protection of migratory species, and the
   environmental protection of the Black Sea (Convention on the Conservation of Biological
   Diversity, the Bucharest, Bonn and Bern Conventions, and etc.).

   In that context project objectives are clear and important for Ukraine as they reflect its essential
   priorities for environmentally sustainable development of the Azov-Black Sea costal area. The
   project would strengthen conservation of natural habitats by increasing protected area coverage
   and promoting throughout the region of biodiversity­friendly agricultural practices. In the
   long-term, this would significantly help sustain corridor's capacity to perform its critical
   environmental functions. Project objectives were realistic in view of (i) sufficient locally
   available technical knowledge; (ii) extensive national experience in protected area management;
   (iii) positive experience of the completed donor-financed conservation programs; and (iv)
   match of the project objectives to the operative national programs and country international
   commitments.

   The project was included in the CAS 2000 and addressed the following CAS objectives: (i)
   help the Government develop the legal and institutional framework for environmental
   regulation; (ii) improve the capacity of the Ministry of the Environment and related agencies;



                                                 - 2 -

   and (iii) efficiently prepare and implement larger environmental investment projects in the
   protection of biodiversity and improvement of land, water and solid waste management
   (Report No 20723-UA of August 16, 2000). Project objectives remain relevant under the
   current CAS 2003 (Report No 26448-UA of September 29, 2003; Progress Report No
   32250-UA of May 19, 2005), which specifies protection of natural environment as area for
   priority Bank intervention. Project objectives are also highly relevant under the Bank's sectoral
   operational strategies ­ the Natural Resource Management Strategy for the ECA Region
   (2000), the Environment Strategy for the World Bank (2001), and the Biodiversity Strategy for
   the ECA Region (2003).

   A significant strategic advantage of the project was to be its expected linkage with the IBRD
   financed Ukraine Rural Land Titling and Cadastre Development Project, which was prepared in
   parallel, and would link parcellization of land to wetland conservation through protecting
   stream borders, and the other vulnerable habitats in the Azov ­ Black Sea corridor.

   The project aimed at strengthening the environmental policies and improving practices of
   protected area management and of agricultural operations. From the outset it was recognized
   that such an effort would be difficult due to the complexity and instability of the institutional
   framework and the large number of authorities and stakeholder organizations involved. The
   geographic dispersion of project sites added to the complexity of the project. Given the
   Recipient's very limited previous experience in administering similar large-scale operations, the
   project was highly demanding in terms of building up the implementation capacity.

   Since the project was initiated, there were no changes in the Recipient's circumstances and
   development priorities, which would require revision of the project objectives.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project (original GEF cost - US$ 6.9 mln) consisted of five components to be implemented in
5 years: (1) Support protected areas management, (2) Support protected area and corridor
planning, (3) Build capacity and awareness for biodiversity conservation, (4) Demonstrate
biodiversity friendly agriculture practices, and (5) Project management and information
dissemination. Activities of components are summarized below.

   1. Support protected areas management (original GEF cost US$ 3.31 mln).
   The project would implement measures for improved management at priority marine and
   terrestrial protected areas in the corridor through: (i) creation or expantion of protected areas
   at the proposed Sivash (priority parts of its 200,000 hectares of open water, mudflats and
   saltmarshes) and Preazovsky (100,000 hectares of bays and costal wetlands) national parks;
   (ii) preparation and implementation of management plans for these protected areas and three
   existing protected areas (Chornomorsky biosphere reserve and Granite-Steppe Pobuzhia and
   Meotida regional landscape parks); and (iii) professional development for park staff in
   protected area administration and management planning, wetland and waterbird ecology and
   management, warden skills, and visitor management.



                                                  - 3 -

2. Support protected area and corridor planning (original GEF cost US$ 0.61 mln)
The Project would develop and implement a corridor conservation strategy for maintaining the
corridor's ecological function, based on the following activities: (i) identify and prioritize key
natural areas and ecological functions and their management requirements, through
remote-sensing assisted inventories of natural habitats; (ii) establish a monitoring system of
biodiversity in the corridor, focusing on indicators of ecosystem health, such as migratory
waterbird numbers as indicators of flyway function; (iii) finalize the costal protected area plan
to expand areas under regional management and identify the roles of protected areas in local
economies and financing needs for their long-term operation; and (iv) prepare land­use plans to
locate natural areas which contribute significantly to the corridor's ecological function and to
identify needs to mainstream biodiversity conservation into regional development plans. The
implementation of recommendations under these planning activities would be supported by the
small grants program of the Component 3 of the project.

The project would also map environmentally important areas (small rivers, forests, wetlands)
around key Ramsar sites in the corridor, educate farmers and local governments about
sustainable uses of these, and build consensus on ownership and use of non-agricultural and
marginally productive agricultural lands within the privatized farm collectives.


3. Build capacity and awareness for biodiversity conservation (original GEF cost US$ 1.27
mln).
The Project would build awareness of and support for wetlands conservation through an
environmental education program and implement a competitive small grants program to
support implementation of practical conservation measures by local communities, NGOs and
individuals. This component would also support regional and international cooperation in
wetlands conservation and waterfowl flyway management through regional exchange programs
and by two regional conferences on wetland and waterbird conservation.

4. Demonstrate biodiversity friendly agriculture practices (original GEF cost US$ 0.84 mln).
The project would assess environmental management needs for lands within the former
collective farms, including needs for soils conservation and management of on-farm wetlands.
The project would also evaluate the feasibility of developing conservation easements, with
favorable tax incentives, for environmentally sensitive, marginal agricultural lands. Ukrainian
agricultural, land management and environmental institutes would carry out these assessments
for each former collective, and incorporate the results into the land titling outputs. The project
would also implement sustainable agricultural practices at the farm and landscape levels,
working through a competitive small grants program for improved on-farm management
practices, which would have direct biodiversity conservation benefits for the priority protected
areas in the corridor. The project would fund: (i) works, goods and services to improve
management and protection of riparian areas and other natural habitats, and to improve
management of soils, livestock, and livestock waste in buffer zones around Ramsar cites, and
(ii) technical and other services by agricultural institutes, farmers/farmer associations, and
NGOs to provide training or to disseminate the techniques and lessons learned.



                                              - 4 -

5. Project management and information dissemination (original GEF cost US$ 0.87 mln).
The project would finance the operating costs of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) under
the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources. The PIU would undertake procurement
of goods, works and consultant services to implement the project. It would also develop and
maintain a communications support system to serve project participants and stakeholders, and
would monitor and evaluate project implementation.

As indicated in Section 3.1, the project would extensively cooperate with the Ukraine Rural
Land Titling and Cadastre Development Project (RLTP) funded by the IBRD loan. The total
associated financing from the RLTP was estimated at US$ 16 mln.

Assessment of the design:

Technical             The project technical design was overall reasonable and was properly
linked to its development and environmental objectives. Analysis of project alternatives at
appraisal was adequate. The selection of interventions, their scope and regional focus were
appropriate and sufficiently substantiated. The project operationalized recommendations of the
GEF-financed Regional Black Sea Environment Program and incorporated lessons learned
from other completed conservation activities in Ukraine - Danube Delta Biodiversity and
Transcarpathian Biodiversity Conservation Projects. Thus, lessons learned were reflected in
the project's (i) strong regional focus of activities, (ii) active involvement of non-governmental
stakeholders, (iii) clear linkages between conservation and socioeconomic objectives, and (iv)
participatory implementation to build and sustain local ownership. The project was highly
demanding on the Recipient's implementation capacity because of its (i) complex institutional
setting, involving multi-stakeholder participatory arrangements for local implementation, (ii)
innovative nature of mainstreaming of the conservation in agriculture and land management
practices, and (iii) significant geographic scope of activities.

Implementation arrangements            The Ministry of Environmental Protection (MEP) had the
overall responsibility for implementation. The implementation would be supported through
MEP line departments and territorial branches in the regions. A Project Steering Committee
under MEP would facilitate coordination and interaction with the environmental authorities of
the project regions. A Scientific Advisory Committee would review and endorse activities
related to the project's scientific program. Local Advisory Committees, established in each
project region, would represent the wide range of regional and local governmental and
non-governmental stakeholders. The project implementing agency or implementation unit
(PIU) ­ a local NGO InterEcoCentre ­ contracted by MEP under Component 5, would
administer project activities, including procurement, financial management, and technical
supervision. The central PIU office would be based in Kiev and the three PIU regional offices
would be established in the project targeted area.

The project had a number of critical weaknesses, which eventually contributed to failure of the
operation. These weaknesses mostly derived from inadequate appraisal of the Recipient's
implementation capacity:




                                               - 5 -

(i) Inappropriate NGO arrangement for project execution              Although the planned
extensive NGO involvement in various project activities was a positive element of design, the
outsourcing of central implementing agency (PIU) functions by MEP to a local NGO resulted
in substantially reduced leadership on the part of the government in addressing critical
implementation issues.

(ii) PIU not fully empowered to implement the project The NGO InterEcoCentre,
sole-sourced to perform the function of PIU was unable to perform effectively partly because
of its lack of authority to take operational decisions. The need and demand on the part of MEP
for close supervision and guidance over the NGO rendered the proposed PIU arrangement
inoperable.

(iii) Lack of clarity as regards project oversight responsibility within MEP            Although it
was an initial understanding that the MEP's State Agency for Protected Areas would take the
lead in implementing the project, a single point of responsibility within MEP for project
oversight and deliverables was not established, resulting in functional inefficiency and reduced
ownership.

(iv) No effective arrangement for inter-ministerial coordination             Another weakness,
although less critical, relates to the absence of adequate arrangement for national level
inter-ministerial coordination under the project. Such an arrangement could have been
integrated with the Project Steering Committee or operate separately (in a form of a committee
or a working group) to address critical implementation issues like budgetary co-financing or
cross-sectoral coordination of activities. In the absence of this arrangement it took a year to
complete actions for project effectiveness, MEP also failed to timely organize required
co-financing and tax regime for the project. Coordination of the educational segment of the
project with the Ministry of Education also became an issue. Later in implementation, a
coordination with the agricultural authorities would be required for the agriculture­related
activities to proceed and be effectively replicated.

There were also other issues related to the project at-entry readiness for implementation:

(v) Recipient co-financing not secured               The project entered implementation without
established arrangement for counterpart financing. Co-financing in the form of cash
contribution and /or tax and customs duty exemptions was essential for the implementation to
proceed. In the absence of the adequate co-financing arrangement established at preparation,
MEP for 2 years following project effectiveness was unable to mobilize required resources
from the national budget or ensure relevant tax exemptions. This led to distortions in
implementing the technical program, and undermined timely project start-up.

(vi) Not all project technical and operational requirements laid out in sufficient detail  Critical
project activities, particularly related to the development of the framework corridor
conservation strategy, biodiversity monitoring, and mainstreaming of conservation in
agricultural operations, were not adequately developed and discussed with stakeholders in
sufficient detail during preparation, and this contributed to significant start-up delays.




                                                - 6 -

3.4 Revised Components:
The original project components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
   Although the project technical design had a number of important positive and innovative
   features, the quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory because of weaknesses related to (i)
   appraisal of the Recipient's implementation capacity and arrangements for project oversight
   and execution, and (ii) availability of counterpart financing.

   Risks related to the implementation capacity of MEP and the proposed PIU arrangement were
   underestimated. The NGO InterEcoCentre failed to timely establish and maintain critical
   procurement and financial management capacity to administer project activities, and lack of
   single-point responsibility as well as inter-ministerial coordination compromised the Recipient's
   ability to address implementation issues. This led to the Recipient's non-compliance with legal
   covenants and failure of the project.

   Although the commitment of the government to provide required budgetary co-financing or tax
   exemptions for the project was agreed at appraisal and re-confirmed at negotiations, this issue
   was not entirely resolved before project presentation to Board. However, at the time of project
   processing there was already an operative national procedure and experience of granting tax
   exemptions for GEF-financed projects, and this critical issue could have been fully addressed.
   The unavailability of counterpart funding significantly delayed start-up activities, contributed to
   the loss of momentum and ownership, and to the eventual failure of the project.

   The project was not subject to a quality-at-entry review by QAG.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
   The outcome is rated unsatisfactory. The project failed to achieve its objectives to conserve
   biodiversity within the Azov-Black Sea costal corridor by (i) strengthening the protected area
   network, (ii) mainstreaming biodiversity conservation in agricultural operations outside
   protected areas, and (iii) building national and international support for the sustainable
   development of the region. Project start-up was significantly delayed because of a one year
   delay in effectiveness and the subsequent two year delay in provision of Recipient counterpart
   funds. Subsequent implementation was slow due to the prevailing combination of obstacles,
   which included insufficient leadership on the part of the government and lack of proactive
   management and capacity in the implementing agency (PIU). The project was cancelled by the
   Bank when it became apparent that the DO would not be achieved. Of the original allocation
   of US$ 6.9 mln (an equivalent of SDR 5.6 mln at appraisal), only US$ 1.10 mln was spent.

   However, the project did initiate some activities that would contribute to the achievement of
   development and environmental objectives. These activities had strong local ownership and
   their demonstration impact was valuable.

4.2 Outputs by components:



                                                  - 7 -

Outputs of all project components are rated unsatisfactory, as only a few activities of the
original program were initiated, and none of those was completed in full. The project sector
policy, physical, and institutional development objectives were not achieved. Key outputs by
components are summarized below.

Component 1. Support protected areas management (GEF cost US$ 3.31 mln planned, US$
0.69 mln actual).

Project financed creation of new and expansion of the existing protected areas. This included
conversion of the selected existing Regional Landscape Parks (RLPs) into National Nature
Parks (NNPs) to improve their protective regime and national budgetary support. Activities
related to (i) the establishment of the new Pryazovsky NNP with an area of 79,000 hectares;
(ii) expansion by 10,000 hectares of the Meotida RLP, which was recently established with
support from the UK Know-How Fund, and its conversion into NNP; and (iii) expansion of the
Chornomorsky Biosphere Reserve by 10,000 hectares to increase its total area to 60,000
hectares, were largely successful. Although by the time of the project closure the establishment
and expantion of these protected areas were not finalized, key decisions at the local level were
made and their adoption by the presidential decree is expected within one year. Establishment
of the new Sivashsky NNP (about 85,000 hectares) and expansion and conversion into NNP of
the existing Granite-Steppe Pobuzhia RLP (about 10,000 hectares), is pending agreement with
the respective regional authorities and is unlikely to be finalised within a reasonable time.
Development of new regulations to improve legal base for establishing protected areas was also
initiated.

Activities were undertaken to improve management planning in protected areas. Management
plans were developed for the selected wetland sites of high conservation value, including
Molochny Liman (part of the proposed Preazovsky NNP) and Buzskie Broyaki (part of
Granite-Steppe Pobuzhia RLP). Analysis of the water regime was completed for the proposed
Nizhne-Dnestrovsky NNP. Hunting management plan was developed for an area within the
proposed Sivashskiy NNP. Analysis with recommendations for sustainable use was made for
waterfowl resources of the Sivash lake.

The project initiated delivery of critical equipment for protected areas and environmental
authorities to strengthen their operational capacity. Thus, field, biodiversity monitoring, and
office equipment (vehicles, boats, boat engines, GPS navigators, binoculars, tents, laboratory
devices, computers, and etc.) for the total amount of US$ 0.25 mln was provided to 11
protected areas, including Teligulsky, Kinburzhskaya Kosa, Granit Steppe Pobuzhia and
Meotida RLPs; Azovo-Sivashsky NNP; and Chornomorsky, Askaniya-Nova and Dunaisky
Biosphere Reserves. Vehicles and office equipment were procured for Departments of
Environment and Natural Resources of the participating regions - Zaporizhye, Mykolaiv,
Odessa, Kherson, and Donetsk oblasts and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea.

In protected areas the project also (i) completed minor construction works to improve field
infrastructure (offices, information boards), (ii) helped publish information materials, and (iii)
financed selected incremental operating costs (fuel, vehicle spare parts, etc.).



                                               - 8 -

   Activities for the professional development in protected areas management and wetlands
   conservation included (i) training workshop in Meotida RLP for protected area managers and
   environmental officials, (ii) training courses in Melitopol and Simpheropol on wetlands
   conservation for managers of hunting associations and hunters, and (iii) support to the
   newspaper of the Dunaisky Biosphere Reserve.

   Component 2. Support protected area and corridor planning (GEF cost US$ 0.61 mln planned,
   US$ 0.09 mln actual). In summer 2004 the project completed a corridor-wide wetland bird
   inventory. That inventory covered 100 bird species associated with 81 key wetland sites and
   was the first coordinated monitoring program addressing the entire Azov-Black Sea costal
   area.

   The other planned activities related to (i) finalizing corridor conservation strategy, (ii)
   establishing landscape level monitoring, and (iii) developing land use plans to improve land use
   practices within the corridor, were not implemented.

   Component 3. Build capacity and awareness for biodiversity conservation (GEF cost US$ 1.27
   mln planned, US$0.04 mln actual). A national ­ level environmental education program was
   developed and agreed between MEP and the Ministry of Education. The project also published
   and disseminated the field guide "Birds of Ukraine".

   Planned activities related to (i) building capacity of environmental NGOs, (ii) developing small
   grants program to support conservation, and (iii) promoting regional and international
   cooperation, were not implemented.

   Component 4. Demonstrate biodiversity friendly agriculture practices (GEF cost US$ 0.84 mln
   planned, US$ 0.001 actual). Although some design work was made for the farmers training,
   no activities on the ground were implemented to mainstream biodiversity conservation in
   agricultural operations.

   Component 5. Project management and information dissemination (GEF cost US$ 0.87 mln
   planned, US$ 0.28 mln actual). The component financed operating costs of the NGO
   InterEcoCentre, which was the implementing agency (PIU) for the project. InterEcoCentre
   was unable to operate effectively due to the continuous lack of qualified procurement and
   financial management staff. A communications support program, also planned under that
   component, was not implemented.

   A set of DO- and results-oriented performance indicators was developed for the project at
   appraisal. However, because of the significant implementation delays and operational
   problems, the actual progress had to be monitored against a number of processing and
   intermediary results targets related to strengthening implementation capacity and managing the
   few initiated activities. The planned critical and innovative linkages to the associated
   Bank-financed Rural Land Titling and Cadastre Development Project did not materialize.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:



                                                  - 9 -

   N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
   N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
   Project activities to improve performance of the environmental authorities, strengthen
   environmental regulation and introduce important policy change towards mainstreaming of
   biodiversity conservation in agricultural operations were not implemented. The initiated
   activities to strengthen protected area system in the corridor were not completed in full.
   Therefore, the institutional development impact of the project is negligible.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

   Positive factor:

   Availability of local non-governmental co-financing              In view of the Recipient's inability to
   provide national co-financing in a timely manner, some local non-government stakeholders
   established alternative arrangements for provision of counterpart funding. Co-financing from
   local sources allowed some corridor biodiversity monitoring and initiation of some start up
   project activities to proceed in the Meotida RLP at a time when national budgetary
   co-financing was not available.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
   Negative factors:

   Delay in providing budgetary co-financing                       National co-financing agreed at
   appraisal was not made available until 2005 - 2 years after project effectiveness. This caused
   significant delays in project start-up and resulted in reduced commitment to the project by
   some stakeholders.

   Governance             Project oversight by MENR and the other concerned governmental
   agencies was not sufficiently effective to ensure timely consideration of critical implementation
   matters. Delays in providing national counterpart funds and inaction on the essential issue of
   the PIU implementation capacity, which was repeatedly flagged to government, evidence
   insufficient leadership on the part of the Recipient, lack of the interagency coordination, and of
   the overall governmental ownership for the project. Repeated changes in government and
   MEP officials (5 MEP Project Directors in 2 years) may also have contributed to reduced
   commitment to address key issues.

   Ineffective administrative procedures           Procedural requirements established for the
   operation of the PIU InterEcoCentre were overly complex. There was no single point of
   responsibility within MEP to coordinate various internal ministerial clearances, ensure
   consistency and continuity of project processing requirements, and effectively interact with the
   PIU. In the absence of pro-activity on the PIU side, this adversely affected PIU performance



                                                     - 10 -

   and its ability to timely take and implement operational decisions.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

   Negative factor:

   Delays in hiring key staff and lack of staff continuity    The PIU InterEcoCentre delayed
   contracting of procurement and financial management staff with the required qualifications.
   Some PIU staff contracts were not effectively managed, and this led to frequent changes and
   lack of continuous presence of essential specialist staff. This resulted in significant project
   implementation delays and inadequate financial management reporting.

5.4 Costs and financing:

   In the PAD the total project costs were estimated at the equivalent of US$ 32.5 mln, of which
   US$ 6.9 mln were to be financed by the GEF grant (SDR 5.4 mln at appraisal). Counterpart
   financing from all Recipient sources was estimated at US$ 2.4 mln. The co-financing from the
   Land Titling and Cadastre Development Project (associated IBRD loan) was planned at US$
   16.0 mln. Additional funding in the amount of US$ 7.2 mln was expected from bilateral
   donors.

   As indicated above, because of significant operational problems including the lack of
   counterpart financing, most of the appraised project activities were not implemented. Only
   US$ 1.1 mln or 16 % of the original GEF allocation was spent. Recipient co-financing
   amounted to US$ 0.1 mln. The UK Know-How Fund provided associated financing in the
   equivalent of US$ 0.4 mln. The original GEF project costs and the actual expenditures are
   summarized in Annex 2.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

   Maintenance of the achievements generated by the project in relation to its objective is
   considered overall unlikely, as there appears to be no Recipient's capacity to properly
   institutionalize project deliverables. In particular, substantial inputs will still be required to
   finalize establishment of the Pryazovsky NNP and the other planned new protected areas, and
   there is no clear evidence that the government will allocate sufficient resources to complete
   these activities.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
   Project activities were fully integrated into the regular operation of beneficiaries, including the
   existing protected areas and MEP territorial departments in the regions. Therefore, most of
   activities did not require special transition arrangements. Additionally, investments on the
   ground supported core long-term functions of project beneficiaries and largely had a strong
   local ownership. Thus, the operation of Meotida RLP (established under the associated
   program of the UK Know-How Fund and strengthened under the project) is likely to
   successfully continue, as this park now already has an established management regime and



                                                    - 11 -

   infrastructure, and there is also a commitment and substantial budgetary allocations on the part
   of the regional authorities to support it.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:


   Unsatisfactory. Bank performance in lending is rated unsatisfactory because of weaknesses
   related to the project's quality at entry (see Sections 3.3 and 3.5). In particular, the Bank failed
   to adequately appraise project implementation arrangements and properly assess and mitigate
   capacity-related risks. Recipient's counterpart financing was not secured before project
   presentation to Board. Also, the dialogue at preparation appears to have been weak in areas
   of: (i) developing integrated corridor conservation strategy, and (ii) mainstreaming
   conservation in agricultural operations, whereby technical guidance for these activities were not
   laid out in sufficient detail in the project documentation.

   On the positive side, the objectives of the project were consistent with government
   development priorities and with the CAS. Project's technical design was overall sound. The
   project complied with Bank's applicable safeguard policies and the assigned environmental
   category B was appropriate.

7.2 Supervision:


   Satisfactory. The lack of workable co-financing arrangement and poor implementation
   capacity from the outset were recognized and brought to Recipient's attention. Thus, the first
   mission after project effectiveness (in May 2003) flagged delays in hiring qualified procurement
   and financial management staff to the PIU. The May 2003 mission agreed with MEP and PIU
   on a detailed action plan to address the delays, however, implementation of the plan failed. In
   October 2003 the Bank notified the Recipient of poor performance of the PIU and the need to
   agree on urgent measures to strengthen PIU capacity. Following the Recipient's failure to
   implement these measures and put implementation on track, in April 2004 the Bank proposed
   project implementation arrangements be improved. At that point MEP undertook to consider
   several options for improvement, including the option of transferring implementation functions
   directly to the ministry. In April 2004 MEP also agreed on a two year implementation plan for
   the project and on a priority action plan to be closely monitored as an indicator of project
   performance. In view of the very limited progress in implementing the action plan, the
   repeated lack of qualified procurement and financial management staff in the PIU, and its
   inadequate reporting, in October 2004 the Bank informed the Recipient of the possibility of
   project suspension. As a result of insufficient remedial action and continued Recipient
   non-compliance with legal covenants, the Bank suspended the project on June 23, 2005, and
   then, cancelled the project as of August 24, 2005.

   In September 2004 the QAG reviewed the quality of supervision for FY03-04. Although the
   review noted a proactive and forceful procurement supervision and good Bank inputs on
   financial management, it assigned "unsatisfactory" rating as the task team appeared to have
   delayed project suspension. The QAG also recommended considering decentralizing project


                                                  - 12 -

   execution to the authorities of the participating regions. The Bank had, indeed, somewhat
   delayed moves to suspension, primarily because even in the later stages of implementation
   assurances were being provided from the highest level of MEP that project implementation
   arrangements would be improved . The task team considered various restructuring options,
   including those recommended by QAG. Decentralization of implementation oversight to
   regional authorities proved to be impossible as MEP could not take the necessary measures to
   allocate resources to its regional units. Lack of success in pursuing other alternatives,
   including adjusting and improving implementation responsibilities within MEP at the central
   level, led the Bank to first suspend and then cancel the project.

   While dialog with Government during the protracted period between Board and effectiveness
   could have been stronger, supervision by the Bank following effectiveness was diligent and
   proactive. During supervision the Bank: (i) identified implementation problems early on, (ii)
   recommended actions to address problems, and (iii) provided extensive support and staff time
   to guide and assist the Recipient to take corrective actions. Although some of the project
   ratings in the PSRs prior to June 2004 may have lacked realism, the performance reporting
   through BTOs and Aide-Memoires was adequately thorough. Supervision on the fiduciary
   aspects of project management and the procurement supervision were particularly strong. The
   Country Unit provided valuable support and guidance to the task team. The quality and
   quantity of Bank staff and consultants, their time in the field, the timing of supervision
   missions, and the support of the Bank sector and country management to staff at critical points
   were adequate.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:


   Unsatisfactory. The operation appears to have failed as a result of inadequate implementation
   design, and inability on the part of the Recipient to rectify deficiencies.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:


   Unsatisfactory. Although the project technical design was sound, and there was substantial
   stakeholder commitment in the regions, the Recipient failed to secure counterpart funds
   required for implementation. Appraisal was delayed for over a year when the Ukrainian
   parliament froze ratification of all loans or grants from the Bank during 2000-2001 period,
   thereby impacting on such momentum as had been established during the protracted period of
   preparation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:


   Highly unsatisfactory. As indicated in Section 5.2, implementation was adversely affected by
   a combination of factors, including ineffective arrangements for implementation and project
   oversight and delay in provision of budgetary co-financing In particular, significant project
   start-up and implementation delays were caused by: (i) 11 months delay in effectiveness, (ii)
   unavailability of counterpart funds for the subsequent 24 months, (iii) 18 months delay in
   opening transit accounts required to finance contracts in local currency, and (iv) inaction on the



                                                 - 13 -

   critical issue of PIU capacity. Lack of implementation progress undermined credibility of the
   program in the regions, demotivated regional participants and stakeholders, and resulted in the
   overall loss of momentum and substantially reduced commitment to the project. Although the
   Bank provided extensive guidance and support to rectify deficiencies in implementation and the
   poor project performance was repeatedly noted at CPPRs by the representatives of the
   government, insufficient corrective action was taken on the part of the Government to put
   implementation on track. Lack of proactivity in addressing implementation challenges may
   have been exacerbated a broader systemic problem of bureaucratic inertia associated with
   frequent changes of leadership in MEP.

7.6 Implementing Agency:


   Highly unsatisfactory. A local Kiev-based NGO InterEcoCentre was contracted under
   agency agreement by MEP to undertake the PIU function. However, the action plan to build
   implementation capacity of InterEcoCentre to a satisfactory level, which was agreed at
   appraisal and outlined in project documentation, was not implemented in full. As indicated in
   Section 5.3, the PIU was unable to timely engage or ensure continuity of qualified procurement
   and financial management staff required for implementation. Management of contracts under
   the project was largely ineffective, and the PIU repeatedly failed to deliver against the agreed
   implementation plans. Project financial management reporting was unsatisfactory and there
   were significant delays with the PIU audit and reporting on project accounts. There were
   repeated instances of inadequate adherence to procurement and financial management
   procedures and - at the time of preparation of this ICR - some irregularities in procurement are
   currently under review. Ineffective administrative procedures within PIU and with respect to
   its interaction with MEP substantially contributed to the failure of the project.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:


   Highly unsatisfactory. The Recipient failed to establish and maintain implementation
   capacity agreed at appraisal, and provide resources required to implement the project in a
   timely manner. Lack of proactivity in addressing implementation problems supported the
   perception that the Recipient was poorly motivated toward achieving the development and
   environmental objectives of the project.

   At the time of preparing this ICR, the Recipient had not yet responded to the Bank's request
   for clarification on the status of audit reports due June 30th 2006.

8. Lessons Learned


   The key lessons learned from the Ukraine Azov-Black Sea Corridor Biodiversity Conservation
   Project are summarized below.

   1. Project implementation arrangements

   (a) Governmental oversight: The ability of the government to implement the project was
   constrained by prevailing lack of clarity with respect to project oversight responsibilities within


                                                  - 14 -

MEP, lack of continuity in MEP senior project management staff, and ineffective coordination
on critical implementation issues between MEP and other governmental agencies. Although it
was agreed at appraisal and outlined in the project documentation that the protected area
service (department) of MEP would take the lead in implementing the project, the service
could not effectively perform this function as the required internal arrangements were not
established. Single-point responsibility for project implementation oversight and deliverables
should be formally confirmed by appraisal. Furthermore, arrangements for inter-ministerial
coordination should be laid out in the project and legal documents. Such arrangements
should be formally established prior to effectiveness so as to insure full commitment and
support of key parties.

(b) Implementation capacity: The PIU InterEcoCentre was not adequately empowered to take
operational decisions and functioned under continuous lack of procurement and financial
management capacity. Implementation arrangements and schedules, emphasizing
transparency, functional clarity, and operational effectiveness, should be carefully reviewed
and agreed prior to project effectivenes.

2. Project processing and readiness for implementation

(a) Timely availability of counterpart co-financing: Despite commitment to provide
co-financing having been made at appraisal, adequate funding was not secured by the
Recipient. Requirements for counterpart funding should be agreed and confirmed prior to
effectiveness.

(b) Planning for implementation: The start-up of project activities related to the strategic
planning of conservation interventions in the corridor and the mainstreaming of conservation
objectives in regular agricultural operations was delayed partly because the details of these
activities were not sufficiently developed during preparation. Advance technical, institutional,
and procurement planning for project activities of innovative nature is critical as it provides
framework for their timely initiation in the field and reduces the project start-up pressure on
the implementing agency.

3. Sector operational context

(a) Stakeholder support at the regional level: Project implementation demonstrated strong
commitment on the part of regional and local governments, as well as non-governmental
stakeholders, to support implementation of policies and practices for improved environmental
management and conservation of biodiversity. Improved environmental sustainability is
viewed by stakeholders as an important element of regional development, as evidenced by the
strong leadership and critical financial contribution provided to the project in Donetsk and
Zaporizhzhya oblasts. This experience suggests that more effective project implementation and
ownership may be achieved by delegating project management functions to regional authorities.
Regional level execution may also provide greater opportunity to maximize synergies and
complementarities with the other locally-driven programs.




                                              - 15 -

   (b) Local technical capacity: High quality local technical expertise is available in Ukraine to
   support implementation of conservation programs nation-wide and in the regions. However,
   the institutional framework for consulting and advisory services is underdeveloped, and local
   experience in bidding for, performing, and administering competitively awarded consulting
   assignments in the sector is insufficient. Therefore, there is a need to further adapt
   procurement processes to the prevailing market conditions, leading to more operationally
   effective implementation solutions.

   4. Cross-cutting portfolio issues

   (a) Project ownership and authorizing environment:          Although there was strong
   commitment to the project in the regions, government was unable to adjust implementation
   arrangements and enable the project to succeed. There is a need to further focus on improving
   implementation arrangements to: (i) represent the most effective framework to achieve results
   on the ground, (ii) conform to national governance structures in a way that maximizes project
   ownership by the implementing authorities, and (iii) retain sufficient flexibility to respond to
   the evolving implementation circumstances and priorities. Greater attention should also be
   paid to the prevailing in-country operational risks.

   (b) Linking GEF resources to other investment operations: Better leverage and
   mainstreaming of environmental concerns could be achieved by establishing more formal and
   stronger linkages between GEF projects and the broader development agenda, sectoral
   policies and specific investment programs.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The draft ICR was sent to the Recipient for comments on May 29, 2006. No comments have been
received.

The Bank also has not received from the Recipient its own Implementation Completion Report.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information


   N/A




                                                  - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


            Indicator                  Baseline Value             End-of-Project         End-of-Project Actual
                                         (at appraisal)            Target Value
 1. Improved protection and      Only 80,000 hectares of    Management and             Initiated activities not
 sustainable use of biodiversity Ramsar sites in the        monitoring plans prepared completed. Establishment of
 in 250,000 hectares of high     corridor were adequately   and under implementation new protected areas not
 priority gazetted coastal       protected.                 for 3 or more protected    finalized. No PA
 wetlands and associated                                    areas by 3rd year.         management plans
 upland sites.                                                                         prepared.
 2. Increased support for        350,000 people live in the Environmental education Public awareness and
 biodiversity conservation,      project area and make use program for school          environmental education
 marked by increased             of the region's natural    teachers implemented at 1 activities not started. Small
 participation of local          resources for income and   or more teachers colleges Grants Program not
 communities in protected area subsistence. Project         by end of 2nd year. Small initiated.
 management and conservation activities are intended to     Grants Program disbursing
 activities.                     heighten awareness of the funds by the end of the 2nd
                                 need for conservation.     year of implementation.
 3. Land use plans that          Plans that integrate       2 land use plans completed No activities initiated.
 integrate new and existing      protected areas and other  by end 2nd year, and four
 protected areas and other       environmental issues       by end 3rd year
 environmental issues prepared non-existent at the time of
 in six participating oblasts.   appraisal
 4. Farm management plans to No farm-level management Small grants program             No activities initiated.
 reduce nutrient runoff under    plans to reduce nutrient   disbursing funds to support
 implementation on 10,000        runoff in existence at the control of nutrient runoff
 hectares of coastal farmland. time of appraisal.           activities by end of 2nd
 Improved nutrient reduction                                year.
 and erosion control measures
 under implementation in all
 participating oblasts.
 5. 5,000 hectares of forest     Forest belts under threat  Small grants program       No activities initiated.
 belts under sustainable use,    due to poor management.    disbursing funds to support
 with defined roles of farms in                             sustainable management of
 their management.                                          5,000 ha by end of 2nd
                                                            year.




                                                      - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                             Appraisal     Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                             Estimate       Estimate          Appraisal
                       Component                             US$ million   US$ million
1. Support protected areas management                            7.91            1.17              14.8
2. Support protected area and corridor planning                  5.57            0.09               1.6
3. Build capacity and awareness for biodiversity                 7.14            0.04               0.6
conservation
4. Demonstrate biodiversity friendly agriculture practices       9.78            0.00                 0
5. Project management and information dissemination              2.12            0.31              14.6

Total Baseline Cost                                            32.52             1.61
                         Total Project Costs                   32.52             1.61
                   Total Financing Required                    32.52             1.61


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                                                  Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category            ICB              NCB                *        N.B.F.       Total Cost
                                                                   Other
1. Works                            0.00               0.32          0.25         0.00           0.57
                                   (0.00)             (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                            0.90               0.29          0.42         0.00           1.61
                                   (0.00)             (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
3. Services                         0.00               0.00          2.69         0.00           2.69
                                   (0.00)             (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
4. Small grants                     0.00               0.00          1.00         0.00           1.00
                                   (0.00)             (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Incremental operating            0.00               0.00          1.03         0.00           1.03
costs                              (0.00)             (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Recurrent costs and              0.00               0.00          0.00         25.62          25.62
miscellaneous                      (0.00)             (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
    Total                           0.90               0.61          5.39         25.62          32.52
                                   (0.00)             (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
* - Includes civil works and goods procured through commercial practices, national shopping,
consulting services, services of the contracted staff of the project management office, training,
technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to managing the project.

N.B.F (Not GEF Financed) - co-financing from (i) Recipient's domestic sources, (ii) associated
IBRD loan for the Land Titling and Cadastre Development Project, and (iii) bilateral and other
donors.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                                                  Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category            ICB              NCB                *      N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                   Other



                                                   - 18 -

   1. Works                                0.00               0.00               0.03            0.00           0.03
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)
   2. Goods                                0.00               0.00               0.40            0.00           0.40
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00               0.55            0.00           0.55
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)
   4. Small grants                         0.00               0.00               0.00            0.00           0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)
   5. Incremental operating                0.00               0.00               0.12            0.00           0.12
   costs                                  (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)
   6. Recurrent costs and                  0.00               0.00               0.00            0.51           0.51
   miscellaneous                          (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)
       Total                               0.00               0.00               1.10            0.51           1.61
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)        (0.00)
   * - Includes civil works and goods procured through commercial practices, national shopping,
   consulting services, services of the contracted staff of the project management office, training,
   technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to managing the project.

   N.B.F.(Not GEF Financed) - co-financing from (i) Recipient's domestic sources, (ii) associated
   IBRD loan for the Land Titling and Cadastre Development Project, and (iii) bilateral and other
   donors.
     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the . All costs include contingencies.

     2/




Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                    Appraisal Estimate                 Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank       Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.       CoF.     Bank   Govt.   CoF.
1. Support protected areas      3.31        1.65         2.95        0.69         0.08        0.40     20.8    4.8     13.6
management
2. Support protected area       0.61        4.00         0.96        0.09                              14.8    0.0     0.0
and corridor planning
3. Build capacity and           1.27        4.00         1.87        0.04                              3.1     0.0     0.0
awareness for biodiversity
conservation
4. Demonstrate biodiversity     0.84        7.50         1.44        0.00                              0.0     0.0     0.0
friendly agriculture
practices
5. Project management and       0.87        1.25                     0.28         0.03                 32.2    2.4
information dissemination


Total                           6.90       18.40         7.22        1.10         0.11        0.40     15.9    0.6     5.5

       [Bank] - includes financing from the GEF Grant.
       [Govt] - includes co-financing from the Recipient's domestic sources (national budget, regional
       budgets and project beneficiaries) and from the associated IBRD loan for the Land Titling and
       Cadastre Development Project.



                                                          - 19 -

[CoF] - includes co-financing from bilateral and other donors (DANIDA, TACIS, Gov. of the
Netherlands, Gov. of USA, UK Know-How Fund, and WWF).




                                            - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/1996                   1    Senior Biodiversity Specialist
                                             (TM)
                                        1    Operations Officer*
                                        1    Environmental Specialist (C)
              05/1997                   1    Operations Officer*
                                        1    Environmental Specialist (C)
              07/1997                   1    Senior Biodiversity Specialist
                                             (TM
                                        1    Operations Officer*
              12/1997                   1    Senior Biodiversity Specialist
                                             (TM)
                                        1    Operations Officer*
              07/1998                   1    Senior Biodiversity Specialist
              (appraisal 1)                  (TM)
                                        1    Operations Officer*

 Appraisal/Negotiation
                                        2    Senior Biodiversity
              01/2001                        Specialist (TTL), Operations
              (appraisal 1)                  Officer*

                                        2    Financial Management
                                             Specialist, Procurement
                                             Specialist,
              07/2001                   4    Senior Biodiversity Specialist
              (negotiations)                 (TTL), Senior Counsel, Senior
                                             Financial Management
                                             Specialist, Operations Officer*
                                        3    Procurement Specialist,
                                             Disbursement Officer, Financial
                                             Management Specialist* (C)

              12/2001
              (appraisal 2)

                                        1    Senior Biodiversity Specialist
                                             (TTL
                                        1    Operations Officer*


 Supervision
              03/2002                   2    Senior Biodiversity                  S               S
                                             Specialist (TTL)
                                             Operations Officer*
              10/2002                   2    Operations Officer (TTL)*            S               S



                                              - 22 -

                    Senior Biodiversity Specialist
05/2003           3 Operations Officer (TTL)*          S    S
                    Senior Biodiversity Specialist
                    Environmental Specialist (C)
06/2003           1 Operations Officer (TTL)*          S    S
10/2003           2 Operations Officer (TTL)*         U     S
                    Environmental Specialist (C)
04/2004           6 Operations Officer (TTL)*         U     S
(status review      Senior Biodiversity and Natural
mission)            Resource Specialist
                    Procurement Specialist*
                    Financial Management
                    Specialist*
                    Procurement and Disbursement
                    Assistant
                    Environmental and Rural Sector
                    Assistant
07/2004           7 Operations Officer (TTL)*         U     U
                    Senior Biodiversity and Natural
                    Resource Specialist
                    Procurement Specialist*
                    Financial Management
                    Specialist*
                    Environmental Specialist (C)
                    Procurement and Disbursement
                    Assistant
                    Environmental Sector Assistant
                  9 Senior Biodiversity and Natural   U     U
02/2005             Resource Specialist (TTL)
                    Senior Social Development
                    Specialist
                    Operations Officer*
                    Procurement Specialist*
                    Financial Management
                    Specialist*
                    Environmental Specialist (C)
                    Operations Analyst
                    Procurement and Disbursement
                    Assistant
                    Environmental Sector Assistant
06/2005           2 Senior Biodiversity and Natural   U     U
                    Resource Specialist (TTL)*
                    Operations Officer*
12/2005           3 Senior Biodiversity and Natural   U     U
                    Resource Specialist (TTL)*
                    Senior Operations Officer*
                    Senior Environmental Specialist
                    (C)
04/2006           3 Senior Biodiversity and Natural   U     U
                    Resource Specialist (TTL)*
                    Senior Operations Officer*
                    Senior Environmental Specialist
                    (C)



                    - 23 -

 ICR


   Staff marked (*) was based in Kiev.
   Staff marked (C) are consultants.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                          1,000.70
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                  43.00
  Supervision                                                           232.10
  ICR                                                                    30.00
  Total                                                               1,305.80




                                               - 24 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

 1.  Project Document (PAD) - Report No. 22526-UA of December 2001.

 2.    GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement TF 028267-UA of January 31, 2002.

 3.  Supervision reporting: BTOs, Aide-Memoires, Letters to the Recipient, PSRs/ISRs.

 4.  QAG Quality of Supervision Assessment dated September 10, 2004 and Joint comments
 on the Assessment by the ECSSD and ECCU2 management.




                                        - 27 -

- 28 -

