Document of                     FILE COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2949-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
TENTH POWER PROJECT
February 3, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00          Rp 625
Rp 100        =  US$0.16
Rp 1 million  =  US$1,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton            n  1,000 kilograms (kg)
1 liter (1)            =  0.0063 barrels
1 kilometer (km)       =  0.6215 miles (mi)
I kilovolt (kV)        -  1,000 volts (V)
1 megavolt-ampere      =  1,000 kilovolt-amperes (kVA)
1 kilovolt-ampere      -  1,000 volt-ampere (VA)
1 megawatt (MW)        =  1,000 kilowatts (kW)
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)  -  1 million kilowatt hours (kWh)
ABBREVIATIONS
GOI      - Government of Indonesia
IGGI     - Intergovernmental Group on Indonesia
MME      - Ministry of Mines and Energy
Newjec   - New Japan Engineering Consultants, Japan
ODA      - Official Development Assistance
OECF     - Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
PLN      - Perusahaan Uuum Listrik Negara, the
national electricity authority
SBC      - Special Board of Consultants
PLN-S FINANCIAL YEAR (FY)
April 1 - March 31
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
TENTH POWER PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiary:       Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara (PLN), the national
electricity authority
Amount:            $250 million equivalent
Terms:             20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at
9.60% p.a.
Onlending Terms:  The proceeds of the loan will be onlent from the Govern-
ment to PLN on the same terms as the Bank loan; the
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project            The project would utilize the hydroelectric potential
Description:    of the Citarum River to meet Java's growing demand for
electricity; it is expected to provide the Java Grid
with 700 MW of peaking capacity. The project will
also assist PLN to expand its capabilities in the fields
of construction, power market surveys, power system
planning, and contract management. The project comprises:
(a) construction of a storage dam, 97.5 m high, at
Saguling on the Citarum River; a 6.5 km long water
conductor system comprising tunnels, surgetanks, and
penstocks; and a 700 MW power station (with 4
generating sets each rated at 175 MW) at Cipanas,
with an associated 500 kV step-up substation;
(b) provision of the necessary equipment for a PLN
construction task force;
(c) engineering of the Cirata hydroelectric project
including detailed investigations and designs; and
(d) consultancy services to assist PLN with:
(i) power market surveys;
(ii) power system analysis; and
(iii) civil works contract management.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
The risks associated with the project include the
uncertainties inherent in hydroelectric projects,
such as possible geological problems, hydrological
complexities, and similar matters. Appropriate
measures have been taken to keep risks to a minimum,
including the institution in 1978 of the Special Board
of Consultants (SBC) which continuously reviews the
investigations and design of the project to ensure
that all aspects involving safety of structures are
considered. The SBC will continue its monitoring
throughout the construction stage.
Estimated Costs                            Local       Foreign        Total
--------- $ million ----------
Base Costs
Saguling hydro-electric
project (700 MW)/a                 186.7        266.0          452.7
Construction equipment                 -             0.5           0.5
Engineering of Cirata
hydroelectric project                1.5           7.5           9.0
Selected consulting services           0.5           1.5           2.0
Subtotal                           188.7        275.5          464.2
Contingencies
Physical                              28.9          26.8          55.7
Price                                122.5          84.3         206.8
Total Costs                        340.1        386.6          726.7
Financing Plan:
Source                               Local       Foreign        Total
--------- $ million ----------
IBRD                                   -         250.0         250.0
OECF                                    -         136.6        136.6
PLN/Government                      340.1            -         340.1
Total                                                  726.7
/a Cost totals include taxes totalling approximately 5% on the local
component of the civil works contract.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY           1981   1982       1983    1984    1985       1986
Annual            30.0   38.5       66.0    57.5    32.0       26.0
Cumulative        30.0   68.5    134.5   192.0   224.0    250.0
Rate of Return:  16%
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 3185-IND, dated January 16, 1981.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A TENTH POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $250 million to help
finance a Tenth Power Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including five years of grace, with interest at 9.60% per annum. The pro-
ceeds of the loan would be onlent to Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara (PLN),
the national electricity authority, on the same terms as those of the pro-
posed loan. The foreign exchange risk will be borne by the Government.
Parallel with the Bank loan, the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of
Japan (OECF) is providing $136.6 million to help finance part of the cost
of the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social
Progress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979. An
updating country economic memorandum, "Indonesia: Long-Run Development and
Short-Run Adjustment" (No. 2788-IND, dated February 20, 1980) was distributed
to the Executive Directors early last year.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is an archipelago of more than 13,000
islands covering a land area in excess of two million sq km. With an
estimated population of over 136 million, it is the world's fifth most
populous nation. The population density exceeds 650 persons per sq km in
Java, where 65% of the population live, but averages less than 30 persons
per sq km in the rest of the country. Over 82% of the population live in
rural areas and although agriculture only accounts for slightly over 30% of
GDP, about 62% of total employment is still found in the agricultural
sector. GNP per capita is estimated at about $380.
4.        Over the last 13 years, Indonesia's economic, social and institu-
tional development has surpassed that of most other heavily populated, poor
countries. Although the new government in 1966 inherited a severely
dislocated and bankrupt economy, it rapidly brought hyperinflation under
control, established full convertibility of the currency and regained the
confidence of western creditors. During the First Development Plan period,
Repelita I (1969/70 to 1973/74), a major rehabilitation of the neglected
infrastructure was initiated, the investment rate was doubled to 18% of GDP
and an average real GDP growth rate of over 9% p.a. was achieved. During
Repelita II (1974/75 to 1978/79), economic activity was fueled by a dramatic
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Ulniversity
Development Project (No. P-2873-IND), circulated under cover of
R80-259, dated August 27, 1980, and approved by the Executive Directors
on September 16, 1980.



increase in foreign exchange resources resulting from the world commodity
boom, the quadrupling of oil prices and expanded public and private foreign
capital inflows. Net oil exports increased from $640 million in 1q73 to
$4 billion /1 in 1978, which enabled the Government of Indonesia (GOI)
expenditure to increase by 20% annually and encouraged a 7% average annual GDP
growth rate. Not all sectors have shared in this growth. In particular, the
performance of nonextractive exports, with some exceptions, such as coffee and
palm oil, has been disappointing; rubber exports, for example, have stagnated
since 1971, and manufactured exports are only now giving any indication of
sustained growth. In addition, there has been little evidence, despite
increased foreign exchange resources, that the post-oil future of the economy
has been assured through a broad-based expansion of the industrial sector.
Social Developments
5.        While there is general agreement that overall growth in the economy
- an annual rate of almost 8% over ten years /2 - has been impressive, views
diverge on the degree to which the poor have shared in this increased income.
The National Household Surveys for 1970 and 1976 indicate that while overall
income disparities almost certainly widened between those two dates, there was
nevertheless a considerable improvement in the consumption of all income
groups, with real consumption expenditure of the bottom 40% of the population
probably increasing at between 3.5% and 5.5% annually. Growth in per capita
income was generally higher in Java than in the Other Islands and higher in
urban than in rural areas.
6.        Employment growth has been rapid in the 1970s (an average of 4.7X
p.a. between 1971 and 1976, compared with a total population growth of about
2%). However, it is likely that there has been a slight increase in the level
of open unemployment due to a greater rate of growth of working age population
than of total population and to increased participation rates (50% in
September 1971, 55% in October 1976). Most (54%) of the increased employment
during this period was absorbed in nonagricultural activities, resulting in a
decline in the share of agricultural employment from 66% to 62%. Within the
nonagricultural sector, employment increases largely resulted from proliferat-
ing small-scale enterprises in the manufacturing and service sectors, where
productivity is generally extremely low.
7.        GOI-sponsored programs deserve at least part of the credit for many
of the major advances of the last decade. In particular, the rice intensifi-
cation schemes and the public works programs have demonstrated the GOI-s
capacity to marshal resources in pursuit of its social goals. Between 1971/72
and 1976/77 real expenditures increased at an annual average rate of 37% on
health and family planning, 45% on education, and 31% on housing and water
/1 Includes Liquified Natural Gas ($225 million).
/2 Gross Domestic Income grew even faster, at about 9.5% p.a., due to
improvements in the terms of trade.



-3-
supply, resulting in the rapid development of social infrastructure. For
example, Indonesia's health centers, which totalled 1,058 in 1969, were
increased to 4,029 by 1977; between 1973 and 1978, 31,000 primary schools were
constructed and primary school enrollment reached about 85% in 1979, up from
60% in 1974. Perhaps the most significant achievement of the First and Second
Development Plans has been the success of the National Family Planning
Program, established in 1970, in reducing the overall population growth rate.
Pertility rates have fallen by almost 20% on Java and Bali, where some 37% of
married women in the reproductive age group are practicing modern methods of
contraception.
8.        Despite these advances, however, the magnitude of the poverty pro-
blem and the inadequacy of basic public services remain overwhelming. In
1976, an estimated 50 million people, over one-third of Indonesia-s total
population, spent less than $90 a year (at 1976 prices and exchange rate) and
a large proportion of the labor force was seriously underemployed in both
rural and urban areas. Moreover, the continued prevalence of numeJrous
debilitating diseases, which often stem directly from nutritional deficiencies
and unsanitary living conditions, results in extremely low life expectancy at
birth and a very high mortality rate. Life expectancy at birth in Indonesia
is only 48 years (most recent estimate) compared with 60 years in the
Philippines and 67 years in Malaysia. For the same countries, infant
mortality rates are respectively 126, 65 and 35 per thousand. Every year in
Indonesia approximately 600,000 infants die before attaining the age of one
year. These statistics reflect both low incomes and the underlying inadequacy
of basic public services. Over 100 million Indonesians remain without access
to safe water or sanitary excreta disposal; there are only 6 physicians and 6
nurses per 100,000 of the population; and almost 40% of the adult population
are illiterate.
Development Strategy in the Nonoil Economy
9.        The rehabilitation of infrastructure which has made possible the
impressive growth rate over the last decade and which has underpinned past
development policy must now give way to a new strategy as the task of
rehabilitation is now essentially completed. GOI has recognized this in
preparing its Third Development Plan, Repelita III (1979/80 to 1983/84).
Three primary goals have been specified: a more equitable distribution of the
benefits of growth, a high growth rate, and national stability. High priority
must now be given to the industrial sector since neither agriculture nor
services can be expected to absorb the large projected increases in the labor
force (1.4 million p.a. up to the year 2000) and simultaneously ensure rising
real wage rates.
10.       The prospects for an outward-looking labor-intensive industrial
development have been improved by a number of GOI policy decisions. The most
dramatic of these was the devaluation of the rupiah from Rp 415 to Rp 625 per
US dollar on November 15, 1978. Its purpose was to reverse some of the
adverse relative price changes in the economy that had occurred earlier in the
decade and thus encourage a shift of resources away from the nontraded goods



- 4 -
sector towards labor-intensive import substitution and export industries.
In support of the aims of Repelita III and the devaluation, GOI has also
simplified the investment licensing process and exporting procedures and
introduced a system of export certificates - tax rebates - to encourage
exporters. A new corporation tax law was promulgated in March 1979 providing
greater incentives to entrepreneurs, particularly those in smaller-scale
ventures and those using the services of a public accountant. On the monetary
side a start has been made in making the commercial banking system more
responsive to the needs of small-scale enterprises.
11.       A detailed industrial development strategy has not yet been articu-
lated, although the Repelita III document acknowledges that private investment
will be relied upon as the primary means of industrial job creation. Despite
the improvements outlined above, it is not yet clear that private entrepre-
neurs will be able or willing to invest sufficiently in those sectors most
conducive to job creation and income growth. In particular there are two
issues that require urgent attention. First, although some improvements have
been made, many entrepreneurs still complain about cumbersome administrative
procedures and controls associated with the highly centralized government
bureaucracy. Second, the high level of effective protection, which has
increased over the last year, may encourage the misallocation of scarce
capital and managerial resources. Indonesia's potential for manufactured
exports is considerable but it is unlikely that these exports will ever
provide the stimulus to growth that has been enjoyed by other smaller East
Asian countries. In the medium term it is more likely that Indonesia's
"engine of growth' will be its own large domestic market. However, it is
important that barriers to trade be reduced in order to provide appropriate
market signals and to encourage those sectors in which a genuine comparative
advantage exists. The formal tariff structure is probably less significant
than the high administrative costs and delays associated with importing. The
important improvements made in exporting procedures over the last year have
demonstrated that rapid changes can be made in this area. Similar advances on
the import side would improve resource allocation by reducing the prolifera-
tion of domestic industries that have little prospect of ever attaining
international competitiveness. In many countries devaluation has been
accompanied by a rationalization of the tariff structure. Although this has
not yet occurred in Indonesia, the recent increases in oil revenues have, by
substantially increasing foreign exchange reserves, provided an additional
opportunity.
Short-Run Stability and Long-Run Development
12.       Medium-term prospects for the balance of payments and the GOI budget
have improved fundamentally in recent months. Three factors - the -
devaluation, an improvement in the nonoil terms of trade, and the oil price
rise - have been responsible. The effect of the devaluation on the external
accounts is still not clear although there is some evidence of significant
supply-side response in some sectors. The improvement in the balance of
payments that followed immediately after November 1978 was due less to the



- 5 -
commodities./l As a result, Indonesia achieved an external surplus of over
$700 million in 1978/79. Most important, however, has been the increase in
the export price of crude oil to $32 a barrel in January 1980. This is
expected to generate additional oil and liquified natural gas export earnings
of $3.1 billion in 1979/80. Budget revenues have also benefitted from these
developments. Since over half of the GOI's revenues were denominated in
foreign exchange, an immediate effect of the devaluation was to dramatically
increase budgetary revenues in terms of rupiah. As a result of the oil price
increases, budget revenues from oil and liquified natural gas are predicted to
rise from $3.7 billion in 1978/79 to $8.9 billion in 1979/80.
13.       These favorable developments, while clearly presenting a valuable
opportunity to undertake development programs and stimulate private industrial
enterprise, may also present serious problems of short-run price and monetary
stability. This potential conflict could be seen, for example, in the mea-
sures taken by GOI to ameliorate the inflationary effects of the devaluation,
which, while successful in keeping prices under control, sometimes tended to
counteract the desired effects of the devaluation. Notable here was the tight
control exerted over private sector credit creation which may have limited
investment in those export sectors that the devaluation was designed to
encourage. In addition, the increased foreign exchange revenue presents
potentially difficult problems of monetary management. The manner in which
Indonesia increases its capacity to absorb imports effectively will be a
primary determinant of Indonesia's future growth prospects.
Domestic Resource Mobilization and External Capital Flows
14.       In the immediate future, the availability of foreign exchange will
not be a constraint on development due to the increase in export revenues and
the consequent improvement in creditworthiness. (In 1979 Indonesia's debt-
service ratio fell from 18% to 16%)./2 In the medium and long run, however,
the situation is less clear, due to uncertainty about how quickly Indonesia
will be able to absorb its sudden increase in wealth, and because projections
of future export revenues remain highly speculative. It is therefore import-
ant that increased efforts be made to mobilize domestic financial resources.
The GOIs concern with this issue is demonstrated by its stated intention of
eliminating budget subsidies on consumer goods. To this end, domestic prices
of all oil products were increased by an average of about 40% in April and May
1979, although the budget savings have since been nullified by increases in
international prices. On May 1, 1980, GOI therefore raised domestic oil
prices by a further 50%, and this partially compensated for increases in
international prices of oil. There is considerable scope for improving the
nonoil tax base, which accounts for less than 45% of total revenues. For
example, taxes on personal and business incomes amount to only 3% of GNP, and
/1 The nonoil terms of trade improved by 42% between October 1978 and
July 1979.
/2  Ratio of debt service payments to commodity export earnings, with oil
and gas on a net basis.



- 6 -
taxes on consumption, to 2.5% of GNP. Expanding the tax base, eliminating
loopholes, and improving administration are the obvious means of securing a
larger and more equitable tax burden. The mobilization of private sector
financial resources is hindered at present by the absence of attractive
long-term financial instruments, but GOI's encouragement of the fledgling
Jakarta Stock Exchange will hopefully result in an important source of
domestic funds in the medium term.
15.       The Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia (IGGI) remains the prin-
cipal source of external capital, including Official Development Assistance
(ODA), to the country. The Bank's 1979 basic economic report on Indonesia
recommended that total ODA reach at least $1.93 billion in 1979, of which at
least 70% should be on concessional and semi-concessional terms. This
recommendation was achieved. The Bank-s economic memorandum on Indonesia
(dated February 20, 1980) recommended a level of assistance of $2.1 billion
for 1980, which would represent no increase in real terms over the recommended
and actual amount of ODA for 1979. At the meeting of the IGGI in May 1980,
the indication of probable commitments in 1980 made by bilateral and
multilateral IGGI members amounted to almost this level.
16.       In the past selective local cost financing of projects has been
recommended since it was estimated that financing only the foreign exchange
cost of projects would not suffice to meet Indonesia's long-term capital
requirements. Since Indonesia's foreign exchange position has now improved
local cost financing will, in the future, be limited to projects of key
importance and where such financing is required to ensure a significant Bank
contribution.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA /1
17.       As of December 31, 1980, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
totalling $931.8 million, and 53 Bank loans amounting to $3,147.0 million.
IFC investments totalled $132.5 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt futstanding at the end of 1978 was
about 8.3%, and the share of debt service atyDut 3.0%. By the end of 1979,
these ratios are estimated to have increasecl to around 9.5% and 4.8%, respec-
tively. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC
investments as of November 30, 1980, as weJa. as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
18.       During Repelita I, and in line with the objectives of this First
Plan, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was directed toward the
rehabilitation of deteriorated infrastructure and production facilities,
/1 Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the University
Development Project (No. P-2873-IND), circulated under cover of
R80-259, dated August 27, 1980, and approved by the Executive Directors
on September 16, 1980.



meeting the critical shortage of skilled manpower, and technical assistance
needed for preinvestment studies and project execution. As the focus of
GOI-s policy shifted during Repelita II towards expansion of productive
capacity in the agriculture, transportation and power sectors, as well as
improvement in the quality and delivery of basic public services, the thrust
of our lending changed to focus on these objectives. Given the critical
importance of agriculture (including transmigration) for employment, food
security and exports, over one-third of Bank Group-supported projects have
been in this sector. In addition, loans and credits have been extended to
virtually all other sectors of the economy, including fertilizer production
and distribution, transportation, education, urban development, water supply,
rural development, nutrition, industrial development financing (including
small industry development), power, telecommunications, population and
technical assistance.
19.       Indonesia is currently in the process of implementing its Third
Five-Year Plan, Repelita III. As noted in Part I above, this document,
while stressing the need for continued high growth and stability, departs
from previous Plans by placing special emphasis on income distribution and
poverty alleviation. This focus, which is fully in line with the
conclusions of the basic economic report, in turn requires greater attention
to employment generation and improvements in basic public services. While
GOI's agricultural programs are expected to generate significant employment
opportunities, the long-term solution to Indonesia's employment problem is
primarily dependent on the articulation and implementation of a coherent
labor-intensive industrialization strategy. To support this effort the Bank
plans to significantly expand its hitherto modest involvement in this sector.
As part of this initiative, an operation designed to support several
industrial DFCs through an umbrella institution (most probably Bank Indonesia)
is at an advanced stage of preparation, and projects to support export
processing zones and wood processing, and to further expand Bank assistance to
small-scale enterprises are at various stages of identification and
preparation. A comprehensive program of economic work in the industrial
sector is underway to provide the necessary understandings and backup for this
expanded operation.
20.       Outside industry, no major shifts in the balance of Bank lending are
expected. Given the importance of rice production, irrigation will continue
to absorb a substantial portion of Bank agricultural lending; however, the
Bank also plans to take further initiatives to promote secondary food crops.
Continued support for provision of basic services (population, education,
health, nutrition, urban development and water supply) as well as the tradi-
tional sectors (power and transport) is also anticipated. Since it is clear
that the achievement of the GOI's employment and equity objectives will become
increasingly dependent on the development of appropriate sectoral policy
packages and strategies, institutions, and staff development, it is expected
that the focus of the above operations will gradually broaden to a subsector
and sector approach. The proposed sectoral approach is designed to enable
Bank assistance to be responsive to these demands, and to continue its
institution-building efforts in a broader context than has been done hitherto.



21.       Both the Bank and GOI have become increasingly concerned about the
level of disbursements, which has shown a declining trend in the past three
years. Many of the problems appear to be related to GOI's cumbersome
budgetary, procurement and payment procedures, including issuance of tender
documents and opening of letters of credit. These problems are further
compounded by the severe shortages of both managerial and technical manpower.
A number of steps have been taken by GOI and the Bank to address these issues.
Several special Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems
and make recommendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures.
GOI and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint review
procedures to identify general and project-specific problems and work out
corrective measures. The first of these reviews was held in June 1979, and a
second, more comprehensive one, in September 1980. In addition, a procurement
seminar (planned to be the first of a series) was held in Jakarta in September
1979. As a consequence of these joint initiatives, over the past few months
GOI announced several measures to streamline the more complex budgetary and
financial procedures affecting project implementation. Finally, to reduce
initial project implementation difficulties, many operations (this one in
particular) are now being presented for Board consideration at a later stage
in the project cycle. While it is still too early to assess the effect of
these steps on project implementation, the indications are that improvements
are now taking place. This was reflected in an increase in disbursements from
$206.8 million in FY79 to $277.8 million in FY80.
22.       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through IDA.
Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity and oil
price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent lending has
been through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending being justified
primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP ($360 in 1978) was well
below the IDA cutoff of $625. Given Indonesia's much improved balance of
payments position, IDA lending was discontinued in FY80.
23.       The proposed project, which is consistent with the strategy dis-
cussed above, constitutes the third lending operation presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year. Projects involving nucleus estates and
smallholders, swamp reclamation and urban development are expected to be ready
for presentation in the next several months.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR AND ELECTRICITY SUBSECTOR
Energy Resources
24.       Indonesia is richly endowed with energy resources including oil,
natural gas, coal, hydropower and geothermal energy.  Petroleum reserves have
been exploited for some time, and petroleum now accounts for 90% of total
commercial energy consumption. Reserves are estimated at about 50 billion
barrels, but proven resources are between 10-15 billion barrels. With
production at around 1.6 million barrels per day, projected increases in
domestic demand could rapidly reduce the surplus available for export and



- 9 -
have serious consequences for the growth of the economy. GOI has therefore
adopted a policy of promoting alternative indigenous energy sources for
domestic consumption such as coal, hydroelectricity, natural gas and
geothermal.
25.       The estimated natural gas reserve is about 34 trillion cu ft, of
which 5 trillion cu ft represents gas associated with oil production. The
present production level is about 80 billion cu ft per year. Pipelines have
recently been laid to steel and fertilizer factories and consumption is
expected to increase at the rate of 15% per year during the next five years.
Export of natural gas in the liquified form has commenced and is expected to
grow rapidly.
26.        Indonesia's coal reserves are conservatively estimated at 1.2
billion tons, 86% of which are in Sumatra and the balance in Kalimantan.
Some estimates place the total reserves at as high as 15.0 billion tons.
Production is currently running at about 250,000 tons per year, but in 1940
it reached a peak of 2 million tons. Consistent with GOI policy of increas-
ing the utilization of nonoil energy resources, coal production is now to
be expanded. To this end, a major project is being developed at the Bukit
Asam field in South Sumatra. This project, which is being considered for
Bank financing, would involve production of 3 million tons per year by 1985;
most of its output will be used for power generation at the Suralaya thermal
station in West Java.
27.        The theoretical hydropower potential of the country has been
roughly estimated at 31,000 MW. Although the distribution is not ideal (the
greatest potential lying in Irian Jaya where electricity demand is smallest,
while Java has the greatest demand and least potential), exploitation of
this potential to the extent possible is also a central element of GOI
energy policy. This proposed project is a major element of this strategy;
other hydroelectric projects are under construction in Sumatra and at the
planning stage in West and Central Java. While geothermal resources are
known to exist in a number of observed fields, stretching from Sumatra to
Irian Jaya, the exact extent is not yet known. Development is so far
confined to a 30 1W first stage project at Kamojang, Java.
28.        The potential for nuclear power generation in Indonesia as a means
of oil substitution has been reviewed on a number of occasions; the latest is
a recent study by the Italian Nuclear and Electricity Agencies which concludes
that introduction of a nuclear power station would be justified by 1989/90.
However, the presence of indigenous uranium has not yet been proven and the
conclusions of this study are being carefully reviewed by GOI.
29.        Besides promoting the exploitation of alternative commercial energy
sources, GOI is also exploring possibilities of substituting charcoal for
kerosene, particularly in rural areas. Indonesia-s forestry resources



- 10 -
are abundant, and since they represent renewable sources of energy, the
country could derive considerable savings if appropriate technologies were
developed to facilitate the use of firewood for energy. A USAID-funded
study is shortly to be launched to shed more light on these and related
renewable energy options.
Energy Policy
30.       The principal agency responsible for the implementation of GOI
policies in the energy sector is the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME).
MME was established in 1978 to coordinate all activities in the energy
sector and control the state enterprises responsible for the execution of
GOI policies in the energy subsectors - oil and gas (PERTAMINA), coal
(BATUBARA) and electricity (PLN). Other ministries and agencies are also
involved in the sector; for example, Public Works supervises hydropower
sources, Agriculture oversees forestry products, and the National Atomic
Energy Commission is responsible for nuclear development. In order to
ensure appropriate coordination of energy policy the President recently
established an inter-ministerial National Energy Board to oversee sectoral
development.
31.       The general sector objectives expressed in Repelita III may be
summarized as follows:
(a) diversification of primary energy sources, particularly
renewable sources;
(b) improving the efficiency of energy conversion and utilization; and
(c) expanding research programs.
As the available statistics on both energy resources and consumption are
limited the Bank Group has funded a number of studies on energy supply and
demand: work on electricity demand in Java was financed under Credit 399;
hydropower potential is being investigated under Loan 1365; and a sector
management information system will be financed under Loan 1513. More
recently, the Minister of NME asked the Bank to undertake a more comprehen-
sive survey of the energy sector with a view to systematizing the data
currently available, identifying the major deficiencies and assisting GOI to
determine the best method of proceeding with sector development and policy
formulation. It is intended that the sector survey should serve as a
vehicle to identify ways in which the Bank may broaden its support for
sector development and assist GOI in formulating a total strategy for energy
exploitation; an initial mission visited Jakarta in November 1980.



- 11 -
32.       Among the issues facing the sector is the system of energy
pricing. Subsidized petroleum product prices have caused serious
distortions in the economy by failing to reflect the value of these products
to the economy as export goods. The effects of this have been to favor the
use of oil over other competing fuels, the promotion of domestic consumption
over exports, and, because the degree of subsidy between oil products is
uneven, the distortion of demand between individual petroleum products.
However, in recent discussions with the Bank, GOI has expressed its intention
eventually to eliminate these subsidies subject to ensuring the availability
of basic needs to the poor. In fact, a major step was taken in this
direction in May 1980 when the price of gasoline was increased to the
international level. However, while kerosene, diesel fuel and fuel oil prices
were also increased, they remain substantially below world market prices.
The ElectriTity Subsector
33.       The electricity subsector is regulated by the MME through its
Directorate General of Electric Power. The subsector comprises (i) PLN
(discussed below in detail), (ii) captive plants installed by private
parties for their own use, (iii) small municipal franchises, and (iv) a
small number of cooperatives which were set up to provide electricity in
remote rural areas.
34.       PLN Backgtound.  PLN is a public corporation (Perum) constituted
under Presidential Decree No. 18 of 1972, with responsibility for the
generation, transmission and distribution of electricity and the planning,
construction and operation of electricity supply facilities. Until 1979
these responsibilities were exclusive to PLN, but in that year, with the
objective of facilitating the exploitation of electric power, GOI enacted
legislation allowing the intervention of private entities and cooperatives
in the sector under license from MME; thus far, no such entities have been
so licensed.
35.       PLN is managed by a board of directors headed by a president
director, who is appointed by the President and is accountable to the
Minister of MME. The president director has authority for all day-to-day
operations of PLN. The board currently comprises five other directors with
functional responsibility for planning, construction, operations, finance
and administration.
36.       As PLN has experienced rapid growth since its organization struc-
ture and management systems were established in the early seventies, these
have recently been subjected to a management audit sponsored by PLN. In
this management audit, a large number of recommendations for improvement of
PLN operations were developed. In response, the president director set up a
working party to review these recommendations in detail; subsequently, a



- 12 -
number have been implemented. The next major management development in PLN
is likely to involve increased decentralization of responsibility, so as to
strengthen regional and construction management and avoid the risk of
headquarters becoming a bottleneck as the corporation grows. Steps towards
greater regional involvement in facilities planning were taken during the
1981 planning cycle, and a series of management development courses has been
initiated specifically for regional and branch managers. Extension of the
decentralization policy to regional operation and construction units must
naturally be undertaken slowly and carefully; to some extent it will be
dependent on the introduction of improved and restructured information
systems.
37.       PLN's Market.  Past records on PLN's market are limited to PLN's
sales which, because of the very low levels of consumption and the severe
restrictions and interruptions affecting service, reflect PLN's ability to
meet supply rather than potential demand. A study to assess potential
demand in Java was undertaken in 1974-76 by consultants financed under an
early power project (Credit 399); this is currently used by PLN as the basis
for investment planning in Java. It suggests that PLN's sales growth will
be limited only by its own ability to supply until about 1986, when full
market penetration will be achieved; thereafter, sales growth in Java will
be delimited by growth of the market itself. Similar studies are currently
in progress in Bali and Sulawesi, and one is planned for Sumatra. Thus,
while market size is unlikely to be a constraint on growth within the lead
times of the facilities PLN is currently beginning to construct, PLN must
take steps to ensure that its future investment decisions are based on sound
market knowledge. To this end it has been agreed GOI will provide energy
resource data and policy guidelines to be used in establishing future power
demand (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan Agreement) and that PLN will improve
the capability of its power market survey units at Central (Pusat) and
Regional (Wilayah) levels (Section 3.04 of the draft Project Agreement).
38.       PLN has recently developed in-house capability for carrying out
least-cost generation planning studies with computer modelling and this has
been employed to arrive at the development plan for Java, which is expected
to continue to account for about 80% of PLN's electricity sales through the
1980s. GOI has agreed, through PLN, to review annually with the Bank change
in demand growth in Java and consequent variations in PLN's development
program there, and take steps to implement such a program (Section 4.02(a)
of the draft Loan Agreement). Planning for the Other Islands, which
typically require much smaller generating units because of their geographic
dispersal, is carried out by less sophisticated methods. It was agreed that
PLN will improve the capability of its central system planning unit to
identify emerging bottlenecks, and ensure that power systems remain adequate
as demand escalates (Section 3.04 (ii) of the draft Project Agreement).
39.       Existing PLN Facilities.  Until the early seventies, the expansion
of PLN-s facilities was constrained by the foreign exchange shortages
Indonesia faced. Accordingly, a crash program of development was instituted
which resulted in gas turbines being preferred; these still comprise about



- 13 -
34% of the total capacity. However, this imbalance in plant is being
corrected; as part of its present program, 1,000 MW of new steam capacity
will be commissioned by PLN by 1982 and a number of hydroelectric projects
are under implementation.
40.       PLN also operates over 4,000 km of transmission lines at 70 and
150 kV and about 45,000 km of distribution lines, the bulk of which are in
Java. About 2,000 km of 150 kV transmission lines under construction are
scheduled for completion by 1982; Java will have a fully interconnected grid
at 150 kV by 1982. A 500 kV system covering West and Central Java will be
commissioned by 1984 and extended throughout Java thereafter.
41.       PLN's Development Plan.  PLN follows the practice of preparing
annually a ten-year development plan to cover the projected requirements of
generation, transmission, distribution and other facilities. GOI has agreed
through PLN to review annually with the Bank PLN's investment program for
the next year (Section 4.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). The latest
plan covers the development period FY81 to FY90. It has been formulated on
the basis of the following objectives:
(a) optimize domestic resource utilization by substituting use of oil
by coal, hydro and geothermal resources for power generation and
by reducing the use of fuel-inefficient installations;
(b) realize economies of scale through larger sized installations;
(c) achieve operational economy by coordinating the utilization of
plants through interconnected operations; and
(d) achieve and maintain acceptable standards of reliability of supply.
42.       On the basis of the present knowledge of the market, the overall
rate of growth of sales envisaged in PLN's plan is an average of 22% per year
through 1983, falling to 16% by 1989. One condition for achieving these
targets will be PLN's ability to implement an adequate connection program.
To address this PLN has agreed to prepare and furnish to the Bank for its
review its annual consumer connection program and thereafter implement it in
a satisfactory manner (Section 2.10 of the draft Project Agreement).
43.       PLN's development plan shows generating capacity increasing from
2,500 MW to over 9,300 MW by the end of the decade. The greatest part of
the increase (4,300 MW) will be in the form of thermal plants; by 1990 they
will contribute over half the generating capacity and all of those to be
planned from now on will be coal-fired. New hydroelectric plants will add
1,500 MW, over 20%, of the additional capacity. Together with associated
transmission and distribution facilities, the plan is estimated (at constant
1979 prices) to cost a total of $11 billion for the decade, of which $7 bil-
lion would be in foreign exchange.



- 14 -
44.       PLN's Financial Results.  PLN operated at or near breakeven in net
income terms for four years through FY79 (ended March 31, 1979). A loss of
Rp 22 billion reported for FY80 (subject to audit) is attributable to
increased depreciation charges arising from a revaluation of assets carried
out during that year. PLN's investment program began to accelerate rapidly
in 1974/75 and by FY80 capital expenditure was running at over Rp 300 billion
annually - more than twice sales revenue. With negligible net earnings,
PLN's only sources of internal funds have been depreciation retentions and
customers' connection fees, which amounted to 17% of capital expenditures
over the last five years. GOI provided the rest of the funds required,
mainly in the form of equity capital, though recently the onlending of funds
from international lenders has formed an increasing proportion of GOI
funding to PLN. PLN has agreed under past power projects that it would
attain by FY86 a level of contribution to its investment program from
internally generated funds of not less than 30% (this implies a rate of return
on revalued assets of approximately 8%); this contribution target has been
reconfirmed by PLN (Section 4.04 of the draft Project Agreement). Indicative
target levels of contribution for the intervening years have also been
adopted: 12% for FY81-FY82, 20% for FY83-FY84, and 25% for FY85. PLN
achieved its indicative target in FY80, and on the basis of existing tariffs,
is forecast to do so in FY81 and FY82. Attainment of the indicative targets
for FY83 through FY85, and the covenanted level for FY86 and beyond, will
call for a further tariff increase in due time. Since loan financing is a
relatively recent innovation for PLN, its debt:equity ratio stands at the
conservative level of 12:88. The current ratio is 4.3, and with assets
including Rp 70 billion in cash, the company's liquid position is satis-
factory. It has been agreed that PLN will maintain a debt:equity ratio of
60:40 or below and a debt service coverage of 1.3 (Sections 4.05 and 4.06(a)
of the draft Project Agreement).
45.       PLN's tariffs remained unchanged from FY76 until May 1, 1980 when
a new tariff structure was introduced with the objective of better reflecting
the long-run marginal costs of supply to various consumer groups. At the
same time rates were revised upward, resulting in an increase in the average
revenue for kWh from Rp 27 to Rp 42 (57%).  In addition, the existing fuel
cost surcharge was widened to allow all actual cost increases to be passed
on to consumers. One problem which has affected PLN's financial performance
has been the collection of bills from GOI departments and agencies. To
address this, it has been agreed that all GOI bills will be paid by the 15th
of each month and that by March 31, 1982, all GOI accounts will be current
(Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
46.       PLN's Performance Under Previous Bank Group Lending.  The Bank has
provided $889 million through nine different loans and credits for power
generation/distribution facilities in and around Jakarta and in West and
Central Java.  Specifically, three distribution projects (Credits 165 and
334, and Loan 1259) have been approved for the rehabilitation and expansion
of the distribution facilities in the greater Jakarta area and six power
generation projects (Credit 399, and Loans 1127, 1365, 1513, 1708 and 1872)
in West and Central Java have been undertaken to help PLN expand the Java



- 15 -
network. Past loans and credits also provided funds for various consulting
services for management studies, demand studies and feasibility studies.
47.       Out of the nine projects four have been completed, two are
nearing completion, and three are in the early stages of construction.
PLN's performance in implementing these projects has been uneven but is now
improving. The earlier distribution projects (Credits 165 and 334) were
completed more than three years behind schedule. A Project Performance
Audit Report on these two projects, which was issued in November 1979,
concluded that despite the delay in project completion (which in large
measure was attributed to the unfamiliarity of the Bank and the borrower/
beneficiary with each other's procedures) the projects had a significant
beneficial impact on the beneficiary's administration and that the projects
were sound, with advantages for power supply reliability and voltage
stability. In generation, the earliest project (Credit 399) covering the
first and second units at Muara Karang was completed about two years late;
the next (Loan 1127) for the third unit, less than one year late. Subse-
quent generation projects at Muara Karang (Loan 1365) and Semarang (Loan 1513)
are about 4-6 months behind appraisal schedule; two projects at Suralaya
(Loans 1708 and 1872), although still at an early stage, are more or less on
schedule. Presently, ongoing projects are free of major problems.
48.       There are other quantitative indications of PLN's steady improvement
in performance. Its system losses, as high as 27% on FY75, was down to 25%
during FY79 and was less than 22% in FY80. The generation (MWHI) per employee
increased from 240 in FY75 to about 340 during FY80. There is however still
scope for improvement.            >
PART IV - THE PROJECT
49.       The Saguling hydroelectric project was identified in the Java System
Development Study carried out by Preece, Cardew and Rider, UV, in 1975-76;
this work was funded under Credit 399. The feasibility study was undertaken
by New Japan Engineering Consultants (Newjec), who have also been entrusted
with detailed engineering and preparation of bid documents. A Bank mission
appraised the project in September 1980, and negotiations were held in
Washington in January 1981; the Indonesian delegation was led by Dr. Samaun
Samadikun, Director General Power, MME. Supplementary data are in Annex III.
The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3185-IND) is being circulated separately to
the Executive Directors.
Project Objectives
50.       The project would provide 700 MW of generating capacity in Java,
where electric power consumption is increasing rapidly and where additional
facilities are vitally necessary to support economic growth. The project
will also assist GOI's policy of economizing in the consumption of
domestic oil by maximizing the use of renewable primary energy sources
(paras. 24 and 31 above). At commissioning, Saguling would be the biggest
hydroelectric power station in Indonesia and would increase PLN's hydropower
generating capacity by over 50%. It is on the least-cost path of electric
power development for Java.



- 16 -
Project Description
51.       The project comprises:
(a) the 700 MW Saguling hydroelectric power facility, including
construction of a 97.5 m high rockfill storage dam on the
Citarum river; a 6.5 km long water conductor system comprising
tunnels, surgetanks, and penstocks; and a power station (with
four generating sets, each rated at 175 MW), with an associated
500 kV step-up substation;
(b) equipment for a PLN construction task force to ensure that the
construction schedule of the main project is not adversely
affected by delays. The required construction equipment is
estimated to cost about $500,000;
(c) detailed engineering of the Cirata hydroelectric project. PLN-s
latest update of studies of the least-cost development sequence
for Java indicated that the Cirata site -- on the Citarum river
downstream of Saguling -- should be developed for hydroelectric
power generation, with commissioning during 1986/87. Feasibility
investigations of the site financed through Loan 1365 (Power VI
project) are in progress and the draft report which was recently
reviewed by Bank staff indicates that the project is technically,
financially and economically viable. PLN intends to carry
through with detailed design and engineering for this project
and this proposed loan includes $7.5 million for the purpose; and
(d) consultancy services to assist PLN with:
(i) power market surveys;
(ii) power system analysis; and
(iii) civil works contract management.



- 17 -
Implementation
52.       The project will be implemented by PLN.  PLN has appointed a
project manager who has experience in dam construction in Indonesia, along
with an adequate complement of field staff. The project manager will be
assisted by PLN's headquarters staff, who also have some experience in
execution of smaller hydroelectric projects.  However, as this .--I  be the
first major dam contract which PLN will be involved in, it feels that expert
assistance may be required on occasion during the implementation period;
funds are accordingly provided under the loan for the engagement of such
experts. The construction organization and arrangements proposed are
appropriate for the nature of work involved.
53.       Newjec is the consulting engineer and is responsible for design
and construction supervision of the project. In addition, a Special Board
of Consultants (SBC) was appointed early in 1978 to review the
investigations and designs of the project and ensure that due consideration
was given to all aspects involving safety of the structures. It has been
agreed with PLN that the SBC will continue its monitoring throughout the
construction stage. The appointments of Newjec and the SBC members were
made by PLN, in consultation with the Bank. Consultants, including SBC,
will continue to be employed under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank (Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
54.       Detailed engineering of the project was completed during mid-1980.
Final designs, including proposals for instrumentation, have been prepared
and incorporated in bid documents for the main civil works (comprising the
dam, water-conductor system, penstocks, power house and switchyards) which
were issued on August 1, 1980. The final desians, as well as the bid
documents have been reviewed by the SBC. The following preparatory works of
the project are now in various stages of implementation: (a) construction
of about 34 km of access roads, improvement and upgrading of about 17 km of
existing roads, and two main construction camps; and (b) relocation of
about 8 km of roads and construction of three new bridges. The target is to
commission the first two generating sets by March 1985 and the remaining two
during September 1985. The construction program is tight but capable of
being achieved. Crucial to its success is the awarding of the main civil
works contract in time to enable the main contractor to mobilize and start
work on the diversion tunnels for the main dam by July 1, 1981. A failure
to achieve this date would set back completion of the dam, and hence the
commissioning of the project, by a whole year. Cognisant of the problem, PLN
and GOI have reviewed their procedures and prepared a detailed working
arrangement involving special procedures for bid evaluation and approval of
the main civil works contracts, which, if adhered to, could meet the project
requirements. After commissioning of the project, periodic inspection and
regular maintenance of the works will be essential; at negotiations, PLN
undertook to prepare such a program satisfactory to the Bank, and to imple-
ment it throughout the operational period of the project (Sections 2.08 (a)
and 2.09 of the draft Project Agreement).



- 18 -
Costs and Financing
55.       Total project costs are estimated at $726.7 million, of which
$386.6 (53%) is in foreign exchange. These costs include taxes totalling 5%
of the local expenditures for civil works. Physical contingencies have been
provided for at 5% for electrical and mechanical equipment, at 10% for
penstocks and other metal works, and at 15% for civil works. Base prices
are at September 1979 price levels. Price contingencies on the local
currency portion have been estimated at 15% for FY80/81 and 10% thereafter.
For electrical and mechanical equipment and engineering costs, (all OECF-
financed), foreign escalation has been based on an annual rate of 5%,
reflecting the expected rate in Japan. Other foreign costs have been
calculated at the following rates: 10.5% for FY80; 9.0% for FY81; 8.0% for
FY82; 7.0% for 1983-85 and 6.0% for 1986.
56.       The cost estimate for engineering of the Saguling Project covers
740 man-months for construction design and 1,100 man-months for supervision
of construction. The average man-month cost, including basic salary,
overhead and fee, international travel, overseas allowance for resident
field engineers and subsistence allowances for staff on short field visits,
is about $11,000. Detailed engineering for the Cirata hydroelectric project
covers the work up to preparation of bid documents, and is expected to take
20 months, involving about 500 man-months of expatriate effort, at an
average man-month cost of $10,000.
57.       The proposed Bank loan of $250 million will finance 65% of foreign
exchange costs, and will be allocated to the estimated foreign costs of the
main civil works and penstocks, engineering of Cirata hydroelectric project,
selected consulting services, and PLN construction equipment. The loan from
OECF of $136.6 million would finance 35% of foreign exchange costs, covering
the estimated foreign costs of the engineering and construction supervision
of the project and the electrical, mechanical and hydraulic equipment. GOI
and PLN would provide the remaining $340.1 million, all local costs.
58.       As in previous operations, the proposed Bank loan would be to the
GOI which will onlend the proceeds to PLN on terms equivalent to those of
the Bank loan; the foreign exchange risk will be borne by GOI. Interest and
commitment charges during the grace period of the loan would be capitalized
and financed by GOI/PLN. Signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement will be a
condition of loan effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
59.       Procurement of items to be financed under the proposed Bank loan
would be through international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines. The civil and metal works bidders were prequalified by PLN,
after due international notification, in consultation with the Bank. The
items to be financed under the OECF loan would be procured through limited



- 19 -
bidding in Japan and less developed countries. Other local costs items
would be procured, as hitherto, through local bidding procedures, which
have been found to be appropriate.
60.        The proposed Bank loan will be disbursed against the following
items: (a) metal works - 100% of the foreign expenditures; (b) civil works -
61% of expenditures, (c) construction equipment - 100% of foreign expendi-
tures for directly imported goods, 95% of the ex-factory cost for locally
manufactured goods and 65% of the expenditures for imported goods procured
locally; and (d) consultants services - 100% of expenditures. No disburse-
ments will be made for expenditures prior to loan signing.
Benefits and Risks
61.       Projecting  existing tariffs currently paid by the consumers to be
served as a reflection of benefits (and assuming they will remain constant
in real terms), the economic rate of return to the project is 16%. The
project would, in addition to the benefit of power generation at Saguling,
afford downstream benefits for further power generation (as at Cirata and
Rajamandala sites); these have not been evaluated. The return of the
project would be reduced to about 14% if there is a delay in construction
of one year combined with a cost increase of about 10%.
62.        The risks associated with the proposed project are the
uncertainties inherent in most hydroelectric projects, such as possible
geological problems, hydrological complexities, and similar matters.
However, the thorough and competent preparatory work undertaken by PLN and
consultants, as well as the precautions taken in establishing the SBC
right from the stage of feasibility studies through detailed engineering,
are expected to keep the risks to a minimum. Contractors have been
directed to provide for conventional all-risk insurance as a separate item
in their bids.
Environmental and Ecological Impact
63.       Environmental aspects have been given due consideration from the
initiation of project investigations in 1976. There has been extensive
involvement of environmental specialists both from Indonesia and abroad in
baseline and impact studies, design, and implementation planning. The
cooperation of project management and local leaders has been commendable:
local leaders have supported the project by issuing five decrees to
facilitate land acquisition, resettlement planning and resettlement
implementation. In June 1980, the Minister for Environment cleared the
project for construction.
64.        Compensation and resettlement of persons with homes or other major
interest in the reservoir areas was the most serious environmental problem
confronting the project. To resolve it, the following measures have been
taken: (a) a two-year anthropological, socio-economic, and ecological base-
line and impact study (including censuses and property inventories) has been
completed; (b) alternatives to transmigration have been developed, scheduled



- 20 -
and evaluated; (c) decrees freezing land transactions, creating a
Resettlement Coordinating Board, stating resettlement policy, and creating
the resettlement implementation team have been issued and are now in effect;
and (d) a direct-payment compensation system has been in satisfactory
operation for more than a year. In addition, the problem of optimizing the
high water level of the reservoir and its design life, public health
impacts, aquatic weed control, fisheries enhancement and drawdown
agriculture were the main ecological issues; all of these have been the
subject of investigation, and satisfactory arrangements to regulate each
have been made.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and PLN, and the
report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
66.       In addition to the special features of the Loan and Project
Agreements which are referred to in Section III of Annex III, an additional
condition of effectiveness of the Loan (para. 58 above) includes that the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been signed on behalf of the Borrower and PLN.
67.        T am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
February 3, 1981
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
-21 
Page 1 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AIERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                         - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            2027.1                                  MOST RECENT             LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      292.5               1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb         ASIA & PACIFIC           ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    80.0        130.0      380.0                 212.4                  1114.7
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       129.0        120.0     278.0                  166.0                  842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)       94.7        117.6      136.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 14.6           17.1       19.5                  20.8                    39.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        204.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          350.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2155
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         47.0         58.0      67.0                  193.2                  376.1
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    337.0          419.0     465.0                  409.6                 2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           40.8         44.0      41.0                   42.0                   40.4
15-64 YRS.                           56.1         53.5      56.0                   55.0                   56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.1          2.5       3.0                    3.0                    3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.1          2.2        1.8                   2.2                    2.4
URBAN                                3.8          3.8       3.5                    3.9                    4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       47.0         43.0       37.0                  37.4                   28.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       23.0         18.0       17.0                  14.6                     7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.8          3.2        2.4                   2.6                     1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        181.1    2246.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            0.2      19.0*                  15.6                   39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OP FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            93.0        102.0     107.0                  101.4                  116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     89.0         92.0     105.0                   92.4                  108.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            41.0         41.0      47.0                   49.8                   60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          6.0          6.0       6.0                   12.0                   18.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       31.0         22.0       20.0                  17.9                     5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    41.0           46.0      47.0                   50.8                   63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..        126.0         ..                    ..                   52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          3.0       12.0                  30.2                   42.4
URBAN                                 ..         10.0      35.0                   66.0                   62.1
RURAL                                 ..          1.0       6.0                   20.0                   29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         12.0       15.0                  17.7                   52.8
URBAN                                 ..         50.0      60.0                   71.3                   71.1
RURAL                                 ..          4.0        5.0                    ..                   42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           41000.0/c   26830.0   14580.0                  6322.7                 4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON           ..       8010.0    2818.0                 9459.0                 2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1360.0       1530.0    1578.0                 1758.4                  819.4
URBAN                                 ..       1090.0
RURAL                                 ..       1670.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..       22.4                    ..                   28.8
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                4.4          4.8
URBAN                                4.9          5.3
RURAL                                4.3          4.7
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..          1.5
URBAN                                 ..          1.6
RURAL                                 ..          1.6
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
* Estimate for 1979 is 27%.



- 22 -                                                ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
INDONESIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDONESIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED A ER.AGES
- OST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT             LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /'b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC           ASIA & PACIFIC
7DZCAT MUM
ADJUSTED ENROL;!ENT RAI-25
7R;"ART:      TOTAL                  71.0         78.0       86.0                 80.9                    98.6
tALE                  06.0         83.0       91.0                 94.3                    99.2
EE!LALE                28.0         73.0       81.0                 66.7                    97.7
sECOND2AUY: IOTA            .         .L 6.0      16.0       21.0                 26.6                    55.5
MALE                   ;0.0         21.0       25.0                 34.8                    60.7
FEMALE                  3.0         11.0       17.0                 18.2                    49.9
'OCATIONAL ENROL. (5 OF SECONDARY)  20.0            22.0       21.0                  9.9                    13,7
P''PIL-TEACHUR -ATIC
PENM'ARY                             39.0         29.0       30.0                 41.1                    34.6
SECCNDARY                            14.0         13.0       18.3                 20.5                    28.5
ADULT Ll.ERACY RATE (PERCENT)          39.0         57.0       62.0                 40.9                    65.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
PCPULATION                            1.0          2.0        3.6                  1.8                     9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            7.0         21.0       37.0                 25.8                   118.9
rV RECEIVERS ?ER T!IOSAND
POPULATION                            0.1          0.8        2.3                  2.4                    39.
UNE'OSPRPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCDLATION PER
THRLNAAD POPULATION                      ..           ..       16.0                 13.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..              ..        0.9                   ..                     4.9
'ABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    34752.5         41547.3   48610.8
FEMIALE (PERCENT)                    27.9         31.0       29.0                 29.4                    36.8
A5RTCULTURE (PERCENT )               74.8         66.3       60.1                 70.5                    5L.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    8.4          9.7       11.0                 11.6                    21.9
PAgTICIPAT'ON RATE (PERCENT)
TOT'.L                                 36.7         35.3       34.6                 37.9                    39.1
M!ALE                                  54.2         49.5       48.6                 51.3                    4S.5
FE!fALE                                20.0         21.6       20.8                 23.7                    29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  1.2          1.3        1.2                  1.2                     I.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..         33.7/d
HIGhEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            52.07         ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..          6.87d
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..         17.37;        .
TOVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USi PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..      150.0/e              107.8
RLRAL                                  ..           ..      107.07                86.5                   192.1
ESTIMfATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           .,      145.0/e
RURAL                                                                                                    1 82. 93 -  182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..           ..       59.0                 46.2
RURAL                                  ..           ..       65.0                 51.7                    33.2
. Not available
Not applicaDle.
NOTES
'a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic meaas.  Coverage of councries
-nortg tne indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unvoss othereise roted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for M..t Recent Estomate, between 1974 and 1978.
c 962;  *d Income recipients;  /e 1980.
lost recent esti.mate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



ANNEX I
-23-                                                                  Page 3of 5pages
DEFINITIONi OF SOCIAL INDICATORtS
Notjes:~ Al:1 f  thndat           rw   fo    ore    esrlylde  the ma  aItboniarive oodj relible,_it shouldalso be noted that they nay sllt be inter-
natioal    occleocacftn  ako   nadnia  dnl'tinioton   andcnepesd ..by .differet custiIe  LIn n_loiag  the data.  The data are ..nne-.
thelos, ,t  I1 no  eucott  ordai   ol ag-touda, taditate trendn,..ad ohueacarlae-  -tercal  njor differnces bste-ennnust.rict..
of th0e acIuco   anotfo   lpta    opc                      il ioyaat ", grop where "filddla Ioone fi-rh Africa and MIddle East" iteh.nen because of   rae
uncl-culin  al ufinclua  IctIc ctor-nno gOon  data the averges are popuIlaion seigbced  -r.hei   aefe  sbidctrad shun  nllysbena
1-aa  half f0 the ans    -ue      nao'u   has duta don that indiut.  S nc  the rover.i  of Itc....ies onEn  the lndtoas...    depends sn the -avIlability vf
duno ad iu uc aniops. catuvi oust bocooreised inrla-.ingaeae fseidctr  to anoher   Theu. aveage  are Iaty u-fuy  in cuepaning the value
of veidcatot a ta Inoas  thn ...uetny and refereace ges-pa.
tANl AREA  'ihousod sq.n-f                                                                     Ona in   o elPnena-npaitabaIedb                       .sme  ne peactionag phy-
Tn-u  - toca  -aftfaara  coup  1t-glad area and inlan-d enters,                                sinless qualified iron a  edioul -nh-l at uotveestty lvl
A -Inut raol -  uti-,t  of ugrln-lturl  aeea used temporarily or pe-maeotIy                   ouaincnBeigPrv   Pepuletlan dis,ided by number of pvscticing
duf  r0    arcu,oretaddtce    gadetr toIio  fallow; 1977 data,                              sale and feaale graduatenus, pneclot  ar-             s   Ied aasisr-tnus.
Ponlstenrepfsaitl  ad    ttal  uhsn  ad raral -Popalatiea( fital,
INP PERt PAPlT  ff51 - GNP  -r  capita eaclstea at n crret market price, cal-                    urban, and rura) divided by their reapeetive s-ber of hepits1 beds
ctlaedt  tun  c-_vni-t crotbo  as dock Bank Atlaa  (1977-79 bueta); 1960,                  ..oilable is public and peiv-te geseeal and speniali-ed hoepita1 and  en-
Elf. avl  1919 data.                                                   hah~~~~~~~.ilitatin   . otera.  fisepitale are ostablIshnast  penmanetly  taf ad
ELIRGI CN~111TTIII P~1 GOTTA   A-  .1     -1.1 ..rgy   ..l               by an. le.a..n phyel.i.-   fEntsbiishmatm  providing pisoipally  _atudisi
ElIfif COBAJBfPTIOI Pci CAPIA - Annua  cosuptioofterilnrg (ca                          care are net ino1aded.  Rural heepitaIs, b--ec, ino1ade health andmima
ca ir It,puona,          trlgnuan  hydo-  nu..a.r  .ed ge.thernl eI--                       . ceters sac pe setly stahffed byio phyiclis (hut by a medinalaesietent,
unciy   I.  togsn    f  of  qovlen   e  n pn;IO,I1970, anl Iuff                           nuse  mdwif, etn.  wio  offer  n-phtient  -caedatia  aed proid
data.                                                                  l~~~~~~~~~imited rasge ef  ed-los   co Ftes .eas.  isia    tpoepae  aeb_ heept-
POPIIIATIPI .1150yIIdl. IOAIITICShospitl  loam1 or  oral baspiala1  sd  eina  and -matrituy amea
y10LPc1.latloo,Oiid-'iap (niliuna) -As If Joly 1; 1960, 1970, and 1978           Adaisalun   Pee H.Ifoe .1a Bed - Tnnst na1  a  ofb adaissiaa no ar discharges
data.                                                                                        fl.n hospttala divided by she samber of beds.
Urban  u  lo    (errtu   oa)- Ratia of urban to total populatIon;
dIffarcut defun1ti-un  If nob- asarasny affect numpabsility of data                     HOUSING
onuiaere;1960, 1970, oud 1976 data.                                                     A-e... lies of noumhold(eus eetoard   -                      .tosla urhan. endessi
Poyslatioc Profecilnus                                                ~~A house.hold n-nisem. ofsgnpof Iidiiuash   har  livin   quarters
Populininalu yer00O   - Curreoc papulatios pnojnr-iutm  arm based Is 1980              saFhi        oe  el.Ahare   rlde  nay Ie ma rst ha innilded ia
toa    ooainby  ag.ad.e..d her   o taiy.and fetlyeara..                          the h ..sebeld fur etatistinal purposes.
Pnn)ecttu psroneara for   oniuhia   rae    npriaao   hc   eesaaa                vrs   ubroyrvsprss  Fsi    uban, and rural - dooregeu..
Fcte>   eo atir    .rus  also ban  Ithe  leel  asnuIn  dentlineto                         asouidpra
Pahcoir   sta  assbignet on  ofele ieonhnlon    rmotl                             Cen      ..antiaanal, dweligswih beeoe..t  in. liig.      ur.r.s         atg
aocorllat   trends lfur   ~.         biIliOth p.n..i.pspna.o  tnl,ubn,ad  aa  dallingr                                           npolep
huntiocaropnrulatio-Inanlatinory  pepuactpe theey1  D.eIgovaalllan
m"lno una-co -thisi      - is ach .ee.ol  after  feii p- ese danline te                 adutdielletRt
theceis   dien lve  uf uit- net. re.du.tia   ae   hnec ~fll   l.i genr le           rimary anbuo  - totl   saean         1ehl  -       tCostan1,  mtale sad  fmi
Ealhcote-0  the h..si.s     g   of ethe frtjhe.. osai-seistiatof tb  rrlatlos               piar   non-g  (ppatis;nelyinadahleaagdbI
itioya-        7f,adtert  of  eclne fyertlit  ste  o rplnt-yeas  un_dtue_  far difisrest lengths -tel pioy.                                            eaats   a
east level.                                                                                  ooLnteiee teb thiversah ldtnaioaleneellathn ma..emceed.1SfCpercen
Tear  cItln-ry  npThiin ia -eanhad -I Telay   when f-     iatiy scey  ppolatie    st areson  puil Halfblaupaoenefiilsa lae
aleo boa been macbed.                                               Secoedar~~Pri-y  school -  natal, male ad female - Ctapalted a  shone  seoeadar
Io   Ie s  ho        it~f    -Y.- i-erpplno   e  sqar bt-ilmetry  f 101 bciaras  of prnida g                       gel   natiarsa. or  tearhee   rai.a pisatesoten If ora  pupi
6dyat)  andy.    n000ired (65 yers  n oar)1-i  an  penare  of sidpea   pupa                   denlto asdeatnt orif.seaadt    iseinthIfpisned.                 ti.;f
laI_n  1960  190   e   90da                                                                  uu-ene   ai      ema.adsnnuy-Tnl uet   noldi
Crudailct tisre,. (per ainsnd -. Aaelh   liv. eabrths.pe  thussa..d at scPI.id-yihne-r                                        .         ..-                 ..    0.r-
CdelohBat   pea rhaad      ema   atsprthaedori-pe                                      esae Cas(e aoaa p               oPIt:1j eI-   atia).  tl Pases eeiarsoers   oa
popultina   1960  lOf0. so  190  data                                 nna  seaing  esa_ha   sigh   pe -s.as;annlade   enlnns  hearse  an.d.
moss rprodotlueiateAnaran  numer o  dasgteesaoaaewill  anead mil tar   ..ehiqalee.atl.,fI .r                            .p.ydp-y
bee  kotsa  reprdaotlv  parsedtit she eqsimosprsntseapoi ic .t    (0  h..r.               Radio_iaeeo  doer thousan ...           oav)-l  npsofrosvrafr  s
sii    an;  anl   Ieyererae   ada   s16,-9O   n   97                                       hc dITtssgrerl   .bi            .pe       hhuandtofpopuai.tion; i...lode   unli-3
PeiyPAnen      ca      ra, Anua   Chblusands 0-1 yasal nubra            atn                Elised reeier  In   nEieS  mad I  per  we             'agstiom  of titdia  e
of bircl-nuntal devicea uder anspiass  f nacienal fmily plannin   pe..e.   walnefn;dtafrrrs   ee  mynonr he comparable pinue ml.ast
P.m .    Ui  hld-theRatigae (I1- -44 yesrm -b ass..  S-hirbnenal.  dnvf         tot id-         pieneivmrs         d.l leervnasdeoolsdaa)d- by receiver Ifo b-troadcstha
allt nocie wf mes1in0a6  n  age-70  grd190ap  ..                                             gaea purb..tign     I pee tie 1med.1po ppslsti t; unldee     . aoinsadT'rael  e
"Id. Bi,th Rate (p-  th ..... d) - A ...aorer irnuatieI(pershossndtenulptrs)thBhow  theaveraedcicuit
prndncito   nf all0 food, cumd197ia  a. Prdaia   nlue   ed  a   ae   e                         insindntdpiaiyn   snfiggsrlnw.I  scniee
i Dtnr   Ralendar r thna  boom. -OA..dI idmnahm  priaryt .. goads (e.g ..larea                     C r"ail"ifi  appears at- ppleati) fea  limes. a. weak
patpsaaliarnag  prda960       nraweghs;191-7,190  utd 1970dtdata....aud moie sen...t-egtpr..-1d.-.  ...hr                                                                .
POrna.. tR auE    y of cAlrtee (perent If rdsuireanrs) -    iclpbtad inns.y-h.l
he--iyquvant of net fod eipf asanih.                l  inpri   P cutsnry if parrnit    ladi POtRh.Al                                                '  f"         r   f      -j
tiplnn.todoane   n  tc. B--         anerageppl.ig eucd  animal fe7 d, sed,                  amd 197ebdnnes andT unemptlePd batheala  ding bosanwl.ior   students  etc.-
F  oacdtly   ordin..    modytr,  ..1(h pr .r..ng  od.IasAs.. In iarbat Ifn....qtira-           ..  Befsioa inT vLnos  neenri.e   aed Lyeat. neaprabie; 1960, 197  sadi   .
Ifct  dsine  estimted            ...A pi.ed  If phyriootna  nnedy far. anemalat-.           lOIB dat.Ifft;dr           l -y. -y-bi--t
_iyuc   eat  osidnn   envirnb-nnalnumparnurb,hvd  wedights  age                           P-tmalo (raronani - fml   as   aea  pVao...tage of ota blahar. tac
and tooi. ditlsuao   uplra,adaligI   enn  farwasr agAgicutur.(prtet)h ..b.. fd                                                e   nfrig   aeny   otn    n
F  aOaOaD       ecor   rninfrn   a   ar       rti  cneto   e  iANita ITdITapN  (nerceni -.  leabr.   . f rns  in tnin.  cnti                             na,f  .  Lanuifonri
net sopply of fond  imtr doy.  esn     01~ apyo   edInl-dIfid an ,pite,  B-I       an  el nciny.  asterl sndl gasl Id Pperentagad adh tetllao  fvarna; lOb-
alnacof if grams af total prt al   endy  n  1   ras9faioa  and                     parIifac    ae(eet      oa,mI,an  feae-Ie islao
pulee P "oas,  fwIc  10 gras should,,bed anYmal.pentetn.  Tb mae stand-%
P"d"t"' IPrld..ti..                     .-d -d feel all               li~atitityreneatanopuedl  t an .tonal, male, oud tfemle labo   fread
ard  ur        yeartustur  ofi.   PTd gram  of tria potei  ad:  7 gra, f 'fa....   t,         b pnetde  oif nitl  mal  andfeal pf sainofalaenepcley
uinal.  I   .cgtlaa   anit sarge fedi the  wodnld,t pnpnse  by PA  in the  Ibi           'i-  196, .100  Antd 1975 dana   t.Tee an a           ...spattiptihnrttesrflnt
World..  fund Survey;1961-61, 1070 tau     191O5P       17O  data...                         ,d.bi.-i.
lut.faes  -A   h.nraiit ttanL.jpyritsueppdf  - Annual. d-unbl peerlhuasmd. is                Icth    nlbae       pfae
afmf-ttit-A  ratf. no nhlldrtnrin.thistage grasp  furInest de_e_eIiagdnose
crie  doa intue  icu  lie tolet  191, 170  nd 177  ata.TOCDSiiliti..iBf IOa               ..- ra7               l    - -l;16,t  
,hnfpcoc   t  it   yas    Anenge.   ntapen of yer    dy life tremaIige             F-prcnt   nioas 12 perbet  pfrlet 70 perc...t,g and poores A.  peenant
at tieI: 196, 107  andihi 1971-9g duna,                                                                                     .brf            6,  90  .d178d..
ofaer  pe   hsn        aa  inn                                          ipamrd bolt P i                           anaci  f-noe Leve  110$  ter utital  - urban  nd  ua 
pe _ectgi  of "  the -rrepaIfive  psoltionper dan us urba  area apuli                       iurerelation paverny-moans level -In.on-thid fci snrg  per napp.ita
foota- Inrno    hpu thlucnrednetnbr1dtsu  7sf menpraftua-hbua   maple                                              - petaaitmef dcaur.    Thnlvla   eiedrsbe
isall- huh tco   nsl-   toal  or5 n  sad rInf  f..    served by a1enretedfel,,l
vfItuu   aot rr         wsewtriire-ot   yim   or th  assPOithey190
ptu inn cira end susilar ;uassllaitcns. ~H--     f                                                  -         '_: PP""                           .  :f



A 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978 ja                    ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln    %          1960-65           1965-70           1971-78
GNP at Mfarket Prices           47,461  100.0          1.9                4.9               7.8
Gross Domestic Investment       10,022   21.1          3.3               11.5              14.7
Gross National Saving            9,233   19.5          5.8                5.1              12.0
Current Account Balance         -1,155   -2.4
Exports of Goods, NFS           10,278   21.7          1.5                7.8               8.9
Imports of Goods, liFS           9,144   19.3          0.2               10.9              17.9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added       Labor Force /b    V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln    %          Mln      %            US$      %
Agriculture                     11,624   31.1       35.3    62.6           329    49.7
Industry                        12,672   33.9        4.7      8.3        2,696   407.3
Services                        13,043   35.0       13.4    23.8           973   147.0
Unallocated                          -    -          3.0      5.3
Total/Average               37,339  100.0       56.4   100.0            662   100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
(Rp Billion)                              % of GDP
1977/78   1978/79                          1977    1978
Current Receipts                  3,535      4,266                         18.9    19.6
Current Expenditure               2.149      2.744                         11.5    12.6
Current Surplus                   1,386      1,522                          7.4      7.0
Capital Expenditures              2,157      2,556                         11.5    11.7
External Assistance (net)           738        987                          3.9      4.5
MONEY. CREDIT and PRICES
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977   1978
(Million Rp outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                    695      987   1,452   1,978   2,631   3,131  3,809
Bank Credit to Public Sector             129      153     209      990   1,051       883  1,442
Bank Credit to Private Sector            524      932   1,186   1,376   1,737   2,017  2,605
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP   15.2    14.6    13.5    15.6    17.0    16.7   17.5
General Price Index (1971 = 100)         106      139      196     234      280      311    336
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                      6.4    31.1    41.0    19.4    19.7    11.0    8.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector          -14.0    18.6    36.6   373.7         6.2   -16.0   63.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector          65.3    77.9    27.2    16.0    26.2    16.1   29.2
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
/a  Exchange rate of Rp 415 = US$1 up to November 14, 1978, Rp 625 = US$1, thereafter.
/b  Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
"Unallocated" consists mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
Not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
June 30, 1980



ANNEX I
- 2.5 -                                               Page 5 of 5 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                        1976    1977    1978         MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(Average 1976-78)          US$ Mln        x
1.  Exports:                             6,573   7,952   7,989
(a)  Oil and LNG (net)            3,710   4,445   4,010         Oil and LNG (net)               4,055      54.1
(b)  Nonoil                       2,863   3,507   3,979         Timber                            986      13.1
2.  Imports (incl. net NFS)             -6,657  -7,777  -8,129         Rubber                            653       8.7
(a)  Imports                     -6,167  -7,241  -7,543         Coffee                            488       6.5
(b)  NFS (net)                     -490    -536       586       Palm Oil                          190       2.5
3.  Resource balance                       -84      175    -140        Tin                               253       3.4
4.  Factor services                       -718    -865  -1,015         Manufactures                      261       3.5
(a)  Interest public debt /a    -314    -436    -499            All others                        619       8.2
(b)  Other (net)                   -404    -429    -516
5.  Balance on current account            -802    -690  -1,155               Total                    7,505    100.0
6.  Direct foreign investment              287      285      271
7.  Capital grants                         100      100      lo
8.  Public M & LT loan /a                                              EXTEiINAL DEBT - December 31, 1979
(a)  Disbursement                 2,334   1,955   1,627                                           Disbursed  Undisbursed  Total
(b)  Amortization                  -457    -825    -969                                           -------- US$ million ---=
(c)  Net disbursements            1,897   1,130       658
9.  Other capital (net)                   -481    -174       834       Total External Public Debt          13,086      5,811     18,897
10.  Change in reserves
(- increase)                     -1,001    -651    -708
11.  Net official reserves                1,557   2,208   2,916         DbiBT SERVICE RATIO                         1977    1978    1979
Reserves in months of imports + NFS         2.8      3.4      4.3       Public debt service as % of exports    15.9    18.4    15.3
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                        IBRD/IDA LENDING (November 30, 1980) (US$ million)
IBRD        IDA
August 1971 through November 14, 1978
Outstanding & Disbursed                       1,116.58    454.13
US$1.00  =  Rp 415                                                  Undisbursed                                   2,030.42    377.67
Rp 1,000 =  USS2.41                                                 Outstanding incl. Undisbursed                 3,147.00    931.80
Since November 1S, 1978
US$1.00  =  Rp 625
Rp 1,000 = US$1.60
/a Based on IBRD external debt data.
East Asia and Pacific Programs
January 16, 1981



ANNEX II
- 26 -                         Page 1 of 25 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A.  STATEMENT OF BANX LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of November 30, 1980)
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Seven Loans and twenty-seven Credits fully disbursed  417.00  432.43             -
259     1971   Tea                                                 15.00        0.35
300     1972   Population                                          13.20        1.47
319     1972   Fourth Agricultural Estates                         11.00        0.67
358     1973   North Sumatra Smallholder Development                5.00        0.80
387     1973   Third Educaition                                    13.50        3.61
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                   7.80        4.65
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                       16.50        9.02
451     1974   Fourth Technical Assistance                          5.00        1.22
479     1974   Bali Tourism                                        16.00        5.82
480     1974   Fisheries Credit                                     6.50        0.82
514     1975   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                      30.00       16.66
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development Project                40.00       11.32
827     1978   Rural Credit                                        30.00       26.94
869     1979   Polytechnic                   .                     49.00       47.62
898     1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                          10.00        9.66
919     1979   Transmigration II                                   67.00       63.49
946     1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                        12.00       11.65
984     1980   Smallholder Rubber Dev. Project                     45.00       44.62
995     1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                                45.00       45.00
996     1980   National Agriculture Extension II                   42.00       42.00
1014     1980   National Ag. Research Project                       30.00       30.00
1049     1975   Five Cities Water Supply                   14.50                 2.28
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                           65.00                30.84
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension          21.50                10.28
1197     1976   National Regource Survey & Mapping         13.00                 6.82
1236     1976   Fourth High4ay                            130.00                61.71
1237     1976   Fourth Education                           37.00                16.83
1250     1976   Second Ship?ing                            54.00                22.94



- 27 -                         ANNEX II
Page 2 of 25 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                        Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
1259    1976   Fifth Power                                 90.00             13.24
1267    1976   National Food Crops Extension              22.00               7.8&
1268    1976   Seventh Irrigation                         33.00              13.85
1318    1977   Transmigration and Rural Develpment    30.00                  13.88
1336    1977   Second Urban Development                   52.50              10.59
1337    1977   Tanjung Priok Port                          32.00             15.31
1363    1977   Second PDFCI                                15.00              2.80
1365    1977   Sixth Power                               116.00              43.64
1373    1977   Nutrition Development                       13.00             10.78
1433    1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education            19.00             15.38
1434    1977   Eighth Irrigation                          63.00              48.30
1435    1977   Ninth Irrigation                           35.00              20.59
1437    1977   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO III)  40.00                   4.09
1472    1977   Second Population                          24.50              17.27
1486    1978   Non-Formal Education                        15.00              9.75
1499    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I         65.00              47.03
1513    1978   Seventh Power                             109.00              91.44
S009    1978   Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Trp. Eng.   10.00                   0.16
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                          140.00             130.76
1579    1978   Eleventh Irrigation                        31.00              25.86
1604    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II    65.00                  62.90
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                         77.00              66.94
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                    54.00              50.42
1691    1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control          50.00              47.73
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training               42.00              40.40
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                             130.00             123.58
1703    1979   Fourth BAPINDO                             50.00              49.92
1707    1979   Transmigration II                          90.00              90.00
1708    1979   Eighth Power                              175.00             162.14
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                        36.00              34.96
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates and S'holders III          99.00              95.05
1811    1980   Fourteenth Irrigation                     116.00             116.00
1835    1980   Nucleus Estates and S'holders IV           42.00              41.44
1840    1980   Nat. Ag. Research Project                   35.00             35.00
1869    1980   Third Population Project                    35.00             35.00
1872    1980   Ninth Power Project                       253.00             245.18
1898    1981   S-holder Coconut Dev. Project              46.00              46.00
1904    1981   University Development Project /a          45.00              45.00
/a Not yet effective.



- 28 -                       ANNEX II
Page 3 of 25 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                        Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Total Bank loans and IDA credits              3,147.00  931.80
less cancellations                             -0.46   -1.47
Total                                         3,146.54  930.33
of which has been repaid                      -58.39   -1.23
Total now outstanding                         3,088.15  929.10
Amount sold to third party             28.24
Anount repaid by third party          -25.15      -3.09
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a             3,085.06  929.10
Total undisbursed                             2,030.42  377.67   2,408.09
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 25 pages
- 29 -
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of November 30, 1980)
Fiscal                                Type of             Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor                business            ---- (US$ million) ----
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement              10.6      2.5       13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                   Textiles             2.5      0.8        3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles                2.0      0.5        2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia          Cable                2.8      0.4        3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles            4.5       1.5        6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism                11.0         -      11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               5.4      0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles                2.0      0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan             Electronics          0.9         -       0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                    Devel. Fin. Co.        -      0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles             2.4      0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement               5.0       1.5       6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong           Cement                 -       1.1       1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             0.4         -        0.4
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                 Textiles             1.3      0.2        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                  Textiles             0.9         -       0.9
1980   P.T. Papan Sejahtera          Capital Market       4.0       1.2       5.2
1980   P.T. Indo American
Industries           Glass Dinnerware  11.1         0.9       12.0
1980   P.T. Semen Andalas            Cement and
Indonesia            Construction
Material           48.0       5.0       53.0
Total gross commitments                            114.8      17.7      132.5
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                 70.0       2.2       72.2
Total held by IFC                                   44.8      15.5       60.3
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)   29.1           6.0       35.1



ANNEX II
- 30 -                     Page 5 of 25 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
These nc:es are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (514, 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                              6-9
1579, 1645, 1691, 1811 and 995)
Other Agricultur.  Production (319, 358, 400, 480,                          9-12
1318, 1707/919, 1499, 1604, 1751,
1835, 984 and 1898)
Agriculture Supp,rt Services (1179, 1267, 996 and 1840/1014)               12-13
Rural Developmen  (946)                                                      13
Agro-Business and K'redit (785 and 827)                                        14
Education (387, 86', 1237, 1433, 1486, 1692 and 1904)                         14-17
Energy (1259, 1365. 1513, 1708 and 1872)                                      17-18
Industrial Develop ent and Finance
Fertilizer Produvtion (1254)                                                18
Industrial Estates (428)                                                    19
Development Fina:,ce Companies (1363, 1437 and 1703)                         19
Population and Nut ition
Population (300, 1472 and 1869)                                            19-20
Nutrition (1373)                                                            21
Technical Assistanze (451, 898 and 1197)                                      21-22
Transportation
Highways (1236 i'td 1696)                                                   22
Marine Transport (1250)                                                      23
Ports (1337)                                                                23
Tourism (479)                                                                  24
Urban Development (1336 and 1653)                                             24-25
Water Supply (1049 and 1709)                                                   25
/1 These notes ara designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of pr.jects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems whic. are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They sh:)uld be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not ptrport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in ,roject execution.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 25 pages
- 31 -
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 514  Jatiluhur IrriRation Extension:  $30 Million Credit of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date:  January 10, 1975;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1982
Initial organizational difficulties, extensive changes in the design
of project works and delays in awarding civil works contracts are expected to
substantially delay project completion. Consequently, the closing date of
December 31, 1980, has been postponed for two years to December 31, 1982.
All major contracts for civil works have been awarded. The total project
cost is currently estimated to be about 90% over the appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  $65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date: June 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is currently expectedJo be completed by March 1984,
about three years behind the original completion date. This is mainly due to
a delay of more than one year in the completion of bidding documents, followed
by a delay of another year due to delayed land acquisition, delayed payments
to contractors and the effects of the 1978 Rupiah devaluation. The total
project cost is currently estimated at $227 million, which is 38% above the
appraisal estimate. Disbursements are currently about 50% of the appraisal
estimate, but are expected to significantly increase in FY80/81. All major
contracts have been awarded and sufficient funds are allocated for the
programmed construction this year.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  $33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Construction is underway in the North Sadang and tertiary develop-
ment areas, and studies being funded under the project are expected to be
completed shortly. The mapping progam is progressing satisfactorily.
Disbursements are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  $63 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is being implemented satisfactorily, although disburse-
ments are currently about 80% behind the appraisal estimate largely due to



ANNEX II
-32 -                           Page 7 of 25 pages
delays in the Madiun rehabilitation and Ciujung drainage components, and
partly due to late payment to contractors. Disbursements are expected to
improve in succeeding semesters because of increased activity in these
components.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  $35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977; Effective
Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
After an initial slow start in the Sungai Dareh-Sitiung Irrigation
System, which is to provide new irrigation facilities to transmigrants and
local farmers over a 3,500 ha area, good progress is being made in awarding
all major contracts, including the construction of a pumping station. The
balance of the contracts are proposed to be awarded in FY80/81. When the
pumping station is completed and plant installed, water can be supplied to
part of the 3,500 ha area by December 1981, or at the latest by March 1982.
The Sedeku Irrigation Rehabilitation and Drainage System is proceeding without
the Iragung Dam being built. The Government decided not to construct major
dams in Java, including the Iragung. This has required a review of the
designs and a revision of cost estimates to be incorporated in continuing
contracts and future works, thus causing further delays. Ten projects are
included for feasibility studies: three appraised by the Bank in June 1979 and
one recommended for financing by KfW. Studies of the remaining seven projects
will be completed shortly. Because of the delays in project implementation,
the project is expected to be completed by March 1983, a delay of 21 months,
presuming no new constraints develop. It is expected the current closing date
of December 31, 1981 will have to be extended.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  $140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Delay in implementation of the project components is about 12
months. Some delays have occurred in awarding contracts and the construction
program will have to be accelerated to achieve the completion target. Pro-
gress of studies of dams and irrigation subprojects is behind schedule due
to the late awarding of contracts for aerial mapping for the Kali Progo, Way
Seputih and Way Sekampung areas. Progress on studies at Dumoga and Gumbasa
has been satisfactory. The staff of the PIBD, the Executive Body for Major
Irrigation Projects with World Bank Assistance, will have to be strengthened
in order to cope with the increased construction program from FY80/81 onwards.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  $31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Due to slow progress the project is currently estimated to be
completed in March 1983, a delay of about one year. The Hlydrologic
Measurement Program, after initial inaction on the consultants work program,
and delay of one year in procurement of equipment, is now progressing well and



ANNEX IT
- 33 -                     Page 8 of 25 pages
estimated to be completed by September 1982. Studies for a master plan for
the development of the Cimanuk River Basin were completed in January 1980 and
a final report is under preparation. Detailed designs of flood control works
of the Lower Cimanuk, Cipanas and Ciwaringin Rivers have been completed and
construction is proceeding under Loan 1691-IND. Due to unfavorable foundation
conditions at the dam site and GOI's decision not to construct large dams on
Java this component is indefinitely postponed and an alternative use of loan
funds is under consideration.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  $77 Mtillion Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
The Jatiluhur Tertiary Development on an area of 186,000 ha is
proceeding on schedule; construction on 50,866 ha has been completed and the
balance of the area would be covered in three fiscal years 80/81 to 82/83.
The Cisedane drainage works have not commenced due to a delay in the
acquisition of construction to FY81/82, except one contract programmed to be
awarded in FY80/81. Completion of this component of the project is currently
estimated to be delayed by over one year subject to right of-way acquisition
being completed early 1981.  Consultants  or studies of tidal swa   areas and
drainage blocks are engaged and expected to be completed by July 1981 with a
delay of six to eighteen months compared to appraisal estimates. The project
is currently estimated to be completed by March 1984, a delay of one year.
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  $51 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
Initial progress is satisfactory. Consultants have been engaged for
the construction supervision and studies provided under the project. The
construction of river training works and flood protection levees under six
on-going contracts is progressing well and on schedule. Land acquisition for
the rights-of-way is being handled with the assistance of private land
surveying companies which has significantly reduced the time to about six
months. No further difficulties are foreseen for this aspect of the project.
Loans No. 1811 Fourteenth Irrigation Project: $116 Million Loan of April 3,
1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1986
This loan was declared effective on July 3, 1980.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 25 pages
- 34 -
Credit No. 995 Fifteenth Irrigation Project: $45 Mlillion Credit of April 3,
1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: January 31, 1985
This credit was declared effective on July 3, 1980.
Other Agriculture Production Projects
Credit No. 319 Fourth Agricultural Estates: $11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The planting program under the project has been completed and the
construction of processing facilities should be completed by the middle of
1981. Production, profitability and costs of PNP X continue to be satisfac-
tory. PNP X has expanded its operations further under Loan 1499-IND
(NES I), and its work on planting rubber for smallholders under NES I and
under Loan 1318-IND (Transmigration I) is progressing well. Although there
are some temporary difficulties relating to completion of the palm oil mill
and rubber processing facilities, overall project performance remains very
satisfactory.
Credit No. 358 North Sumatra Smallholder Development: $5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The 9,000 ha planting program under the project is now completed.
Rubber and oil palm continue to show very satisfactory growth with the
1974/75 plantings of rubber and oil palm coming into production. Control of
weeding and general maintenance standards will require close supervision up
to 1982/83 when all plantings reach maturity.
Credit No. 400 Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: $7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The project provides credit through Bank Rakyat Indonesia and
extension advice through a Project Management Unit for improvement of
Indonesian smallholder and private estate tea. Of 13,200 ha, 60% was to be
rehabilitated and 40% replanted. Participants have preferred more costly
replanting and the target area has therefore been changed to 10,500 ha, and
the proportions reversed. While production will not be adversely affected
(replanting yields are higher), costs are estimated to exceed appraisal
estimates by about 60% because replanting is more expensive due to inflation.
The project has made a significant impact on the private sector of the
Indonesian tea industry. The project training program is especially
noteworthy having now involved more than 9,000 smallholders through practical
village training schemes.



ANNEX II
- 35 -                         Page 10 of 25 pages
Credit No. 480  Fisheries Credit:  $6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: January 8, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Initial delays have put the project about 18 months behind schedule.
The marine fishing complex at Ambon is completed, making a promising start
with twenty fishing boats operating, ten by GOI's skipjack tuna enterprise
and ten by a cooperative; two 100 gross ton catcher/carriers have been
ordered and are due to be delivered early 1981. The quality of fishpond
lending by Bank Rakyat Indonesia suffered early deficiencies, but is now
completed; results are patchy and arrears excessive in some areas. Coverage
is much less than appraisal forecast (31% of farmers, 60% of area) and details
not yet available, but inflation and the inability of smaller owners to
participate are probably the reasons.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  $30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Although the project is still about ei,hteen months behind
schedule eue to early slippage in implementation, since last year per-
formance has shown considerable improvement. To date about 2,760 families
have moved into Baturaja, equivalent to 61% of the ultimate target.  Construc-
tion of water supply reservoirs has accelerated and has reached 50% of target.
Contracts for construction of the last three villages have been signed; the
pasture development program is well established and cattle procurement has
restarted. The rubber planting is proceeding well and the cropping systems
trials are continuing satisfactorily. Funding is no longer a problem and dis-
bursements are in line with the revised schedule and have reached 51% of the
appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  $90 Million Loan and $67 Million Credit of
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
There have been delays in the implementation of the project. Land
clearing and road construction are now about six months behind appraisal
estimates due to: (i) the rejection of large areas identified for site
development in the appraisal report due to unsuitability for the agri-
cultural development proposed; (ii) weak overall project organization and
management; and (iii) delays in contractor-s and consultant-s engagement.
More recently, significant numbers of unauthorized settlers have been found
in areas presently identified for site development, and the GOI has proposed
some changes to design criteria for the large areas already prepared. These
matters are being reviewed with GOI but will likely take some time to resolve.
Consequently, completion of project works and settlement of families are now
expected to lag at least one year behind appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1499   Nucleus Estates and Smallholder I:  $65 Million Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 12, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project-s overall planting program is ahead of schedule in
PTP XI and in other estates almost on appraisal target. The conditions of the



ANNEX II
- 36 -                   Page 11 of 25 pages
plantations are good and preparations for the completion of the remaining
works well advanced. Construction of settler houses and roads is behind
schedule although less settlers are on the sites than targeted at appraisal.
In view of the recent amendments to the loan agreement, the managements of the
nucleus estates are now fully in command and speeding up the construction of
the houses for settlers. It is expected that the project will be completed
about the end of 1982 or one year later than expected. Disbursements are
below the appraisal estimate, but now acceleration is expected. The newly
established "Team Khusus" (Special Team) in the Directorate General of Estates
is of great assistance to the execution of the project.
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder II:  $65 Million Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Planting program is almost on schedule, but housing, roads and
village development is delayed. PTP IV management is undertaking the
acceleration of the civil works program. Tendering of main acess and primary
village roads is in process and works executed and supervised by Bina Marga
(Directorage General for Highway Construction) are expected to start early
1981. Upgrading of the Sungai Tiga Extension and Training Center is proceed-
ing expeditiously. The new management of PTP IV is endeavoring to accelerate
and improve project execution. Funds for executing the FY80/81 work program
are available in the approved budget. Preparation of the FY81/82 budget is
in process and its approval on time is expected.
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders III:  $99 Million
Loan of August 13, 1979; Effective Date: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project is off to a good start.  Reasonable progress has been
achieved in the estate development components, and preparations being made
to start implementation of the smallholder components this year should
result in the planting of about 5,000 ha of smallholder rubber and the
settlement of the first 600 participating settlers by March 1981.
Loan No. 1835   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders IV:  $99 Million
Loan of May 16, 1980: Effective Date: August 11, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This loan was declared effective on August 11, 1980.
Credit No. 984 Smallholder Rubber Development: $45 Million Credit
of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: May 23, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project has got off to a satisfactory start in spite of late
approval and release of the first year's budget.  There are no major problems
with the project at this stage and it is anticipated that about 75% of the



ANNEFX II
- 37 -                          Page 12 of 25 pages
first year's planting program will be achieved. Disbursements in FY81 are
expected to reach US$3 million equivalent.
Loan No. 1898   Smallholder Coconut Development Project:  $46 Million
LOaa of August 25, 1980; Effective Date: November 25, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
This loan has just been declared effective.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179   Agricultural Research and Extension I:  $21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Overall progress is acceptable. Under the Agency for Agricultural
Research and Development (AARD) civil works in Pangragajian have been
completed, in Mlargahayu are ahead of schedule, in Baruajak (all highland
vegetables) have been completed (slightly behind schedule), while in Sungei
Putih, Sembawa (both rubber) and in Sukamandi (Phase I rice and paliwija
crops) are behind schedule due to shortage of labor and difficulties in
procurement. Tenders for Sukamandi Phase II have been issued and contracts
have been awarded for field and workshop equipment, furniture and vehicles.
Tenders for laboratory equipment and chemicals for Margahayu are expected to
be issued shortly. In addition to 60 long-term fellowships abroad, 247 long-
term domestic fellowships have been arranged. Under the Agency for Agricul-
tural Education, Training and Extension (AAETE) most of the equipment,
furniture and vehicles have been received and distributed to ten completed
agricultural information centers (AICs). Extension materials are being
produced and distributed from the AICs. Disbursements under the project are
improving.
Loan No. 1267   National Food Crops Extension; $22 Million Loan of
June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project management unit has been strengthened by creation of
new positions which brings the number of assistant directors to five,
divisional chiefs to four and section heads to eight. Due to a dearth of
suitable senior staff, one assistant director, two divisional chiefs and four
section heads are working on a part-time basis. Vacancies in the posts of
field extension workers (PPL) and subject matter specialists (PPS) in the
Other Islands are proposed to be filled up by recruiting PPLs from Java and by
upgrading suitable PPLs for appointment as PPSs. Construction of 165 new
Rural Extension Centers (RECs) and renovation of 52 RECs out of a total of 645
for 13 provinces have been completed. Progress of civil works has suffered
due to an initial delay in prefinancing, inflation and inadequate supervision.
Most of these problems have largely been overcome and all remaining contracts



ANNEX II
- 38 -                       Page 13 of 25 pages
are expected to be awarded by end-1980. Procurement of vehicles, equipment
and furniture as well as in-service and overseas training are progressing
satisfactorily.
Credit No. 996 Second National Agricultural Extension: $24 Million
Credit of April 3, 1980; Effective Date: July 3, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
The project is the second phase of a national program for strength-
ening agricultural extension services in Indonesia. The project would cover
26 provinces of Indonesia, proceeding on a phased basis to expand the food
crops extension services to the 13 provinces excluded from the first phase,
to introduce: (a) a unified extension service for transmigration areas; and
(b) extension of technical recommendations covering smallholder estate crops,
livestock, inland fisheries and soil conservation activities into the
extension program developed heretofore for food crops. An implementation
schedule for five years has been prepared. Standard bid documents for civil
works and procurement are in the process of finalization.
Loan No. 1840   National Agricultural Research:  $35 Million Loan and $30
(Cr. No. 1040)  Million Credit of May 16, 1980;  Effective Date:  July 16,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1990
The project is the second phase in the strengthening of the overall
institutional framework of the Agency for Agricultural Research and Develop-
ment for agricultural research in fruits, lowland vegetables, livestock,
fisheries, forestry, estate crops other than rubber and industrial crops. The
Project Implementation Unit has been strengthened by appointment of four
heads of the offices but one head of office and the project secretary are
yet to be appointed. A Ministerial decree announcing the appointments of
directors for the Central Research Institutes and Research Institutes and
Centers already approved by the Minister of Agriculture, is expected to be
published shortly. Implementation schedules for the next nine years have been
prepared. Standard bid documents for civil works and procurement have been
finalized. Tender documents for civil works in six location for which
provision has been made in the budget of 80/81 are in the final stage of
preparation and tenders are expected to be issued shortly.
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: $12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Implementation of this project is behind schedule. The principal
reasons for delays are (i) the late release of project funds, and (ii) the
lack of appropriate salary scales conforming with government regulations.



ANNEX II
- 39 -                      Page 14 of 25 pages
These factors have resulted in low morale of project staff and distrust on the
part of some farmers. Disbursement conditions have not yet been met due to
part-time rather than full-time project positions.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: $40 Million Credit
of April 7, 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project, which provides financial and technical assistance to
strengthen Bank Indonesia's (BI) small credit programs, KIK/KMKP, became
effective August 17, 1978. Despite start-up difficulties, BI has now
established and staffed all project management units. The three field units
in Central Java, East Java, and West Sumatra are developing new lending
approaches and assisting handling banks in project promotion and preparation.
The training and studies components of the project are progressing satis-
factorily.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: $30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: Nlovember 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical assis-
tance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, training,
credit procedures and accounting and management information systems. Due
primarily to delays in obtaining project consultancy, the project is about
nine months behind schedule.
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387 Third Education: $13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
This first textbook project is an ambitious undertaking under diffi-
cult circumstances. Since the start five years ago, over 150 million books
have been printed, 120% of the appraisal target, and about 430,000 teachers
have been upgraded, or 23% over the original target of 350,000. About 100
million books have been distributed to scqhools.  Delivery of books takes
about one month to a year depending on the location of schools. The Project
Implementing Unit advises that the reoa_ining 50 million textbooks (grades 5
and 6) are expected to be printed and delivered before the present closing
date. Project costs have increased due to the increased scope of the project
and inflation since 1973.



ANNEX II
- 40 -                     Page 15 of 25 pages
Credit No. 869 Polytechnic: $49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date: May 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project objectives are to establish a new system for training
engineering technicians, to improve the quality of accountancy training and
practices and to assist in strengthening education planning and management.
The project would establish a Technician Education Development Center
(TEDC), six polytechnics and four accountancy development centers and
include technical assistance and associated studies. The engineering
technicians (polytechnic) component is making good progress. Staff appoint-
ments follow the appraisal schedule. Site grading for the TEDC and the
Bandung polytechnic (PT) has been completed. Construction of the TEDC and
the six polytechnics has started. Equipment for the TEDC has been awarded.
The expert services and fellowship program are progressing satisfactorily.
The accountancy component after initial delays is now making good progress.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  $37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The three subprojects under the Ministry of Education (MOE),
Ministry of Manpower (MOM) and National Institute of Administration (LAN),
are to provide buildings, furniture, equipment and technical assistance
respectively for four Technical Training Centers (TTCs) and two Faculties of
Technology in Teacher Training Colleges (FKTs) for MOE; 17 new Vocational
Training Centers and 25 mobile training units for MOM; and the principal
civil service training institute in Indonesia (LAN). The Project suffered
initial delays due to slow site acquisiton and late contracting agencies.
Additional delays due to slow awarding of contracts for physical facilities,
late release of budget funds, late ministrial approval and slow settlement of
contractors' claims to adjust contract prices for the 1978 Rupiah devaluation:
all these reflect limited management capacity. As of now, the MOE component
is nearly completed; all but one TTC are in operation and about $11 million of
equipment (93%) has been contracted. The MOM component has progressed slowly,
resulting in a 2-year delay. About 60% of civil works have been contracted
and 31% of equipment has been awarded. The LAN's civil works are only 20%
complete, and estimated to be completed by mid-1981, two and a half years
behind the appraisal estimate. Procurement of furniture and equipment follow
the civil works schedule. The technical assistance program for all project
components is being satisfactorily completed. Loan disbursement has improved
significantly in the last six months but overall delays required a
postponement of the closing date by two years to December 31, 1982.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  $19 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project is now progressing satisfactorily. About 35% of civil
works have been awarded and 30% completed. Corresponding percentages for



&  sqi' "-  | i.
Page 16 of 25 pages
- 41 -
equipment are 40 and 28.  Five more civil works c.jntracts are being awarced
during July 1980, and the remaining six sites are being acquired. The staff
training program is on schedule and development of new curricula and instruc-
tional materials is progressing satisfactorily. Special seminars and courses
for administrators have been conducted and 60 members of the national team
of 150 educators have been appointed as disseminators to overcome slow adjust-
ment at the institutional level to new curricula and teacher training methods
developed under the project. The technical assistance program is on schedule
and successful. Despite earlier delays and low disbursements (35% of
appraisal estimate), the project is expected to be completed on schedule.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  $15 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the Department of Education's
nonformal education programs in seven provinces. Financing would cover civil
works to renovate two existing and establish four new provincial centers,
instructional equipment and vehicles, in-service training, materials
development, a basic learning fund, and related technical assistance. Of
the six Balai PENM4AS (directorates for out-of-school education) centers, four
have been completed. The extension to the existing Jakarta center is 50%
completed and the Samarang center is 10% completed; both centers will be ready
by the end of 1980. All furniture and equipment have been ordered; 10% is
already on site and the rest is due to arrive later this year. About 80% of
the staff training program is meeting appraisal targets, production and
distribution of pretested learning materials have started, and 1,500 learning
funds are being distributed to selected learning groups. The technical
assistance program is on schedule; local staff are gradually replacing foreign
consultants. Disbursements will increase substantially this year and are
expected to reach $4.5 million or 72% of appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  $42 Million Loan of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of GOI's long-term strategy
to improve the quality and supply of middle level agricultural manpower. It
finances the renovation, furnishing and equipping, expansion and relocation of
26 existing agricultural development schools and 16 existing agricultural
in-service training centers; and the construction and furnishing and equipping
of 5 agricultural development schools and 7 agricultural in-service training
centers. It also provides technical assistance for the improvement of
curricula, education planning and evaluation. Physical implementation is
generally on schedule. A number of problems affecting educational aspects are
emerging; action is being taken to prevent them impeding project progress.
The fully staffed Project Implementation Unit is operating effectively.



ANNEX II
- 42 -                     Page 17 of 25 pages
Loan No. 1904   University Development Project:  $45 Million Loan of
November 13, 1980; Effective Date: Not Yet Effective;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Loan has not yet been declared effective.
ENERGY
Loan No. 1259   Fifth Power:  $90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
Disbursements on this project have been somewhat slower than anti-
cipated due to delays in placing orders for the third lot of equipment.
These orders have now been placed and on the basis of contracted deliveries,
the situation is expected to improve. Physical progress has been
satisfactory on extension of the 20 kV distribution lines, but very slow on
the installation of the 20 kV stepdown cubicles. Delay is due to
difficulties in acquisition of substation sites. The closing date has just
been postponed from March 31, 1981 to December 31, 1981 in order that
disbursements can be completed.
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  $116 Million Loan of February 4, 1977;
Effective Date: June 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
Construction of the fourth and fifth generating sets (200 MW each)
has been delayed. The fourth generating set is expected to be in commercial
operation around May 1981, about 9 months later than the contract date, but
only 3 months later than forecast at appraisal. Engineering of the Semarang 3
(Seventh Power) project and of the Java Interconnected system has been
completed.
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  $109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
All contracts have been awarded at highly competitive costs with
a substantial reduction in foreign costs and, therefore, $15 million of the
loan has been cancelled. Delays in award of contracts for civil works
caused by introduction of new procedures for such contract awards by GOI
have resulted in a three-month delay in the construction program. This will
delay commissioning of the 200 MW generating set which is now expected in
August 1982.



ANNEX II
- 43 -                     Page 18 of 25 pages
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  $175 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: November 5, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Contracts for turbine generators, ancillary plants, piling work,
and civil construction have all been signed. Bid documents for steelworks
and cladding were issued in August and are being evaluated. The tender
documents for marine works have been delayed due to a change in the design
concept. The revision in the scope of the marine works will increase
original appraisal estimates and final cost estimates are being worked out.
Schedules are being revised in order to minimize delays. It is expected
that the overall delay in the commissioning date for the first unit will be
about three months. No delay is expected in the scheduled commissioning
date of the second unit.
Loan No. 1872   Ninth Power:  $253 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date:  October 24, 1980;  Closing Date:
September 30, 1985
This loan has only recently been declared effective. Tenders for
EHV lines and substations were issued in July 1980; bid opening scheduled
for November/December, 1980. The issue of the documents was about ten
weeks behind schedule. Aerial survey has been completed. Profiling and
tower spotting in the field have commenced. Land for substations at
Suralaya, Ungaran and Gandul substations has been purchased. No delay is
expected in the land acquisition for the other substation at Bandung and
tower locations. Design and specifications for the Java control center are
being finalized.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Fertilizer Production
Loan No. 1254   Third Fertilizer Expansion:  $70 Million Loan of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: August 15, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The project (PUSRI IV) was commissioned on November 26, 1977,
about four months ahead of schedule. During 1978, PUSRI IV produced nearly
470,000 tons of urea, reflecting a capacity utilization of 83% in the first
year of operation. Some auxiliary facilities are planned to be expanded in
1980. The project is not expected to show a cost overrun. The closing date
of this loan has just been postponed by six months to June 30, 1981, in
order that procurement under an existing contract can be completed.



ANNEX II
Page 19 of 25 pages
- 44 -
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: $16.5 Million Credit of
September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate is now scheduled for completion
in 1982. Of 400 ha of raw land now earmaked for acquisition, 331 ha had
been purchased as of early 1979. 127 ha of the 270 ha of developed land
reserved for factory use has been sold to 107 firms, with full capacity
employment estimated at around 22,000. Slack sales and difficulties in
land acquisition have reduced the amount of land planned for sale from 337 ha
to 270 ha. Operations are profitable with a cash surplus and bank deposits
of Rp 2,389 million over the past three years to the project owners, the
Municipal Government of Jakarta and the Government of Indonesia. GOI has
agreed to designate 22.5 ha of the Pulo Gadung industrial estate as an Export
Processing Zone (EPZ) with PT JIEP as the sole administrator.  The closing
date of the credit was therefore postponed by two years to December 31, 1982
and the EPZ is expected to be completed within this period.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI:  $15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effective Date: April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1437   Third BAPINDO:  $40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
The project is being implemented satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  $50 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
This project is being implemented satisfactorily.
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Credit No. 300 Population: $13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: November 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The performance of the Indonesian national family planning program
continues to show satisfactory results. Since 1972/73 the program targets



ANNEX II
- 45 -                       Page 20 of 25 pages
have been fully achieved and, in some cases, exceeded. The implementation of
the project is in its final stages. The construction of all buildings has
been completed and furniture and equipment procured, offices in Jakarta and
six provinces have been occupied and all provincial and subprovincial training
centers and nine nurse/midwife training schools are in operation. Most of the
population education activities have been completed and the remainder are
expected to be completed this year. The production of films and procurement
of a computer financed out of savings under this project is expected to be
completed in 1981. Because of delays in the signing of the computer
contract and in order to allow sufficient time for its purchase, install-
ation and subsequent disbursement, it is now clear that final disbursements
will not be completed until about mid-December 1981. The Closing Date has
therefore been postponed until December 31, 1981.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population:  S24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date: August 4, 1Q77; Closing Date: April 30,
1983
The implementation of the second population project is proceeding
satisfactorilv. The construction of all buildings has been completed.
The major issues outstanding are (a) expediting the implementation of the
contraceptive raw materials study, (b) implementation of the community
incentive scheme, and (c) acceleration of the rate of disbursement.
Regarding the contraceptive raw materials study, the mission was assured
that all obstacles will be overcome and progress should be faster in the
coming months. The community incentive scheme has been redesigned and the
National Family Planning Coordinating Board (BKKBN) undertook to prepare
an operational plan for review. This is expected shortly and we expect
implementation to start on schedule early 1981. Progress on these aspects,
coupled with timely submission of withdrawal applications, should
contribute to the acceleration of the rate of disbursement. The BKKBN is
also reviewing the costs of the project in order to determine the extent of
savings. We expect to receive the revised costs as well as proposals for
utilization of project savings, if any, shortly.
Loan No. 169   Third Population:  S35 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Effective Date: September 10, 1Q80; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
This loan was declared effective on September 10, 1980 and a
smooth start to project implementation has begun. A Ministerial Decree
establishing a steering committee and appointing a project coordinator has
been signed. Civil works constitute the largest component of this project
and considerable attention is being given to this component so that delays
will not occur; the mission recommended that the staff entrusted with the
handling of this project be brought to at least the strength of that
provided for the second project (Loan 1472-IND).



ANNEX II
- 46 -                     page 21 of 25 pages
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  $13.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1977; Effective Date: March 31, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982
As a result of recently strengthened management, the pace of
implementation is beginning to pick up in most components. The new
campuses of the Food Technology Development Center (FTDC) and the Center
for Research and Development in Nutrition (CRDN) were completed and
formally opened in December 1980. Consultants and equipment for these
centers are arriving, but further FTDC procurement has been held up due to
procedural complications in the Ministry of Education. New staff posts have
been created and fellowships awarded, although both at a slower rate than
foreseen at appraisal. Research projects are underway, but for CRDN a long-
term research program remains to be formulated. Field activities of the
Nutrition Intervention Pilot Project (NIPP) are underway in some 90
villages, but operations are hampered by lack of special equipment.
Evaluations of NIPP process and impact are planned for late 1980. Their
results will largely determine the extent of NIPP modification needed and
the scope for (and pace of) NIPP expansion given the Government's current
commitment for a massive extension of a simpler community nutrition program
delivered through the National Family Planning Coordinating Board (BKKBN)
and the Ministries of Health, Religion and Agriculture to cover 41,000
villages by early 1984 awith assistance from UNICEF and USAID. Anemia
Control activities in plantations in East Java, North Sumatra and South
Sulawesi are progressing as scheduled, and productivity resurveys are
planned for September/October 1980. The home and village garden program
exceeded the target coverage (by 72) of 108 villages, and will be expanded
on the basis of a master plan currently under preparation. Nutrition
communication materials are ready for reproduction and distribution; their
effectiveness will be evaluated in mid-1981. Considerable savings are
expected under the project; the Government has prepared a package of
proposals in line with existing component objectives and activities. These
proposals will be reviewed during the next mission.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: $5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Progress under the project is satisfactory.
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: $10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Progress under this project is satisfactory.



ANNEX II
- 47 -                       Page 22 of 25 pages
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  $13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The National Coordinating Agency for Surveys and Mapping
(BAKOSURTANAL) complex at Cibinong is completed, and most of the cartographic,
photographic processing, and printing equipment required to produce maps is
installed. Resource evaluation activities, including the compilation of data
for Southern Sumatra and a study for the Directorate-General of Estates of
coconut lands to be replanted in Sulawesi and Lombok, are also proceeding in
the new complex. Recruitment and training of new staff, particularly junior
operatives, has accelerated. The new photography financed under the
parallel Canadian project will shortly be available, by which time
BAKOSURTANAL hopes to have installed color photo processing equipment and to
have fully trained specialized teams of operatives in the various map
production fields.
TRANSPORTATION
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  $130 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
All key activities in the implementation schedule agreed with the
Government are completed but with delays of about one year. Construction of
1,200 km are under way and the equivalent of 520 km were completed at the
end of 1979. Some problems and delays in executing roads prevailed for
contracts started in 1976; delays were also enqountered in awards of contracts
scheduled for 1977. The 1978 devaluation also contributed to a slower
apparent rate of disbursement as cost adjustments to Rupiah construction
contracts are still in process. Remedial measures were taken in 1978/7q (and
others are planned) which have much improved the rate of physical progress,
particularly for a few contracts where performance was very slow; however,
project completion is still forecast at about 18 months beyond the loan's
present closing date. W4hile project costs in US$ are likely to be within
appraisal estimates, Rupiah costs are up significantly due to the devaluation:
local funds are available to finance these increases. The above delays
have postponed overall completion of the project by two years and the closing
date has just been postponed to December 31, 1982 to allow for completion
of the project.
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  $130 Mtillion Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: August 28, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Delays have been encountered in awarding contracts for about
500 km of road works which were tendered in mid-1979, somewhat behind the



ANNEX II
Page 23 of 25 pages
- 48 -
implementation schedule. The 300 km balance of road works was scheduled
for tendering in May 1980, nearly 10 months behind the schedule. Preparation
of development programs for eight provincial public works departments (DPUPs)
has also fallen behind, and other project components closely linked to, or
forming integral parts of, the DPUP programs, such as procurement of road
maintenance equipment and construction of major support works, are now about
one year behind schedule. Delays have occurred also in appointing consul-
tants, but these delays are less serious.
Marine Transport
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  $54 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project is part of the first phase of the Government's Inter-
Island Fleet Development Program and is designed to modernize, expand and
improve the efficiency of the inter-island fleet. Demand for general cargo
ships in the Regular Liner Service (RLS) expected at appraisal was slow in
materializing due to (i) slow scrapping of obsolete ships with consequent
reduced replacement demand; and (ii) effects of the rupiah devaluation on
the price of replacement ships. Conditions considerably improved in 1979
and 80% of the loan has now been committed. The project entity, P.T. PANN,
is reasonably well managed; the operation and maintenance of its ships is
being regularly monitored and no major financial problems exist in its
Bank-financed operations. P.T. PELNI, the state-owned shipping line,
accounting for about half of the RLS, continues to incur substantial losses.
A condition of a recent subloan from P.T. PANN requires the early preparation
by P.T. PANN of a financial recovery plan with consultancy assistance. The
loan is expected to be fully committed by March 31, 1981, and the Closing Date
has just been extended by one year to December 31, 1981.
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port Project:  $32 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Slow progress on the construction of Government-financed works has
delayed construction of the first component, but progress is being made. The
Government-financed works in Basin III, delayed due to the impact of the 1978
Rupiah devaluation, are 98% completed, and the Basin III civil works finance
by the Bank loan, also delayed due to the devaluation, are 65% completed.
Civil works financed by the Bank loan in the Regional Harbor, are 37%
completed. The work is now three months in arrears and a revised construction
schedule is being prepared. These delays will probably postpone overall



ANNL.( II
- 49                       Page 24 of 25 pages
completion of the project to mid-1981 but it is too cir y to estimate tie full
effect of delays on project cost.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: $16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
With the exception of the amenity core and the telephone network,
infrastructure at Nusa Dua is complete. The hotel school and the practice
hotel are operating. Final designs for village improvements in Bualu and for
the new road from Bualu to Benoa are finished. The access road to Nusa Dua
from the airport is finished and the Denpasar by-pass road is scheduled for
completion shortly. The market for tourism to Bali has held up well in 1980;
hotel occupancy in international standard hotels exceeds 75%. The final
designs and tender documents for the first hotel at Nusa Dua to be built by
the national airline (Garuda) are complete, and construction is scheduled to
start shortly. The Bali Tourism Development Board (BTDB) is evaluating
additional minor infrastructure investments at Nusa Dua and possible
participation in several hotel projects to utilize the uncommitted portion of
the Credit.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  $52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project consists of provision of basic infrastructural
facilities including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste
disposal to about 3,000 ha of densely populated areas in Jakarta and 374 ha
in Surabaya. Community health workers are to be trained under a pilot
program in both cities. Except for small carryover items (filter plant,
deep wells and health clinics) and the conduct of a proposed urban
transport study for Jakarta under the technical assistance component, the
project progress is essentially complete. Upgrading costs for the program
have been within the appraisal estimates. About 3,435 ha of kampungs in
Jakarta and 441 ha of kampungs in Surabaya have been covered so far,
benefitting a total population of about 1.4 million. About 180 community
health workers in Jakarta and 88 in Surabaya have been trained and are
working in the improved kampungs.
Loan No. 1653   Third Urban Development:  $54 Million Loan of January 31,
1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project provides basic infrastructural facilities including
roads, footpaths, water supply, and sanitation to impoverished, low-income
kampungs (neighborhoods) in the cities of Jakarta (750 ha), Surabaya (580 ha)
Ujung Pandang (375 ha), Semerang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha), benefitting



ANNEX II
Page 25 of 25 pages
- 50 -
a total population of about 2.25 million. A comprehensive solid waste
management program is also included in Jakarta and Surabaya, together with a
drainage program in Surabaya. About 775 community health workers are to be
trained in the above two cities to work in the improved kampungs. The loan
became effective on September 26, 1979. The kampung improvement is
proceeding satisfactorily in Jakarta and Surabaya but start-up delays of
eight to ten months had been evidenced in the implementation of solid waste
management and drainage programs. In the secondary cities, the kampung
improvement program is now proceeding smoothly following a six to eight
months start-up delay during the first year implementation period (April 1,
1979-March 31, 1980).
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049   Five Cities Water Supply:  $14.5 Million Loan
of October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is now
running 24 months behind schedule and the Closing Date has been extended by
eighteen months. All equipment supply and all major civil works contracts,
with the exception of pipe laying contracts (delayed because of slow
procurement of pipe), are under execution. A cost overrun of about 30%,
caused by increases in local costs due to project delays and devaluation, is
expected. The reorganization of the Directorate of Sanitary Engineering has
been completed, and the establishment and development of local water
enterprises is proceeding satisfactorily. Also, disbursements are expected to
accelerate now that contracts are signed and equipment and supplies are being
delivered.
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  $36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
This loan was declared effective on February 29, 1980, five months
behind schedule. The main project is about six months behind schedule.
Design work is proceeding and procurement documents are being processed.
Tenders were called for an initial purchase of pipe and fittings and these
were opened in June 1980. Some other scheduled tenders may have to be
postponed because the Directorate of Sanitary Engineering (DSE) failed
to request sufficient government funds in the current fiscal year ending
March 31, 1981. DSE is exploring an alternative funding source to
circumvent this problem. DSE is overextended because of the extensive
water supply activity in Indonesia and the numerous aid offers and foreign
participation in the sector. It is at present in the process of increasing
its staff by 160 persons and also recruiting the services of a Resident
Management Specialist. It is to be hoped these two steps may help improve
its internal efficiency.



- 51 -
ANNEX III
INDONESIA
TENTH POWER PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetables of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project   : 3 years
(b)  Project prepared by                      New Japan Engineering
Consultants (Newjec)
(c)  First presented to the Bank              March 1978
(d)  Departure of the Appraisal Mlission    August 1980
(e)  Completion of Negotiations               January 1981
(f)  Planned Effectiveness                    April 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
GOI will:
(a) assist PLN in improving its market surveys to establish future
power demand by providing data on energy resources and policy
guidelines (para. 37).
PLN will:
(b) improve the capability of its power market survey units (para. 37);
(c)  improve the capability of its central system planning unit at
headquarters to identify emerging system bottlenecks in advance
and to ensure that its power systems continue to be adequate as
demand escalates (para. 38); and
(d) before completion of the project, prepare a program of periodic
inspection and maintenance of the project works which is satisfac-
tory to the Bank, and implement it throughout the operational period
of the project (para. 54).






IBRD 12453 R
A-11                                                                                                                                    Zro                                                               I NI?ONES
PHILtP t                              PUBLIC GENERATING  FACILITIES BY AREAS
Ci5v                   RUNE
_tA
r                                                                                                                                                                                                                               W "A-
21'11
T-Al -1
A
PA             p a c                    0  c e  a  4
K  A   L  I  A+I'A   N   T  A  N
4,66f 6       v        /- -/                                            7 ,                         II    ,        y   <-- -II  /-_                                  :  i -
f-                                                                                             I/      - )                    12
v                                                                       IL
Vil -/v    W,4" S1.4
b                                                                                                                                   osi
L) M A T RA                 a
Z.,   N                                                                                                                      LAWEV                        it
fAk
'IRIAN JArA
IV                                                                                                                                                                                    -E-0.1
A
kbO,,g .                               v                                    .4 Pdbd.I,q
B a       0         5v 0
J A V A
iob     201,    300    :400
MILES
K
19I,  2qu  jqo  .90  5yo  60    go  tw
O'CIMET",






IBRD 12435R5
W8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~112,                                                                                                                                         DECEMBEFI 1980
SLJMA TRA                 Oa~~~~~a8p,          4WmW;e,4ff.xd~~~~~. fe~~  ~~nnse,Ience ~~TENTH: POWQ ER,"  PROJECT
~~pOen    ~Apfr4da1/0,. ~'~tn.~   l~?5YdOn.~n.50I04 J                                         -  POWER    SYS EM 
PROJECT AREA                                                      MAJOR POWER PLANTS AN!0MAiN TRAN4SMISSON:LINES
Band.n          STAPOWES  SUSAIN                 RANML%gt~ON LtNES                                                        0
_____    NEft CON$JTRUCT,QNIjCOMMITTFDY'FOR
Jatiluhur                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SAOVLING  H"DROELECTRIC  PROJECT
Dago ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ WIrtA'.'~LkAH ORb4sT'RiBuSt HEADCKUARTERS
Tangerang                                                                                                                                                                                  Karangkates~~Badu    9 
Caveang           ~WST  A    AVA                moEang.                                                                                          Blora
(X                              SH~~~~~~~~~aru
C;  ~     ~      Weer            TasSemaraya                     Pumoke                                                                  40       eo      so
Cibinong  Jo   al 0~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aeln                                                         l
Ungaran                                                                    0                                     199~~~~~~~~~Blb  Kia-                             Z
Jalok                       1100                                                      S                                                        .1140~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M..1  Mjo,






T isap has be- orelpr-d by ht                                 Id                                                             INDONESIA
World S-nIo stVff lsia for         -S
the toei,toof Ott read-r oI
the report to whi it iat hd
hdsdari-tishows -d ti i a                                                                                        SAGULING  POWER  PROJECT
World Asok -ad ito  isfhite. ay                         Y                 SPLNProyt                              GENERAL   SITE  ARRANGEMENT
asp YCtoritr or soyc esearsoomtaot1  
or assotsef 00 _da-                                                                    -                         PLN PROJECT OFFICE
OFFICE, CAMP AND INSTALATION AREA
-      PERMANENTSTRUCTURE
CONSTRUCTION ROADS
i-- - -.                                                                         _    0            QUARRY, BORROW PIT AND SPOIL AREA
VA  ~~~~~~~  r ~~~~TRANSMISSION LINE POR CONSTRUCTION
-TUNNEL
,05   _i _                             h4, ,      (y r uL60                                
Ai 1'1 tesp/                   sdstcrS O N $r ,i?  -   EXISTING ROAD
S~~~~~r                                                                               \ ; L0'  ; T, pihlrort./_8iRIVERS
A                          --/hd~~~~~- ~CONTOURS
g~~~~~~~~~f                               harhp P/-    5  anthif---
: , A s? . - A~~~~~~~KILOMETERS,  
rtr,> g I . : i | (>. \ ---- E o\;t ',}/MILES
S\\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~to dr
<            X                X             k t~~~' P, K
->~~~~~P Ecirars   2fc _                                I g    QXr?    (
RD  J /  il_ --1'' \ 0 f g FC z ' op t :~~~~\-                                550
S   ,,. i                                _ 'ix TLs)                            >r       X    r ,1
1/.        v ~ />telyvfnYy lpmity\\\    _        o    /              >   { r/\ /
J<oraos * O _;   -.   Cnar/ningPlmt irSio,rf   f                            \   (6
Z,;o
-_ _  ~  r 2  ''    / 9 S ;-  /   St   ' j  (   t gg=       ~       ()   )                            <  D
OulrySe    ,                g        \o            _.' tzX    



