RESTRICTED
v    CIRCULATING COPY              Report No. P- 1093
TO BE REURNED TO REPORTS DESK    F   LP
--- ~FILE t;ury
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Gtoup does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A
HIGHWAY PROJECT
June 8, 1972



Ifl'TERUATICNAL DEVELCPNT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOIEDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PRCPOSED CREDIT TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A HIGHWAY PROJECT
1*        I submit the following report and recommendation on a pro-
posed development credit to the Yemen Arab Republic for the equivalent
of US $7.7 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a project
for highway development.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A memorandum entitled "Current Economic Position of the
Yemen Arab Republic" (EMA-5oa) dated April 20, 1972, which updates the
economic report issued on October 16, 1970 (EMA-25a) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on May 15, 1972. The next economic mission
is scheduled for the autumn of 1972, and will give particular attention
to agriculture. A Basic Data sheet is attached as Annex II.
3.        Until the Republican regime was established in 1962, Yemen
was a medieval monarchy, almost completely isolated from the rest of the
worl.d. Between 1962 and 1970, the country was ravaged by civil war,
which drained its limited resources and further retarded the beginning
of economic development. These difficulties were increased by severe
droughts in 1968 and 1969. Tribal differences, accentuated by religious
groupings, continue to play an important political role, and at the end
of the civil war found the tribal sheikhs stronger and more independent
than before.
4.        Since early 1970, coalition governments have been trying to
focus attention on the tasks of consolidating the peace, introducing
basic elements of modern governmental administration and economic
management, establishing constitutional procedures, and extending govern-
mental control and services throughout the country. In April 1971, Yemen
held its first election of a national legislature. In the same year, a
number of new institutions were introduced, including a central bank, a
planning office and an industrial development corporation. Two foreign
commercial banks also began operations in 1971. The Government is
encouraging foreign investment and has actively solicited external
assistance from Eastern and Western countries as well as its Arab
neighbors. However, the Government's tasks are made exceptionally
difficult particularly by the severe shortage of experienced and trained
administrators, technicians and labor. It is estimated that in 1970 less
than 250 Government employees had received any post-secondary education,



-2-
and currently less than 1 percent and 10 percent, respectively, of the
children in the relevant age groups attend secondary and primary schools.
Other severe constraints are the continued influence of tribal institu-
tions and the limited natural and financial resources of the country.
Major Sectors
5.        Unlike most countries of the Arabian peninsula, Yemen does
not possess any proven oil resources and the mainstay of its economy is
agriculture. Agriculture accounts for over two-thirds of GNP, and 90
percent of exports and provides employment to over 80 percent of the
labor force. The major crops are cereals, cotton, coffee and qat, a
narcotic leaf. IWater is the major variable affecting production, which
depends significantly on unpredictable rainfall. In an average year,
about two million hectares are cultivated, of which only about 100,000 ha
are irrigated. The Government estimates that as much as 5 million ha
could be cultivated, if water resources were sufficiently developed.
Agriculture is furthermore constrained by the low level of technology,
the lack of credit and extension services, and the absence of roads.
6.        Good rainfall enabled grain production to increase in the
1970/71 harvest season, by an estimated 10-15 percent over tle two
previous yearso However, even in such good years, about 15-20 percent
of domestic food requirements must be imported. Cotton, whose pro-
duction fluctuates heavily depending on rainfall, has replaced coffee
as tha most important cash and export crop. Production of unginned cotton
increased more than sixfold in 1970/71 over the previous year to reach
about 14,000 tons.  Coffee production estimated at about 5,000 tons per
year seems to be declining. This is partly attributable to the compet-
ition from qat, which grows in the same areas, requires less attention
and offers a better return to farmers. The Government is attempting to
reverse this trend.
7.        All other sectors account for less than 30 percent of GNP.
Industry employs less than one percent of the labor force and is confined
largely to agricultural processing and light manufacturing for con-
struction and domestic consumption. Nevertheless, there appear to be good
prospects for the expansion of industry. There is a growing number of
people with entrepreneurial talent, and some inflow of capital which is
being attracted to Yemen from neighboring countries. With the exception
of rock salt, which accounts for about 10 percent of total export earnings,
mineral resources in commercial quantities have not been found in Yemen.
8.        Economic activity in Yemen has increased substantially, during
the past two years. In the absence of reliable estimates for the GNP, no
accurate assessment of changes in output is possible. However, the
indications are that real GNP growth may have exceeded 10 percent in 1970
and probably was somewhat slower in 1971. The expansion originated
mainly in agriculture, stimulated by favorable weather, and was supported



- 3 -
by larger remittances from Yemenis working abroad, higher public ex-
penditures on development projects (mainly financed from abroad), and
private investments in housing, commercial construction and small-scale
induatry.
Financial Improvements
9.        Parallel to the growth of production some improvement was
recorded during 1970 and 1971 in narrowing the large current budget
deficits although fiscal imbalance remains a serious problem. Revenues
increased substantially in 1970/71, partly due to improved tax and
customs collection, while on the expenditure side "loyalty payments" to
the tribes have been gradually reducedo As a result, the proportion of
current expenditure financed out of domestic revenues has risen to over
60 percent compared with about 40 percent in earlier years. The current
deficit, provisionally estimated at YR 73 million ($15 million) in
1970/71, was financed in approximately equal shares by loans from Saudi
Arabia and borrowings from the banking system. However, following the
establishment with II2 support of the central bank in September 1971,
the Government stopped all borrowing from the banking system, and the
deficit in the first half of 1971/72 has been covered largely by Saudi
Arabian and, more recently, Iraqi loans and to a very small extent from
the new central bank. The reorganization of the Treasury, changes in
the tax system and administrative reforms are expected to improve budget
administration and help narraw the deficit further.
10.       Public investment expenditures, financed almost entirely from
abroad, have increased substantially in the past two years. They reached
a level of about $16 million in 1969/70 and in 1970/71, or about 30
percent of total Government expenditures, as compared to about $8 million
a year in the previous three years. Yemen's need for investments in
almost all sectors, in order to reach the modern age, is very great.
Ongoing investment projects in transportation, telecommLnications and
industry are being financed by the USSR, the People's Republic of China,
the Federal Republic of Germany, the German Democratic Republic, and the
Kuwait Fund. The reliance on external aid to finance development is
expected to continue in the foreseeable future, with the wealthier Arab
states as important sources of bilateral assistance. In the field of
developmental planning, the reorganized Central Planning Office, which is
assisted by experts financed jointly through grants from the Kuwait Fund
and the Bank, is working out a development strategy, establishing priorities
and coordinating international aid.
11i       On the external side, stabilization of the previously fluctuating
free exchange rate at a level of 5 Rials to 1US$ was achieved in 1971 and
relaxation of trade restrictions was made possible, thanks mainly to inflows
of emigrant remittances and foreign aid as well as to the reduction of
budget deficits. The traditional large trade deficit (about $50 to $60
million) continued in 1970 and 1971 but was more than offset by receipts of



invisibles and foreign assistance. The favorable balance of payments
situation permitted, for the first time, some accumulation of reserves
and prepared the ground for rational debt management in the future.
External Debt
12.       As of December 31, 1971, Yements total external public debt
outstanding was $209 million, of which $138 million has been disbursed.
Of the total debt outstanding, more than two-thirds was made up of
originally 10-15 year loans from the USSR and the People's Republic of
China. More recently most loans to Yemen have been on concessional
terms, including loans of $15 million from Germany and Kuwait, contracted
in 1970, and $9 million from Iraq, received in 1971. The external debt
service was about $10 million in 1971, an equivalent of 6.5 percent of
eXports of goods and services, but much heavier payments were due in sub-
sequent years. In late 1971, the People's Republic of China agreed to
the postponment of both amortization and interest payments until 1981.
USSR agreed to a similar arrangement in January 1972. These arrangements
have considerably eased Yemen's debt service burdens, and the authorities
are now committed to a more cautious policy of borrowing only on soft
terms for specific priority projects.
13.      In view of Yemen's low per capita GNP (estimated to be about
$50), and ita difficult financial circumstances, the Government's
ability to contribute toward the cost of development projects will con-
tinue to be very limited in the foreseeable future. Until its resource
mobilization and expenditure control can be improved, it would be un-
realistic to expect the Government contribution to be more than a nominal
amount of total project costs. Furthermore, considering the country's
limited resources, its need for substantial investments to develop its
economy, and its low per capita GNP, Yemen should receive Bank Group
assistance on IDA terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP CPERATIONS IN YEMEN
14.      When Yemen became a mez,Uer of the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1970,
it lacked most of the basic institutions of economic and fiscal management,
and had no plans or strategy for the development of its economy. There
was virtually no information about the country or its resources on which
to establish a lending program. Therefore, the Bank Group's initial
strategy in Yemen was threefold: one, to assist the Government, in co-
operation with the LF and the Kuwait Fund, to introduce or improve
essential institutions required to guide and promote the development of
the economy; two, to help formulate a strategy for economic growth,
including a development program, and to participate in the identification
and preparation of projects; and three, to begin lending for specific
projects in areas of obvious priority, or where preparation work had
already begun.



I5.       The proposed development credit would finance the Bank Group's
first investment project in Yemen. However, the Bank is already assisting
Yemen, through a technical assistance project. In July 1971, the
Executive Directors approved a grant of $200,000 to help finance, jointly
with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, a team of planning
and economic advisors to assist in preparing an economic development
strategy, identifying investment projects and coordinating external aid.
The project is proceeding very satisfactorily, and the advisors appear
to have won the full respect and support of the Government and of
business circles.
16.       The future IDA lending contemplated for Yemen emphasizes the
provision of physical and institutional infrastructure, and the deve-
lopment of productive resources. Heavy emphasis is being placed by the
Government on improving the productivity of agriculture, creating a
transport system to open the country, and improving education. Accord-
ingly, the Bank Group has made special efforts to identify and prepare
projects including the proposed project, the Tihama irrigation project,
which is currently being appraised, and the projects for education and
water supply which are being assisted by the Co-operative Programmes
with UNESCO and W4HO. These three projects are likely to lead to lending
operations within the next fifteen months. An industrial estate project,
and another project in agriculture, have been identified for later
lending, The Government expects that by late 1973, with the assistance
of the planning team, a development strategy and a tentative three to
five year investment program will have been outlined. Projects suitable
for ADA consideration after FY 1974, are expected to emerge from this
exercise. Meanwhile, to increase the Bank's knowledge of the major
sectors, and assist the Government in its planning,sector reviews in
agriculture and public utilities are planned within the next several months.
PART III - THE SECTOR AIND THE PROJECT
The Sector
17.       Like most other sectors of the economy, the transportation
sector in Yemen was almost completely undeveloped until the late 1950's.
Primitive roads suitable only for animals and four-wheel drive vehicles
connected the major towns; port facilities were confined to a small
lighterage port at Mochaj and there was no regular air service to or
within Yemen. When development was initiated, substantial investments
were made in transportation. Yemen began to be opened to the outside
world in 1960, when a new port financed by the USSR, was completed at
Hodeida, and a highway, financed by the People's Republic of China (PRC),
was completed between Hodeida and the capital, Sana'a. The fertile central
and southern highlands were penetrated in 1966 by a highway, financed by
USAID from Sana'a to the commercial city of Taiz. The triangle between
Yemen's three major cities, Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeida (see attached map),
was completed in 1969 with the Taiz-Hodeida highway constructed with USSR



- 6 -
assistance. Development of the primary highways should be completed by
1974, with completion of the Sana'a-Saadah road to northern Yemen,
financed by the PRC, and paving and realignment of the Sanata-Taiz
highway, financed by the Federal Republic of Germany. The capacity of
Hodeida port is already strained and negotiations are underway with the
USSR to expand it to its maximum capacity. The natural port of Salif
will be developed for rock salt export. Yemen is now served by very
limited air services with the outside world and a few domestic flights
linking Sanata, Taiz and Hodeida. The Sana'a and Taiz airstrips are
being improved to accommodate larger aircraft.
18.       Although important investments in highways have been made, the
road network is still in an early stage of development. Of Yemen's
2,300 laa of roads, more than 60 percent are feeder roads and tracks.
About 800 km are major roads, of which only 4401 km are paved (essentially
the highways mentioned in paragraph 17). Obvious deficiencies in the
road network are the absence of good secondary roads and the limited
feeder road system. However, since peace was restored in Yemen, there
has been a remarkable increase in demand for access and feeder roads in
virtually every region. Local communities have pledged financial support
for feeder road construction, and the Government has already received or
expects to receive, in the next five years, over $5 million equivalent
fron these communities for tnis purpose. A program of feeder road
construction will be prepared and initiated under the project.
190       Investments in highways have not been accompanied by the
growth of adequate institutional arrangements for administering and
maiintaining the highway network. The two organizations in Yemen which
have been responsible for the highway sector have not had the capacity
to plan, design, construct or adequately maintain the road system. High-
ways have been planned by the bilateral donors, leading to substantial
variation in designs and proliferation of road standards. Government
construction has been confined, for reasons of technical capacity, to
feeder road construction on an ad hoc basis. In the past, local main-
tenance operations have been limited essentially to the Sana'a-Taiz road,
while two other major roads, Sana'a-Hodeida and Hodeida-Taiz, have been
maintained as part of the bilateral loan arrangements. However, these
arrangements have recently been terminated. The Government now bears the
responsibility for maintaining the whole road network, but lacks equipment
and technical expertise to maintain them properly.
20.       Statistics on transport, including the road system, are sparse.
Neither regular traffic counts nor origin and destination studies have
been made although traffic counts were made for some individual road
projects financed by the bilateral donors involved. To formulate a viable
road program over the next five years, traffic counts and origin and
destination studies will be essential, and a program therefore will be
prepared and initiated under the project.



-7-
History of the Project
21.       In September 1970, the Government requested IDA assistance for
road development. On the recommendation of the IDA identification mission
in February 1971, the UNDP agreed to finance an investment feasibility
study for roads, with the Bank as Executing Agency* After the study was
completed an IDA mission appraised the proposed project in October 1971.
Upon IDA's recommendation, the UNDP subsequently also financed the
feasibility study and detailed engineering of the 69 km secondary road
from Taiz to Turba, construction of which is included in the proposed
project. This work was substantially completed in April 1972, and
negotiations for the proposed project were held between May 8 and 12,
1972. The Yemen delegation was headed by Mr. Al-Gunaid, Minister for
Economic Development, and included Mr. Geghman, Yemen's Ambassador to the
UN and Mr. Karshumi, head of the executive agency for public works.
Project Composition and Objectives
22.       The project will assist in developing the secondary road
network, organizing an efficient Highway Authority, and improving the
Government's capability to construct feeder roads. It includes con-
struction of 69 km of the Taiz-Turba road, feasibility studies for
about 470 km of selected roads serving agricultural areas, detailed engi-
neering of up to 260 km of high priority roads or stretches identified
by the feasibility studies, purchase of some feeder road construction
and highway maintenance equipment including spare parts, technical
assastance to organize and operate a highway authority, and training
abroad of selected Yemeni staff of the authority. Details of the project
are given in the Credit and Project Summary (Annex III) and in the
report, "Appraisal of a Highway Project - Yemen Arab Republic" dated
June 5, 1972 (No. PTR-113a), which is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. The location of project components is shown on the
attached map.
23.       Construction under the project will consist of improvements to
an existing track, linking the major marketing center of Taiz with the
important agricultural center of Turba. The track is the only marketing
route for the numerous fertile valleys in southern Taiz province, and
serves a population of about 350,000. Although the track was upgraded
in 1967 by USAID, it still lacks bridges, culverts and surfacing, and has
deteriorated for lack of maintenance.  Cerealsy vegetables, coffee and
some citrus are the major commodities from this progressive agricultural
region which would be transported on the road.
24.       The roads included for feasibility studies comprise three
secondary roads, which were identified by the initial study as being of
high priority. These roads provide access to agricultural areas and
markets. If the priority of these roads is confirmed, detailed engineer-
ing will be undertaken of about 260 km of selected roads which could form
the basis of projects suitable for further assistance by external agencies,
including IDA.



- 8 -
25.       The equipmenit to be purchased under the project would enable
the Government to implement its program of feeder road construction and
undertake adequate maintenance of the existing highway network. The
Credit will also provide finance for spare parts for the present equip-
ment, which still has a usable life of five years and today is lying
dormant.
26.       The technical assistance financed under the project will be
provided by a team consisting of engineers, experts in administration,
accounting, heavy equipment operation, contract operations, and workshop
supervisors. The team will help organize and initially operate the new
Highway Authority. The expert on contract operations and bidding proce-
dures will advise local contractors on the preparation of bids. Because
of the acute shortage of professional and skilled staff and the need to
provide suitable counterpart staff for the technical assistance team,
most of the training for the project will be provided on the job,
although some short-term overseas fellowships are also provided.
Project Tmplement ation
27.       The project will be carried out by the new IHighway Authority
to be established and organized under the project. The Govemrment has
confirmed its intention to create such an Authority along the lines
recommended in the feasibility study, and draft legislation to establish
it has been agreed with the Association, and submitted to the National
Asssibly. Creation of the Highway Authority will be a condition of
effectiveness of the credit. The Authority will be a semi-autonomous
entity within the Ministry of Public Works.
Project Cost and Financing
28.       The project is estimated to cost about $8.6 million, with a
foreign exchange content of about 78 percent.  The project cost includes,
in addition to physical and price contingencies on most project items
(Annex III), a 20 percent contingency on the construction component to
allow for uncertainties regarding contracting conditions in Yemen. The
amount is net of taxes, as Yemen waives duties and other taxes on goods
and services imported for development projects. The proposed development
credit would finance about 89 percent of the total project costs, corres-
ponding to the full foreign exchange component and a little over 50
percent of the local expenditure. This high IDA contribution to total
project cost is justified by Yements very limited financial resources.
The Government has undertaken to provide the balance of about $900,000
equivalent, or about 11 percent of tatal project costs. In meeting
this obligation, Yemen will probably provide up to $200,000 from its
own resources in cash and kind, and will complete arrangements for a
loan on soft terms for the balance of $700,000 from the Kuwait Fund for
Arab Economic Development, The Kuwait Fund has confirmed that it will
make these funds available under arrangements which will ensure that Yemen



-9-
can effectively meet its obligations under the project. These funds and
the Yemeni contribution will be deposited in a revolving fund, according
to the scheduled progress of the project. The establishment of this
fund is a condition of effectiveness.
Procurement Arrangements
29.     International competitive bidding would be followed for the
construction of the Taiz-Turba road, and for the procurement of main-
tenance and construction equipment. Domestic contractors are not
sufficiently experienced to undertake construction of the Taiz-Turba road,
but are expected to participate as sub-contractors on such work as drain-
age and haulage. Spare parts for existing equipment must be obtained
from the same manufacturers, and will be purchased after obtaining
quotations from selected suppliers. The engineering and materials
testing equipment costing about $75,000, is too small to justify inter-
national competitive bidding, and will therefore be purchased after
obtaining quotations from selected suppliers.
30.     Yemen is a member of the Arab Common Market and applies
preferential tariffs to imports from member countries. However, Yemen
wa:ves import duties and taxes for development projects and', in line with
this policy, the Government will waive all tariffs and charges on goods
and services under the project and evaluate bids on a c.i.f. basis.
Dishursement Arrangements
31      Disbursement from the Credit Account will be on the basis of:
85 percent of the cost of the construction; 90 percent of the cost of
the consulting services; 100 percent of the foreign cost of the training
aborad; and the c.i.f. landed costs of imported construction and
maintenance equipment and spare parts and engineering and materials
testing equipment. Funds to purchase the construction and maintenance
equipment will be disbursed according to the list of items agreed between
the Association and the Government.
Rate of Return
32.     The estimated rate of return to the econony of the Taiz-Turba
road is about 17 percent, based on road user savings on present and
generated traffic. Generated traffic corresponding to about 40 percent
of normal traffic is expected when the road is opened in 1975. The FAO
estimates that agricultural production in this area could be tripled with
proper inputs and improved husbandry.   The road may accelerate this
agricultural development but this possibility has not been included in the
economic analysis. The estimate of benefits is therefore conservative.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
33*     The draft Credit Agreement between the Association and the



- 10 -
Yemen Arab Republic, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of
the resolution approving the proposed credit are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. The draft agreement conforms to the
normal pattern for credits for highway projects.
34.       I am satisfied the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART V - RECCMENDATION
35.       I recommend the Executbe Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 8, 1972
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
There have been no Bank, MA or IFC lending operations in the
Yemen Arab Republic. The Bank made one grant of $200,000 in July, 1971,
to help finance a team of economic ard planning advisors. The project is
proceeding satisfactorily.
June 8, 1972



AMNEX II
Page 1 of 2
BASIC DATA
Area                                          75,000 square miles
Population                                    5.8 million
Gross National Product 1971                   approximately US $300 million
Per Capita GIP 1971                               "      US $ 50
1969/70           1970/71
Government Finance                               TM-llions of Rials)
Current revenues                             80.7             122.9
Tax revenues                              64.3             103.0
Other revenues                            16.4              19.9
Current expenditures                        137.0             196.1
Deficit in current account                   56.3              73.2
Development expenditure                    81.5                832.
Over-all deficit                            136.8             156.4
External assistance                          92.1             119.2
Domestic financing                           44.7              37.2
Dec.             June
Money and Credit                                1970             1971
(Millions of RialT
Money Supply                                226.3             273.9
Claims on the private sector                 29.3              47.7
Net claims on the government sector         154.o             213.0
Balance of Payments                             1970             1971
UU3llions of Rials)
Exports                                      15.7              20.7
Imports                                    -169.o            -171.7
Trade Balance                              -153.3            -151.0
Invisibles, net (including transfers)       317.5             242.0
Balance on goods and services               164.2              91.0
Commodity Concentration of Exports              1970             1971
T er cent of Total
Cotton                                        _                43
Coffee                                       52                20
Qat                                          27                13
Salt                                         10                11
Others                                       11                13



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
1971
Convertible Foreign Exchange Reserves (end of period)    $18 million
IMF Position (end of period)                                1971
Quota                                                 $10 million
SDR Allocation                                       $1.07 million
External Public Debt                                        1971
Outstanding (end of period)                          $209.0 million
Disbursed                                            $138.1 million
Debt service                                         $ 10.0 million
Debt service ratio (% of exports of goods and
services)           6.5 %
IBRD/IDA  erations (end of period)                          1971
Technical Assistance graait                          $02 million
June 8, 1972



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC  - HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:              Yemen Arab Republic
AMOUNT:                US $7.7 million equivalent
TERMS:                 Standard
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:   The project cansists of the following:
(i) construction of a 69-km secondary road
between Taiz and Turba;
(ii) supervision of construction of this road
by consultants;
(iii)  feasibility studies by cons.l1tants, inc-
luding prelim-riary engineering, of about
470-1m of hJih priority ro-is, (Taiz-Hlais,
D amar- Radar.;ia, Yei im-Reb ab-Nad.rnat
Al Abid-:ajJil. and its alternate HlIabar-
Anis Duran-MNadinat Al Abid- bajjil);
(iv) detail.ed engineering by consultants of
about 2&0 km of roads or stretches thereof,
detenmined by the feasibility studies
as being of high priority;
(v) spare parts for existing highway main-
tenance equipment;
(vi)  equipment for road maintenance, feeder
road construction and engineering and
testing;
(vii) technical assistance by consultants for
the organization and operation of a High-
way Authority;
(viii) training abroad of selected staff by the
Highway Authority.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
ESTMTEATD COST:                                    (US $ thousands)
Local     Foreini     Total
1.  Construction          945       2,255       3,200
2. Supervision of
construction           50         200         250
3.  Feasibility studies   145          575        720
4. Detailed engineering   130          520        650
5. Equipment for Highway
Maintenance and Con-
struction              40         700         740
6. Engineering and test-
ing equipment and
spare parts            20         355        375
7.  Technical assistance  155         875       1,030
8.  Overseas training       5           15         20
Sub-total      1,490       5,495      6s985
9. Contingencies           L1.205               1.65
TOTAL PROJECT
COST        1,940       6,700       8,640
FINANCING PLAN:                                    (US $ thousands)
Local      Foreign     Total
IDA credit              1,000       6,700       7,700
Government contribution
(partly to be financed
by loan from Kuwait Fund
for Arab Economic Deve-
lopment)                  941         _940
TOTAL          1,940       6,700      8,640



AN= 11I
Page 3 of 3
ESTIKATED                 (US $ thousands)
DISBURSEMENTS:     1972     1973     1974     1975
50    2,770    3,250    1,630
PROCUREMENT
ARRANGEMENTS:      International competitive bidding for constraction,
and equipment for highway maintenance and feeder
road construction.  Since spare parts are tied to
existing equipment and the cost of engineering and
testing equipment ($75,000) is small, international
competition for these items would be dispensed with.
Consultant firms would be selected from an agreed
list of international consultants.
CONSULTANTS:       Consultants would be engaged for supervision of
construction, feasibility studies and detailed
engineering, and technical assistance to the High-
way Authority.
RATE OF RETURN:    Economic return 17 percent.
APPRAISAL REPORT: Report No. PTR-113a dated June 5, 1972,
Transportation Projects Department.
June 8, 1972



bRoUsp§sYllA J  g  ,, ^ N S A U D I  A R A B I A
SAUreoT*^L4F-\DI  ARABIA                       YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
o :AE, ^ uHI o 1  X            Dtiotoou                         HIGHWAY         NETWORK
\ 2 0  tIoN  *1w_                                                 ,fel  o' r  * Primary roods
- U  ~        /          N                 2                 ,/ % g \gJ.<- ~~~Pr-mory ro3ds under construction
I, . 0                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Other roads and  tracks
'SOMALIA                           s,. T t~) t 9 PROJECT ROADS
I l,lior.o  '                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Construction
t^I -            .Feasibil,ty                            study
Soaot 7i '-..7 o                  *  Wad, or rw0er
-     I-l ntenotional boundories
0e.,u \   *" -loo. Contours in meters
*9  Capitol
0   Cities, towns and nilloges
3 ~HA,/                                       ..... Pronincial  boundaries
Mmdi  l   l             t         J   ./              +   Airport, Internotionaol
I20     \          t ..                 '\            t0z /  J Y E M E N  A R A B  u
uoe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E P\8 U                 _'L I C'
a0  tO  20  30  40  50  600
U.,.F
\ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~~~01 /     ,        J    PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
Alv 2                            <                OEN
\Qs                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~THE OOUNDARiES SHOWN ON OTHIS M^AP 00 NOT
9   U / /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MT ENRDORSEMNT ORD gFA,CLCEPTANCE 3Y THE
t~~~     G    l                                  WOL AIOAOISAFtITS
0  Al~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
'-    ) W-4
i3RD 3070
FE9RUARY Iv7Z



