RESTRICTED
Report No.   PTR-113a
This report is for offidal use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized organizations
or persons. It nay not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization, The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
June 5, 1972
Transportation Projects Department



Oarrency Equivalents:
Currency Unit - Yemen (Ral Ml)
U$0.20          Y IRis 1.00
U$L.OO        - Yas 5.00
US$20),000    X YRla 1 million
Fisoal Year:  July 1 - June 30
System of weights and MeasureMs Metric
Mietric                British/US
1 meter (m)          - 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)     - 0.62 miles tmi)
1 metric ton (a ton) = 2,204.60 pounds (lb)
Abbreviations and Acronyrm 
PAO        - Food and Agriculture Organization
GOCCD      - General Corporation for Construction and Development
iIS        - Investment Feasibility Study for Roads
1w         - International labour Organisation
MW         - Ministry of Public works
PRC        - People's Republic of China
RCMD       - Road Construction and Maintenance Department
SwECO      - Swedish Consulting Group
UK         - United Kingdom
UNDP       - United Nations Development Programme
US         - United States
US A.E1D.  - United States Agency for International Development
USSR       - Union of Soviet Socialist Rpublics
ADT        - Average Daily Traffic
IER        - Internal Economic Returr
km/h       - kilometers per hour
VOC        - Vehicle Operating Costs



APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
CONTENTS
Page No.
SUlMARY ...................,....................            i - iii
I.  INTRODUCTION ..                                                    1
II.   THE TRANSPORTATION SECTOR                  ..2
A.  The Country and its Economy .              .              2
B. The Modes ..............                                   2
C.   Planning, Financing, and Coordination                    3
III.      THE HIGHWAY SECTOR .............................               4
A.   The Network .............................                4
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Traffic                    5
C.- Administration           ..                               5
D. Planning and Financing .                 .                 6
E. Engineering ..                                             7
F. Construction .                      .                      8
G. Maintenance .                      .                       8
IV. THE PROJECT.                                                        9
A. Description . .                                            9
B.   Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component           12
C. Execution .12
D. Financing .15
E. Disbursements .15
V.  ECONcIMIC EVALUATION .15
A. The Taiz-Turba Road   .                .15
B. Benefits from the Project .16
VI.      AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   .         .17
This report was prepared by Messrs. B. Kennedy (Engineer), R. Rafloski
(Economist), and Mrs. P. Valad (Editor).



CONTENTS (Continued)
TABLES
1.  Construction and Improvement of Roads and Tracks under Bilateral Aid
2.   Registered Motor Vehicles, by Province, December 1970
3.   Design Standards for Taiz-Turba Road
4.   Equipment Urgently Requiring Spare Parts: Cost Summary
5.   Average Daily Traffic (ADT) on Taiz-Turba Road, 1972-94
6.   Estimated Benefits and Costs for Construction of Taiz-Turba Road,
1972-94
7.   Rates of Return for Construction of Taiz-Turba Road
ANNEXES
A.  Roads Included for Feasibility Studies
B.   Technical Assistance to Organize and Operate a Highway Authority
C.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
CHARTS
1.   Existing Organization of the Ministry of Public Works
2.   Proposed Organization of the Highway Authority of the Ministry
of Public Works
MAP
Highway Network



APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
SUMARY
i.        The transport system of the Yeman Arab Republic (Yemen) is still
in an early stage of development. Airports at Hodeidah, Taiz, and Sana'a
service domestic and international flights, and air strips at Saadah and
Berat service domestic flights. Ports at Hodeidah, Salif, and Mocha handle
international trade. No railways operate in Yemen. The primary road system
has been fairly well developed since 1960, princ4pally with bilateral aid;
about 440 km of the 840 km total has been asphalt-surfaced. However, no
secondary road system exists and feeder roads are inadequate to serve exist-
ing and potential agricultural production.
ii.       The Bank Group lending strategy for Yemen emphasizes development
and expansion of agriculture (for which secondary and feeder roads are needed)
and institution-building of agencies dealing with management of the economy
and with development projects. In line with this strategy, the proposed high-
way project will assist in: developing the secondary road network; organiz-
ing an efficient Highway Authority; and improving the Government's capability
to construct needed feeder roads.
iii.      A 1971 Investment Feasibility Study for Roads (IFS), financed by
the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), was carried out by the
consulting firm Swedish Consulting Group (SWECO), with the Bank Group as
Executing Agency. Under the IFS, a preliminary highway investment program
for 1972-79 was prepared, listing apparently high priority roads. Construc-
tion of the secondary road between Taiz and Turba (about 69 km) was ranked
high in the list and is included in the proposed project to help correct the
deficiency in secondary roads. A more complete economic analysis and detailed
engineering of the road, also financed by the UNDP, were carried out by SWECO.
Feasibility studies of about 470 km of high priority roads identified under
the IFS and detailed engineering of about 260 km of these roads will be
carried out by consultants under the proposed project; these roads could be
the basis of further projects suitable for lending by external agencies.
iv.       The IFS revealed administrative and operational deficiencies in the
two Government agencies now responsible for highways. Therefore, it recom-
mended technical assistance to organize and operate in the Ministry of Public
Works (MPW) a capable and efficient Highway Authority; consulting services
for this purpose are included in the proposed project. Also included for the
new Authority are: purchases of equipment for feeder road construction and
highway maintenance, spare parts for existing maintenance equipment, and en-
gineering and materials testing equipment; and staff training abroad. With



-    -i
the help of the technical assistanee consultants, the project will be
implemented over 3 years under the responsibility of the MPW through the
new Highway Authority.
v.        Construction under the project consists essentially of further im-
provement to an existing tra±k, linking the main marketing center at Taiz
with the important agricultural center at Turba. The track is the only mar-
keting route for the numerous fertile valleys in southern Taiz Province. The
track was upgraded in 1967 with assistance from the United States Agency for
International Development. But it still lacks bridges, culverts, and surfacing
and has deteriorated since upgrading because it was not maintained. Based on
experience with improvements of the road in 1967/68, traffic is expected to
be generated when the new road is opened. This traffic has been estimated at
40% of normal traffic in 1975. Existing and generated traffic are conservatively
estimated to increase 7% until 1985, declining to 4.5% thereafter. Based on
vehicle operating cost savings for existing and generated traffic, the Internal
Economic Return for the road construction has been estimated between 11% and
23%, with the most likely estimate 17%.
vi.       The total project Cost is estimated at US$8.6 million, with a for-
eign exchange component of US$6.7 million or 78%. The cost estimate for the
construction element was prepared by SWEC0 under the IFS, based on substan-
tially completed detailed engineering. Costs of consulting services were
based on estimated man-months required and on costs of similar services in
countries with generally the same local conditions as Yemen.  The amount
allocated for procurement of equiptXent for feedet road construction and
highway maintenance is tentative. The Government, aided by the technical
assistance team, will prepare a list of proposed items atd those to be pur-
chased will be selected in consultation with the Association. The costs of
spare parts for existing maintenance equipment were estimated by SWECO. These
items are tied to manufacturers and will be purchased after obtaining quota-
tions from selected suppliers. The estimated costs of the engineering and
materials testing equipment are not sufficient to justify international com-
petitive bidding, and they will be purchased after obtaining quotations from-
selected manufacturers.
vii.      The proposed project will be financed by an IDA credit of US$7.7
million, covering the foreign exchange costs and about 50% of the local costs.
Yemen will provide the balance of the local cost, about US$900,000 or 11% of
the project cost.  The Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development has agreed
in principle to provide a loan of up to US$800,000 on soft terms to assist
the Government in financing its contribution to the project.  A Project
Revolving Fund will be established to ensure prompt payments to contractors
and consultants.  The Associatiot will disburse funds to purchase the con-
struction and maintenatce equipmant accotding to a list of items identified
by the Government and the technieal assistatce tea±i and agreed between the
Association and the Governigient.



- iii -
viii.     Conditions of credit effectiveness are:  (a) employment of consult-
ants for technical assistance to the new Highway Authority; (b) legal es-
tablishment of a Highway Authority in the MPW along the lines recommended
by the IFS; and (c) establishment of the Project Revolving Fund.






APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      During the Bank Group Annual Meeting of 1970, the Government of
the Yemen Arab Republic (Yemen) asked the Association for assistance in im-
proving and developing its highway network. A preappraisal mission visited
Yemen in February 1971, and recommended a short-term Investment Feasibility
Study for Roads (IFS) to identify projects suitable for external financial
assistance. The United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) financed the
IFS and the consulting firm Swedish Consulting Group (SWECO) of Sweden
carried it out, with the Bank Group as Executing Agency. The proposed
Highway Project is based on the recommendations of the IFS.
1.02      The project will assist in developing the secondary road network;
organizing an efficient Highway Authority; and improving the Government's
capability to construct needed feeder roads. It is in line with the Bank
Group lending strategy for Yemen, emphasizing development and expansion of
agriculture (for which secondary and feeder roads are needed) and institution-
building of agencies dealing with management of the economy and with develop-
ment projects. The Government has informed the Association that UNDP finance
will not be requested for feasibility studies, technical assistance, and
training abroad because its funds are required for other development projects.
Therefore, these elements are included in the proposed project.
1.03      This will be the first project in Yemen financed by the Bank Group.
However, the Bank and the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development (Kuwait
Fund) made a joint grant to the Govermnent on July 29, 1971 to assist in fi-
nancing a team of experts to advise and assist the Government on improving its
economic institutions and its development planning and strategy (para. 2.10).
1.04      This report is based on the findings of the September/October 1971
appraisal mission composed of Messrs. S. C. Hardy and B. P. Kennedy (Engineers)
and R. E. Rafloski (Economist). It was written by Messrs. Kennedy and Rafloaki
and edited by Mrs. P. Valad.



- 2 -
II. THE TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
A.   The Country and its Economy 1/
2.01      Yemen, located on the southwest corner of the Arabian Peninsula,
has an area of about 190,000 km2. The country has a sandy coastal plain
(the Tihama), mountains (the Western Slopes, Middle Height Country, Central
Highlands, and Eastern Slopes), and desert (Rub-El-Khali). Most of the pop-
ulation and economic activity is concentrated on the fertile mountain
plateaus, which can be reached by only a few feeder roads.
2.02      The major economic sector is subsistence agriculture, accounting for
75% of the Gross Domestic Product and providing the livelihood for about 80%
of the population. Of the 19 million ha in Yemen, about 5 million ha are
cultivable but only 2 million ha are cropped and the remainder left fallow.
The potential for increased agricultural production is substantial, but
realization of the potential depends on development of adequate water re-
sources, provision of agricultural inputs and services, and construction
of secondary and feeder roads.
B.   The Modes
2.03      Roads are the only means of surface transport.  Before the 1960's,
primitive roads adequate for use only by animal transport (donkeys, mules,
and camels) connected major cities. Heavy-duty trucks and four-wheel drive
vehicles were able to negotiate these roads, but the rough bumpy surfaces re-
sulted in short vehicle lives and high transport costs. Since 1957, with
bilateral assistance from the People's Republic of China (PRC), United States
(US), Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR), and Federal Republic of
Germany, a network of main highways, a harbor, and several airports were
constructed, providing the basis for improved trade and development.
(a) Highways
2.04      Details of the highway sector are discussed in Chapter III.
(b) Ports
2.05      The Hodeidah Port Authority is responsible for Yemen's major port
operations. It is a relatively autonomous organization which reports to the
Ministry of Public Works (MPW). The budget for ports is approved by the Min-
ister of the Treasury. Most international trade is by sea through the ports
of Hodeidah, Salif, and Mocha. Hodeidah is the main port for general cargo
1/   Additional information may be found in IBRD/IDA Report EMA-50a, Memorandum
on Economic Position of the Yemen Arab Republic, April 20, 1972.



-3-
and oil. It was built between 1958 and 1961 with the aid of the USSR.
Hodeidah is well-sheltered and has a 400 m quay. Freight handled has grown
from 79,000 m tons in 1968 to 296,000 m tons in 1970. Operations are poorly
organized and the Government is currently considering whether to request UNDP
technical assistance to improve operations. The USSR has made a tentative
commitment to enlarge Hodeidah's facilities, but has not stated what increase
in capacity it is-willing to finance. The relative importance and potential
of Hodeidah depends in part on future access to the Mediterranean Sea through
the Suez Canal. Salif is a specialized port for rock salt export, and over
170,000 m tons were exported in 1969. The Kuwait Fund has agreed to finance
expansion of the cargo-handling capacity at this port. A US$2.1 million con-
struction contract is being negotiated. One of the conditions of the financ-
ing is that the Government should improve road access to the port. Mocha, a
very small lighterage port, is almost completely silted in and visited by few
ships.
(c) Civil Aviation
2.06      Major airports servicing domestic flights and international airlines
are located at Taiz, Sana'a, and Hodeidah. In add'.tion, air strips at Saadah
and Berat provide domestic service in the north. Only daylight landings are
possible. Taiz airport requires about US$400,000 to acquire navigational aids
and complete terminal facilities. Sana'a has a small terminal, and a larger
one is being constructed. A contract for upgrading the runway has been let
to a joint venture of contractors from the Federal Republic of Germany and the
United Kingdom (UK), which is also improving the Ta!z-Sana'a Road (para. 3.18).
The total cost for upgrading and expanding the Sana'a airport, including navi-
gational aids, is estimated at US$5 million.
2.07      Yemen Airlines, the national carrier owned by the Government, is
governed by a Board of Directors responsible to the Ministry of Communications.
The Airline has a fleet of four DC-3's and tlhree DC-6BWs. Service is sched-
uled to the French Territory of the Afars and the Isaas, the Arab Republic of
Egypt, Ethiopia, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, and the People's Democratic Republic
of Yemen. Recent increases in capacity have been quickly absorbed, and the
airline has been operating with a small profit.
C.   Planning, Financing, and Coordination
2.08      Yemen is still in an early stage of development.  It lacks an
economic development program, capacity to identify and prepare investment
projects for bilateral and multilateral aid, and coordination of external
assistance programs. No transport planning exists at present, either in the
newly established Central Planning Organization, responsible for overall eco-
nomic planning, or in the Ministry of Communications and the MPW, specifically
charged with transport. Transport investments are made on a project basis,
with the availability of foreign aid determining which projects are selected.
Intermodal priorities or relative requirements within modes are not considered,
particularly for ports and civil aviation and to a lesser extent for highways.



-4-
2.09      Since 1957 virtually all Yemen's capital development has been fi-
nanced by foreign aid.  Of the approximately US$240 million in grants and
loans committed for development projects during the last 15 years, about
US$120 million or 50% waS allocated to the transport sector. About US$100
millioh or 80Z of this amount was estimated to be for highways.  Of the
latter, about 60% has been disbutred.
2.10      To fill the void in economic planning, identification and prepara-
tion of investment projects, and coordination of external assistance, a team
of planning experts sponsored by the Bank and the Kuwait Pund (para. 1.03)
started work on October 1, 1971. The team is working in the Central Planning-
Organization in the Office of the Prime Minister and is advising and assisting
in preparing an economic development strategy, identifying investment projects,
ranking projects according to prioritv, and coordinating external assistance.
By 1973 the team is expected to prepare a list of proposed development projects
for the various sectors, including transportation (para. 3.11).
III. THE .1IGHWAY SECTOR
A.   The Network
3.01      The highway network, totalling about 2,270 km, is mainly con-
centrated in the provinces of Saha'a, Hodeidah, Taiz, and Ibb. It is clas-
sified by function as primary (main) roads (840 km), feeder roads (730 Ian),
and tracks (700 km). The main roads run generally north-south, with some
east-west links, and no tOads go into the desert. Obvious deficiencies in
the existing network are the absence of good seeondary toads and the limited
feeder road system.  Important agricultural highlands around Yerim, Damar,
and Mabar are now connected to the main export port of Hodeidah by cir-
cuitous routes through Sana'a ot Taiz.  Secondary toads not only would
provide shorter routes between these areas, but also would open up areas
of high agricultural potential in the many fertile valleys of the Eastern
and Western Slopes.
3.02      About 437 km of the main roads are asphalt-surfaced, and they are
generally in fair cohdition. The feedet roads are gravel, crushed stone, or
earth-surfaced.  The tracks, mainly improved animal tracks with poor align-
ment, are passable only by four-wheel dtive vehicles.
3.03      Most of the main road network will be completed by 1974 as the
result of bilateral aid teceived since 1957 from the PRC, US, USSR, and
Federal Republic of Gertany.  Details are shown in Table 1.  Because the
Government realizes the importatce of providing secondary road connections,
it has asked the Association to assist in constructing the road between
Taiz and Turba. It also has made a bilateral agreement with the PRC for



-5-
construction of an east-west road between Amran and Hajja in the north. The
details of this agreement are not available.
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Traffic
3,04      Statistics on the highway sector are sparse, and reliable trend data
on vehicle registration, fuel consumption, commodities hauled, or length of
haul, are not available. In 1971 the Government published the first statistics
on registered motor vehicles in only four of the eight provinces. They showed
9,523 vehicles as of December 1970, consisting of motorcycles (34%), trucks
(31%), taxis (27%), and private cars (8%). Details are given in Table 2.
3.05      Neither systematic regular traffic counts nor origin and destina-
tion studies have been taken in Yemen. Traffic counts were made for individ-
ual road projects financed by the US and the Federal Republic of Germany,
but no trend data are available. SWECO undertook the first systematic traffic
count for major roads, including the project roads, under the IFS. To for-
mulate a viable road development program over the next 5 years, traffic counts
and origin and destination surveys are essential. During credit negotiations,
the Government gave assurances that, with the aid of the technical assistance
team under the project, it will institute and implement a regular program to
collect traffic data.
3.06      Few regulations govern traffic or highway usage; they are controlled
by the Ministry of the Interior. Only registration of vehicles and licensing
of drivers are required, but no organized method exists for either and legisla-
tive control is practically non-existent. No regulations exist to control ve-
hicle weights and dimensions.  Customs duties on vehicles and taxes on fuel
are levied, but statistics are unavailable to determine revenues and their
relationships to highway investments. During credit negotiations, the Gov-
ernment gave assurances that, with the aid of the technical assistance team
under the project, it will: review and, if necessary, amend current legislation
regarding vehicle registration, licensing, and weight and dimension regulations;
formulate and enact any necessary additional legislation; and take the ne-
cessary steps to enforce the legislation. Because Yemen has just emerged
from a long period of civil strife and civil service organization is still
rudimentary, establishment of an organization capable of enforcing such
legislation will take time. However, a start will be made under the project.
C.   Administration
3.07      The existing organization of the MPW is shown in Chart 1.  Within
the MPW, the Road Construction and Maintenance Department (RCMD) and the Gen-
eral Corporation for Construction and Development (GCCD) are responsible for
highways. With few professional and no technical engineering staff, the role
of the RCMD has been confined to administering construction of roads financed
under bilateral aid. The GCCD, set up in 1970 as the executive arm of the
MPW, is responsible for construction of locally-financed roads and mainte-
nance of the entire network.



3.08      The GCC" is virtually an autonomous organization.  Its chief officer
is a very active civil engineer wtfo once was prime minlster.  Its professional
and technical staff total $ graduate e-gineers, 6 surveyors, and 20 tech-
n1cians of various disciplines. Divisions of the GCCD are established at
Hodeidah, Manakhah, Sana'a, and Taiz.  The divisions use buildings, workshops,
equipment, and facilities handed over to the Government after the roads con-
structed u7nder bilateral aid from the ?RC, TUS and USSR were completed (para.
3.03).
3.- 0:    E 7he '-C3D lacks professional and skilled staff * adequate organiza-
ti.an, office spacs. and equipment for an effective highway organization.
Only occasional and rudimentary highway planning, survey, or design are
carrled out, construction work is not supervised or quality controlled, and
the separate responsibilities for feeder road construction and highway main-
tenance are not clearly established in the organization.  The Government has
,ecaided to establish an efficient Highway Authority along the lines recom-
meaded by SWECO in the IMS. Tne Authority will be responsible for planning,
construct±ng, and maintaining highways and will absorb present RCMD and GCCD
staff.  Tech.nical assistance under the project will be provided to help or-
ganize and operate the Authority (para. 4.07).
D.   Planning and Financian
3.10      highway construction ls ;not carried out according to a highway
development plan.  Decisions to mah:e capital investments in main roads have
been based solely on the availability of foreign aid.  Feeder road construc-
tion is also carried out on an ad hoc basis without an overall plan or con-
videration of economic priorities.  Construction of these roads is normally
initiated through a request to the Government b'y a local development associa-
tion, cooperative societv, or wealthy tribal leader.
3.11     'Under the IFS, a preliminary  highway investment plan was prepared
using limited traffic data and not considering any diverted or agricultural
development traffic.  Although this plan was not based on detailed economic
analysis, it does provilde a 2asis for determining priorities. The Bank/Kuwait
Fund technical assistance team will examine development of the transportation
sector in relation to the formulation of an overall development strategy (para.
2.10). Under the proposed project, feasibllity studies will be made of about
470 ic of the highest priority roads identified under thhe IFS (para. 4.05).
3.12      Virtually all funds for past and present construction of main roads
have been provided by the PRC, US, USSR, and Federal Reoublic of Germany
(para. 3.03), who assumed the entire costs of theIr projects.  Construction
of feeder roads is being financed by the Government through the GCCD and rep-
resentatives of local communities, with Government. participation in the total
cost usually about 50% 'Dut varying between 20%. and 807, depending on the fi-
nancial status of the area concerned. The balance is provided locally. This
system does not ensure that funds will be available for the entire construc-
tion period. Cost estimates are frequently too low and, when construction



-7-
funds are depleted, work is delayed or stopped or maintenance funds are di-
verted to construction. Finance for maintenance of the highway network has
been provided by the Government through the GCCD. Assistance in kind has
been provided by the PRC (experts and some materials) and the USSR (experts)
for the roads they financed. This assistance recently stopped and the Govern-
ment now is responsible for maintaining the entire highway network.
3.13      No national budgets have yet been prepared by the Ministry of Fi-
nance for either FY 1970/71 or FY 1971/72 and funds for the GCCD have been
allocated on a monthly basis. A Highway Planning Board, chaired by the Min-
ister of Public Works and composed of the Minister of the Treasury, General
Director of the GCCD, and Director of Administration and Finance as well as
Chief of Security of the MPW, is responsible for assessing Government contrib-
utions to the GCCD for feeder road construction and highway maintenance. In
1971, the GCCD received about US$1 million for feeder road construction and
about US$200,000 for highway maintenance; the latter amount did not include
the costs of the services provided by the PRC and USSR for maintenance of the
roads they financed (para. 3.12).
3.14      Allocations to the GCCD are not sufficient for annual maintenance
requirements. For adequate maintenance of the existing network, US$600,000-
800,000 is estimated to be required annually. To supplement Government al-
locations, the GCCD has embarked on various enterprises, such as: construc-
ting city streets by contract; selling precast concrete products, oxygen,
concrete, and road aggregates; and renting houses. The amount of additional
funds raised by these activities is unknown. While such enterprises are com-
mendable under the present circumstances, they will have no place in a future
efficient Highway Authority because they divert scarce equipment and skilled
personnel.
3.15      The Government is aware that the present system of feeder road
construction and highway maintenance must be improved and during credit
negotiations, it gave assurances that, with the aid of the technical as-
sistance team under the project, it will determine the appropriate (i) system
of financing feeder road construction; and (ii) level of current and capital
expenditures for highways, taking into account estimated future road user
taxation receipts and needs for other sectors, as recommended by the Bank/
Kuwait Fund team of planning experts.
E.   Engineering
3.16      No detailed highway design work is undertaken by the GCCD (para. 3.09).
For main roads constructed under bilateral aid, designs have been prepared by
the donor countries. The result has been that design standards are extremely
varied. For feeder roads constructed by the GCCD, rudimentary designs re-
lated to alignment selection and typical cross-sections varied to suit the
terrain have been prepared by the GCCD on site, usually just in advance of
construction equipment. The technical assistance team under the project will:
review existing design standards and recommend standards for highway alignment,
geometrics, and pavement and bridge loadings; and establish the capability
for preparing highway designs.



-8-
F.   Construction
3.17      Main roads were financed under bilateral aid from the PRC, US, and
USSR, using locally-recruited labor and imported equipment. These works were
carried out with assistance of experts from the donor countries. Some on-
the-job training for Yemeni staff was carried out on the roads financed by
the PRC and USSR, but a comprehensive training program was conducted on the
US-financed roads by experts from the US Bureau of Public Roads. With equip-
ment and facilities left in Yemen after the roads built by the US and USSR
were completed, in 1971 the GOCD built about 160 km of undesigned and very low
standard feeder roads.
3.18      The Taiz-Sana'a Road is currently being asphalt-surfaced and im-
proved with finance provided by the Federal Republic of Germany. A joint
venture of contractors from the Federal Republic of Germany and UK was
awarded the contract after international competitive bidding. A consulting
firm from the Federal Republic of Germany is supervising the work.
3.19      Apart from small contract works for earthworks and asphalt paving
of the Taiz airport runway and parking area, domestic contractors have not
been involved in highway construction. Four Yemeni contractors are present-
ly operating, of which two are general civil works contractors and two are
building contractors. Their financial and equipment resources are adequate
for subcontract work on highways and construction of buildings and minor
irrigation works. However, they lack experienced technical staff and admin-
istrative and organizational skills. The technical assistance team under the
project will have a contracting expert available for a short period to advise
domestic contractors on preparing contract bids, organizing and administering
road contracts, cost accounting, and using and maintaining their equipment.
During credit negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will
coordinate the work of the expert and use his services efficiently.
G. Maintenance
3.20      The GCCD is responsible for maintaining the highway network.  Be-
cause funds are inadequate, maintenance is confined almost entirely to main
roads and only occasionally to feeder roads. Maintenance operations are not
planned and programs for routine and periodic maintenance do not exist. The
main workshops are at Hodeidah, Sana'a, and Taiz, and smaller shops are at
Bajjil, Damar, Hais, and Ibb. The workshops and equipment at Hodeidah and
Taiz are adequate, but funds, senior staff, skilled opetators, and mechanics
are inadequate. Of the equipment available in the country, one-third is not
operational. This is because spare parts are lacking, existing workshop fa-
cilities are not used or are used inefficiently, and maintenance and repair
programs for equipment are not organized. Maintenance is further adversely
affected by diversion of equipment to feeder road construction.
3.21      The UNDP and International Labour Organisation (ILO) are current-
ly conducting a Vocational Training Program at Taiz. The program includes



-9-
training of highway maintenance personnel. Over 3 years about 40 mechan-
ics, equipment operators, and warehousemen will be trained specifically in
maintenance, repair, and use of heavy maintenance equipment and in stores
procedures. In addition, on-the-job training will be provided by the tech-
nical assistance team under the project.
3.22      The Government is aware that the present system of planning and
carrying out highway maintenance must be improved and wants to enlist the
aid of the technical assistance team under the project for this purpose
(para. 3.15). During credit negotiations, the Government gave assurances
that, with the aid of the technical assistance team under the project, it will
formulate realistic programs of routine and periodic maintenance satisfactory
to the Association and take the necessary steps, including provision of
funds, to implement them.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   Description
4.01      The project consists of:
(i) construction of a secondary road between Taiz and
Turba (about 69 km) and supervision of construction
by consultants;
(ii) feasibility studies of about 470 km of three high
priority roads and detailed engineering of about
260 km of these roads by consultants;
(iii) technical assistance by consultants to organize and
operate a Highway Authority in the MPW;
(iv) purchases of equipment for feeder road construction
and highway maintenance, spare parts for existing
highway maintenance equipment, and engineering and
materials testing equipment for the new Highway
Authority; and
(v) training abroad for staff of the new Highway Authority.
4.02      Consultants for items (i), (ii), and (iii) will be retained from out-
nide Yemen. During credit negotiations, the terms of reference for the con-
sulting services were discussed and agreed by the Association and the Govern-
ment. A condition of credit effectiveness is employment of consultants for
item (iii).



- 10 -
(a) Construction and Supervision of the Taiz-Turba Road
4.03      The existing track is the only route in southern Taiz Province link-
ing the main marketing center at Taiz with the important agricultural center
at Turba. The track passes through terrain which is flat (35%), hilly (58%),
and mountainous (7%). With financial assistance from the United States Agency
for International Development (US A.I.D.), the original track was upgraded in
1967. But it still lacks bridges, culverts, and surfacing, and has deteri-
orated since upgrading due to lack of maintenance. Under the proposed proj-
ect, the road will be constructed with a double bituminous surface treatment.
The alignment of the road will follow that of the existing track, except for
improvements to horizontal alignment where necessary. Streams will be crossed
by raised fords and culverts. Design standards for the road, shown in Table
3, are satisfactory for the projected traffic.
4.04      The UNDP agreed to amend the original scope of the IFS to include,
for the Taiz-Turba Road, completion of the preliminary feasibility study and
preparation of detailed engineering, bidding documents, and construction cost
estimates. SWECO has substantially completed detailed engineering and is
currently preparing contract drawings and documents.
(b) Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering
4.05      Feasibility studies will be made of three roads (about 470 km)
identified as high pr4ority in the IFS and agreed during credit negotiations
by the Association and the Government.  The roads, described in Annex A,
provide access to agricultural areas and links to markets.
4.06      About 260 km of the highest priority roads resulting from the
feasibility studies will be selected for detailed engineering and prepara-
tion of bidding documents. These roads could be the basis of projects suit-
able for further lending by external agencies.
(c) Technical Assistance for A Highway Authority
4.07      The Government has decided to develop an efficient Highway Author-
ity, along the lines shown in Chart 2, and to appoint a Director, in consulta-
tion with the Association.  During credit negotiations, the Government proposed,
and the Association agreed, that the present chief officer of the GCCD should
be appointed as the firectot  of the new Highway Authority.  Technical assis-
tance to organize and operate the Authority is itcluded under the proposed
project, as described in Annex B. It will include on-the-job training of
staff, supplemented by the t9fP/ILO Vocational Ttaining Program (para. 3.21).
During credit negotiationss, the nuiibet of foteign experts to be appointed in
an executive capacity and their respoisibilities were discussed and agreed.
The Association will review the progress of the technical assistance before
the end of the 3-year assignment of the team to determine whether and in what
form any further technical assistance is required and could be provided.
Because the new Highway Authority will be respOnsible fot executing the
proposed project (para. 4.14), a condition of credit effectiveness is legal
establishment of the Highway Authority in the MPW along the lines recommended
by the IFS.



(d) Purchases of Equipment for Feeder Road Construction and Highway
Maintenance, Spare Parts for Existing Maintenance Equipment,
and Engineering and Materials Testing Equipment
4.08      About one-third of the available equipment for feeder road construction
and highway maintenance in Yemen is out of order. The equipment is about
8 years old, but its operating time has been low. Some could be rehabilitated
if spare parts were purchased or acquired from unrepairable units, so the
project includes US$300,000 for these purchases. In addition, new equipment
is required to bring the existing construction and maintenance equipment up
to the standard needed to carry out the feeder road construction program and
to maintain the existing higlhway network. The project includes US$740,000
for purchases of new equipment. The items to be purchased will be identi-
fied by the Government, with the aid of the technical assistance team, and
purchases will be made on the basis of a detailed list to be agreed between
the Association and the Government.
4.09      Lack of survey, design, drawing, and materials testing equipment at
all GCCD Divisions and inadequate office space at the GCCD Division at Sana'a
seriously inhibit efficient highway operations. The GCCD Divisions at Hodeidah
and Taiz have some soils, concrete, and asphalt testing equipment, but they
need repair or replacement. The Government has asked the Association to help
in providing special equipment for the Materials and Testing Division and the
Survey Design Specifications Division in the new Highway Authority. The
equipment consists of (i) theodolites, levels, and related survey equipment;
(ii) drawing equipment; and (iii) soils, concrete, and asphalt testing equip-
ment, including sub-surface investigation equipment. The technical assistance
team under the project will review available equipment and identify in detail
the additional equipment requirements. Adequate headquarters space at Sana 's
will be provided in a building currently being constructed and scheduled to
be completed by mid-1972.
(e) Training Abroad
4.10      Most training of suitable Yemeni counterpart staff for the new
Highway Authority will be carried out on-the-job by the technical assis-
tance team. This training will be supplemented by the UNDP/ILO Vocational
Training Program at Taiz (para. 3.21). Because of the acute shortage of
professional and skilled staff and the need to provide suitable counterpart
staff for the technical assistance team under the project, training abroad
will be kept to a minimum. Three trainees will be sent abroad for 6-months.
The technical assistance team will assist the Government in identifying
training needs, preparing training programs, and selecting suitable candidates.
During credit negotiations, the Government gave an assurance that it will
arrange to retain in Government service Highway Authority staff who are
trained abroad.



- 12 -
B.   Cost Estimates and Foreign Exchange Component
4.11      The project cost, including contingencies but net of taxes (para.
4.17), is estimated at US$8.6 million. The foreign exchange component is
US$6.7 million and the local component about US$1.9 million. Detailed costs
are shown in the table on page 13.
4.12      Cost estimates for construction of the Taiz-Turba Road were pre-
pared by SWECO based on substantially completed detailed engineering. The
costs of consulting services for the feasibility studies, detailed engineer-
ing, and technical assistance are based on estimated man-months required and
on costs of similar services in countries with generally the same local condi-
tions as Yemen. The amount allocated to equipment for feeder road construc-
tion and highway maintenance is based on a preliminary list of requirements
and will be adjusted after the Government and technical assistance team have
identified specific items. The cost of needed spare parts for maintenance
equipment was estimated by SWECO. The costs of the engineering and materials
testing equipment were estimated by the Association. The estimated cost of
training abroad for staff of the new Highway Authority is based on 6-months
of training for three trainees. No physical or price contingency allowances
were applied to the equipment purchases because the amount estimated is only
tentative. A 10% physical contingency allowance is considered adequate for
all other items under the project. Contingency allowances for price are:
12% on construction to allow for price increases from the expected date of
tender to completion of construction, and 7.5% on spare parts to allow for
price increases of about 5% p.a. in both local and foreign costs over 18
months. In view of limited available data on contracting operations in Yemen,
a 20% contingency allowance for uncertainties regarding road construction
costs is considered prudent.
4.13      The foreign exchange component of the road construction element of
the project was calculated by SWECO at 70%. This is considered reasonable.
For the consulting services, the foreign exchange component was based on the
cost of salaries, transportation, equipment, and major imported subsistence
elements for the foreign experts. The foreign exchange component for spare
parts and equipment is based on the cif landed cost, Hodeidah. For the
training abroad, the foreign exchange component covers expenditures on trans-
portation, subsistence, and fees.
C.   Execution
4.14      The new Highway Authority of the MPW, aided by the technical
assistance team, will be responsible for execution of the project. The
civil works contract will be awarded after international competitive bidding
according to Bank Group Guidelines for Procurement. Domestic contractors are
not sufficiently developed to undertake the civil works (para. 3.19), but
they are expected to participate as subcontractors on works such as drainage
and haulage. International contractors are currently operating in Yemen and
in nearby countries, and it is expected that they will be interested in bid-
ding for the civil works in Yemen. Force account is not suitable because pro-
fessional and skilled staff as well as serviceable construction equipment



-13-
Foreign
YR1a (thousands)        US$ (thousands)    Exchange
Project Elements     Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign Total  Component
I.  Construction         4,725  11,275   16,000    945  2,2S5  3.200       70
II.  Supervision
of I.                  250   1,000    1.250      50    200    250      80
III.  Feasibility
studies and
detailed engi-       1
neering                  5    ,47      6,850     275 1>095  1,70 80
IV.  Technical
Assistance              775   4,375    5,150    155    875  1,030      85
Se Construction
and Maintenance
Equipment            ,2       3,500    3,700     40    700    740      95
VI.  Spare parts             75   1,425    1,500      15    285    300      95
VII. Engineering and
Materials Testing
Equipment               25      350      375      5 -      
VIII.  Training Abroad          25      75       100      5     15     20     75
IX.  Contingency
Allowances
a) On item I         1,975   4,700    6,675    395    940  1,335
b) On items
II-IV., Vi;,
and VItI _/         250   1,100    1,350      50    220    270
c) On item VI           25      225      250      5     45      50
8ub-total IX      2,250   6,025    8,275    450  1,205  1,655
Total Pro-
ject Cost         9,700  33,500   43,200  1.940  6,700  8,640
1/ 42%s 10% physical, 12% price, and 20% uncertainties.
2/ 10% physical.
3/ 17.5%t 10% physical and 7.5% price.



- 14 -
are insufficient and because expansion of the capacity of the new Highway
Authority to construct feeder eoads aid to mtaintain the highway network ade-
quately would absorb all available resources.
4.15      The construction and maintenance equipment will be purchased after
international competitive bidding according to Bank Group Guidelines for Pro-
curement.  The spare parts for the existing maintenance equipment are tied to
manufacturers and will be purchased after obtaining quotations from selected
suppliers. The estimated costs of the engineering and materials testing equip-
ment are not sufficient to justify international competitive bidding, and they
will be purchased after obtaining quotations from selected manufacturers.
4.16      The civil works contract is expected to be awarded in early 1973, and
construction should be completed by early 1975. The technical assistance team
should arrive by the end of 1972. Feasibility studies also should begin
about that time and be completed by mid-1973. Orders for construction and
maintenance equipment, spare parts for existing maintenance equipment, and
engineering and materials testing equipment will probably be placed in mid-
1973. Staff selected for training abroad will begin their studies in mid-1973
and finish by the end of 1973 or early 1974.
4.17      Yemen is a member of the Arab Common Market and applies preferen-
tial tariffs to imports from member countries. However, Yemen waives import
duties and taxes for development projects and, in line with this policy, the
Government will waive all these charges on goods and services under the
project.
4.18      Few statistics are available on the economically active population
and none on unemployment. The project road is located in an area of great
agricultural potential, part of which is extensively cultivated. Most labor
in the region appears to be engaged in agriculture. Current extension serv-
ices should increase production and absorb additional labor. Also, labor
from the influence area of the road em1igrates to neighboring countries where
wages are considerably higher than in Yemen, thus reducing the available
labor force. For these reasons, as well as the increasing volume of civil
works in Yemen, labor-intenuive construction of the project road is con-
sidered impracticable.
4.19      Land required for road constructiot is expropriated by the Govern-
ment without compensation, except when crops are damaged or buildings demol-
ished.  The Government will not chahge this policy for the Taiz-Turba Road.
However, if it were to compensate lantdowners, the costs would be insignifi-
cant because the new alignment will generally follow the existing track and
diversions will be minor.  No problems are expected to arise concerning
timely availability of the right-of-way for the project.



- 15 -
D.   Financing
4.20      The proposed credit of US$7.7 million will finance the foreign ex-
change costs and 50% of the local costs of the project. The balance of the
local costs, about US$900,000 or 11% of the project cost, will be provided
by Yemen. The Kuwait Fund has agreed in principle to provide a loan of up
to US$800,000 on soft terms to assist the Government in financing its con-
tribution to the project. To ensure that a timely allocation is made for
payments to contractors and consultants, a Project Revolving Fund will be
established by the Government. Deposits into the Fund will be made accord-
ing to the scheduled progress of the project. The amount in the Fund will
be sufficient to meet about 2 months' estimated average payments from the
Government's contribution. A condition of credit effectiveness is establish-
ment of the Project Revolving Fund.
E.   Disbursements
4.21      Disbursements from the Credit Account will be on the basis of:  85%
of the cost of the construction; 90% of the cost of the consulting services;
100% of the foreign cost of the training abroad; and the cif landed costs
of imported construction and maintenance equipment, spare parts for existing
maintenance equipment, and engineering and materials testing equipment. Funds
to purchase the construction and maintenance equipment will be disbursed
according to the list of items agreed between the Association and the Government.
Based on the foregoing and on the schedule of project execution in para. 4.16,
an Estimated Schedule of Disbursements has been prepared. The Schedule, shown
in Annex C, was reviewed during credit negotiations. Surplus funds remain-
ing in the Credit Account after completion of the project will be cancelled.
V.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   The Taiz-Turba Road
5.01      Construction of the project road will result in an improved link
for the movement of goods and passengers between the main marketing center
at Taiz and the important agricultural center of Turba. The present track
is rough, following stream beds in several places, and vehicle operating
costs are high. The track passes through numerous valleys, the largest ly-
ing between the villages of Misrakh and Youfrus. The valleys are fertile
and irrigated by permanent surface flow and swampy depressions. This is
considered to be one of the more promising areas in the agriculturally-rich
Taiz Province for production of agricultural surpluses. It is one of the
most important coffee producing areas in Yemen and also produces cereals,
fruits, vegetables, and green fodder. The Food and Agriculture Organization
(FAO) has established an agricultural demonstration project in the area and
has indicated that agricultural production could be increased as much as
threefold by proper fertilization and plant protection methods.



- 16 -
5.02      It is difficult to forecast traffic accurately due to lack of trend
data (para. 3.04). However, some indication does exist of the effect on
traffic of a past upgrading of the Taiz-Turba track. In December 1967, before
the old track was upgraded by US A.I.D., Average Daily Traffic (ADT) of 140
was estimated. One year later, after upgrading, the ADT was 224 (about a
60% increase). Since then, little, if any, maintenance has been carried out
and the track has deteriorated seriously. As a result, vehicle operating
costs (VOC) have increased significantly and this has affected the volume
of traffic, which has virtually remained the same although agricultural pro-
duction in the area has continued to expand. On the basis of counts taken
by SWECO, ADT for 1972 was estimated at 213. According to these counts, 94%
of the traffic was jeeps, pickups, and cars and 6% buses and trucks. NorLmal
traffic is conservatively estimated to increase until 1975, when the road
is to be opened, at a rate of 7% p.a. on the assumption that the Government
will carry out minimum maintenance of the track and that agricultural pro-
duction will expand following the FAO agricultural project introduced in
1971. Based on experience in 1967/68, additional traffic, corresponding to
40% of the normal traffic, is estimated to be generated in 1975 when the new
road will be opened. Both normal and generated traffic are estimated to
grow at 7% p.a. until 1985, declining to 4.5% p.a. thereafter. The traffic
projection furthermore assumes that by 1985 the composition of total traffic
on the new road will be in line with the current traffic mix on other im-
proved and paved roads in Yemen, that is 65% jeeps, pickups and cars and 35%
buses and trucks. Table 5 shows the figures on which these estimates are
based.
5.03      For the existing track, SWECO estimated VOC for jeeps, pickups,
and cars at US$0.09/km; for 4-6 ton buses and trucks, US$0.23/km; and for
8-10 ton trucks, US$0.31/km. For the new roads, SWECO estimated these costs,
respectively, at US$0.04/km, US$0.09/km, and US$0.12/km, with resulting re-
spective savings per kilometer of US$0.05 (56%) and US$0.14 and US$0.19 (61%).
B.   Benefits from the Project
5.04      The benefits from the proposed road construction are VOC savings on
normal and generated traffic.  FAO has estimated that agricultural product:_n
in the influence area of the road could be tripled. The new road will provide
better and easier communications; it may, thereby, influence the farmers to
accept new production methods more quickly, with the result that production
would increase more rapidly than anticipated and reflected in the estimated
traffic growth rates. This has not been estimated and the quantified bene-
fits are thus conservative.
5.05      Based on the most probable available estimates of benefits and
costs, including a 20% contingency allowance for uncertainties (Table 6t),
the most likely Internal Economic Return (IER) is 17%. First Year Benefits
are 13%I, indicating that the timing is appropriate.  A sensitivity analysis
was made of the IER by postulating 15% increases and decreases in construc--
tion costs as well as 25% increases and decreases in benefits. The results,



- 17 -
shown in Table 7, Indicate that in the most pessimistic combination of cir-
cumstances the IER would be 11% and in the most optimistic 23%. This con-
firms that the project is justified.
5.06      Benefits were not quantified for the:  investments in feasibility
studies; detailed engineering; purchases of highway construction and mainte-
nance equipment, spare parts for existing highway maintenance equipment, and
engineering and materials testing equipment; technical assistance; and train-
ing abroad. These investments are justified based on the discussions in
Chapter IV.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During credit negotiations, the Government gave principal assur-
ances that it will:
(i) with the aid of the technical assistance team under the
project:
(a) review and, if necessary, amend current legislation
regarding vehicle registration, licensing, and
weight and dimension regulations; formulate and
enact any necessary additional legislation; and
take the necessary steps to enforce the legisla-
tion (para. 3.06);
(b) determine the appropriate system of financing feeder
road construction and level of current and capital
expenditures for highways (para. 3.15);
(c) formulate realistic programs of routine and periodic
maintenance satisfactory to the Association and take
the necessary steps, including provision of funds,
to implement them (para. 3.22); and
(ii) provide adequate funds for the project as well as establish
and operate the Project Revolving Fund (para. 4.20).
6.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness are:
(i)  employment of consultants for technical assistance to
the new Highway Authority (para. 4.02);
(ii)  legal establishment of the Highway Authority in the MPW
along the lines recommended by the IFS (para. 4.07); and
(iii) establishment of a Pr6ject Revolving Fund (para. 4.20).
6.03      Subject to agreement on the foregoing, the Association recommends
that a credit of US$7.7 million should be made to the Government of Yemen
on the usual terms.






TABLE!;
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
YEMEN RAB REPUBLIC
Construction and Imirovement of Roads and Tracks ander Bilateral Aid
Construction                                      Type of           Bilateral Aid
Period        Road or Track           Length  Surface        Donor           Wo=nt
(MmS)                             (US$ Th2l.on
equiLvalent)
195 761    Sana'a-Hodeidah Road        226   Bitum4nous       PRC              1: * 
Penetration
Macadam
1961-66    Mocha-Taiz-Sanala Road      366 )
do       Taiz-Turba Track             70 5 Gravel           US A.I.D.        20,0
do       Taiz-Rahida Track            60 )
1966-70    Hodeidah-Taiz Road          191   Bituminous       USSR             n.a.
Penetration
Macadam
2/
196h-      Sana'a-Saadah Road                     do          PRC              n*a.
1971-      Taiz-Sana'a Road            256   Asphaltic        Federal
Concrete        Republic of
Germany
1/ This road was included in a loan of US$72.4 million which also covered schools,
hospitals, a cement factory, and the Wadi Sordud Agricultural Development Prcv,ev ta
2/ About 30% comsplete.
3/ This road was included in a loan of US$28 million which also covered a textile
factory at Sana'a, a technical school,and a hospital.
h  The contractor began mobilizing at the construction site at the end of December
1971.
5/ Calculated at an exchange rate of II4 1 - US$0.31.
Source: Mission compilation, January 1972
June 5, 1972



TABLE 2
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Registered Motor Vehicles, by Province, December 1970
(Units)
Fr-wheel Vehicles                                  Provincial
Province 1/   Trucks    Taxis    Cars        Total      Motorcycles      Total    %
Sana'a         1,755        691    177       2,623         2,100         4,723    50
Hodeidah         940        400    274       1,614           870         2,48)    26
Taiz             149     1,128    254        1,531           200         1,731    18
Ibb              150       397      18         565            M            585      6
Total        2,994     2,616    723        6,333         3,190         9,523   100
% of Total      31        27       8          66            34                 100
1/ Statistics are available for only four provinces.
Source: Statistical Yearbook 1971 of the Yemen Arab Republic, September 1971
June 5, 1972



TABLE 3
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
YENMN ARAB REPUBIC
Design Standards for Taiz-Turba Road
Terrain
Unit    Flat   HMountainous
Geometric Design Standards
Speed                         km/h
Normal                               100       60        30
Minimi                                 -       30        20
Horizontal Radius              m
Normal                               700      100        35
Minimum                                -       35        20
Gradient                        %
Normal                                 3        5         9
madximm                                -        7        12
Roadway Features
Width                           m
Total Roadway                          9.0      7.5       6.o
Pavement                               6.0      6.0       5.5
- - - - - - - - - - - -
Pavement Type                          Double bituminous sur-
face treatment
Sources SWECO, Investment Feasibility Study for Roads, March 1972
June 5, 1972



TABLE 1
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Equipment Urgently Requiring Spare Parts: Cost Summary
(US$)
Costs
type of Equipment                                     cif Landed
Bulldozers
Caterpillar D7 @ 70,000       )
Caterpillar D8 @ 60,000       )                       130,000
Dumptruck, Auto-Car DC-102                               25,000
Graders
Caterpillar 14-D @ 37,000    )
Galion 118-G @ 5,000          )
Galion 303 @ 11,000           )
Galion 450 @ 2,000            )55,000
Pickups
Chevrolet 1/2 ton @ 1,000    )
Chevrolet 3/4 ton @ 5,000    )                          6,000
Powerplant, Caterpillar D-379                             9,000
Station Wagon, Willys Wagonser                            6,500
Traxcavator, Caterpillar 944                             10,000
Miscellaneous
Batteries (different sizes)
Tires and Tubes (different sizes)                      43,500
Sub-total                                             285,000
Local
Port handling, local transport, and
installation:!:                                        15,1000
Total                                                 3°0a°OO
1/ Import duties to be waived by Government.
Source: SWGOO, Investment Feasibility Study for Roads, December 1971
June 5, 1972



TABLE 5
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Average Daily TraffiC (AL)T) on Taiz-Turba Road, 1972-9~
(Number of vehicles)
Traffic                      1972       1975      1980       1985      1994
Normal
1/!
Cars and Pickups              200        225       307        418       621
Buses and Trucks               13         37        60         97       144
Total                                    27b 327               15       765
Generated
Cars and Pickups                0         50        51         52        79
Buses and Trucks                0         55 /      96        155       229
Total                         __          -17 7
Total
1/
Cars and Pickups              200        275       358        470        700
Buses and Trucks               13         92       156        252       375
Total                          _         _7        5T         77  2
Annual Growth Rates (%)
Normal                               7         7          7       4-5
Generated                           n,a.       7          7       4.S
1/ Includes jeeps.
/ ProJected at 40% of normal traffic in the opening year, 1975.
3/ Assumes normal traffic mix by 1985 or 65% cars, jeeps, and pickups and
35% buses and trucks.
Note: n.a. means not applicable.
3ources  SWECO, Investment Feasibility Stud2 for Roads, Decembe  1971 and
Mission Estimates, May 1972.
June 5, 1972



TABIE 6
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
ThMIN ARAB REPUBLIC
Estimated Benefits and Costa for Construction of Taiz-Turba Road, 1972-94
(uss thousand7
Benefits                           Costs
Engineering,
Construction                      Net
Normal     Generated                  and                         Benefits
Year    Traffic    Traffic       Total   Supervisiorf      Maintenance    (Costs)
1972         0          0            0         175              0            (175)
1973         0          0           0        1,41o              0          (1,410)
1974         0          0            0       2,610              0          (2,610)
1975 2/    452        143          595         415              0             180
1976       487        157         644            0             28             616
1977       524        172         696            0             28             668
1978       564        188         752            0             28             724
1979       606        206          812           0            238             574
1980       654        225         879            0             28             851
1981       704        245          949           0             28             921
1982       758        267       1,025            0             28             997
1983       817        290       1,107            0             28           1,079
1984       879        316       1,195            0            238             957
1985       948        343       1,291            0             28           1,263
1986       993        359       1,352            0             28           1,324
1987     1,040        375       1,415            0             28           1,387
1988     1,090        392       1,482            0             28           1,454
1989     1,143        409       1,552            0            238           1,314
1990     1,198        427       1,625            0             28           1,597
1991     1,255        447       1,702            0             28           1,674
1992     1,315        467       1,782            0             28           1,754
1993     1,378        488       1,866            0             28           1,838
1994     1,442        508       1,950            0            238           1,712
1/ Includes 10% physical and 20% uncertainty contingency allowances on conatruction
cost estimate, No contingency allowance is provided for price escalation or
right-of-way acquisition.
2/ The entire road will be campleted in 1975, which will be the first year of
traffic benefits.
Source: Mission Estimates, May 1972
June 5, 1972



TABLE 7
APPRAI.SAL OF
A HIGI"AY PROJECT
YEMN ARAB REPUJBLIC
Rates of Return for Construction of Taiz-Turba Road
Assumptions                               Rates of Return
Best Estimate of Construction Costs, and
Most likely value of benefits                            17
25% increase in benefits                                 21
25% decrease in benefits                                 13
Assumed Increase in Construction Costs (15%), and
Most likely value of benefits                            15
25% increase in benefits                                 19
25% decrease in benefits                                 11
Assumed Decrease in Construction Costs (15%). and
Most likely value of benefits                            19
25% increase in benefits                                 23
25% decrease in benefits                                 15
Source: Mission Estimates, May 1972
June 5, 1972






ANNEX A
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Roads Included for Feasibility Studies
Taiz - Hais (80 km)
1.        As a proposed diversion to the present Taiz - Km 64 - Hodeidah
route, a section of the road given highest priority by SWECO, an improved
road would reduce the distance between Taiz and Hais by some 40 km. The
existing Taiz - Km 64 section is a poor gravel road, with Average Daily
Traffic of 240, according to counts by SWECO. The improved road would re-
sult in lower vehicle operating costs and reduced distance between the two
towns. SWECO calculated the highest Internal Economic Return (IER) for
improvement on this road, however, it did not check the possibility of
diversion from the present alignment to Hais and hence to Hodeidah, which
would substantially increase the benefits.
Damar - Radaa - Al Beida (180 km)
2.        The proposed road would connect the provincial capitals of Al Beida
and Radaa in eastern Yemen with the main road between Taiz and Sana'a at
Damar.  About 350,000 people inhabit the influence area.  Because roads have
been lacking, agricultural production has been primarily at a subsistence
level (cereals and vegetables) although some coffee has been grown for export.
The proposed road would allow the area, reported to have fertile soils as well
as deep groundwater reservoirs around Radaa, to realize its agricultural po-
tential. SWECO calculated a high IER for the road.
Yerim - Rehab - Madinat Al Abid -  Baijil (170 km)
and its alternate section Mabar - Anis Duran - Madinat Al Abid - Bajjil (40 km)
3.        The existing road and its alternate are located in the Central
Highlands. Construction of either road would link a densely populated
and highly fertile agricultural area, where coffee, cereals, fruits and
vegetables are grown, to the important towns of Yerim and Mabar (on the
Sana'a-Taiz Road), Bajjil, and the port of Hodeidah. The proposed road
also would provide a shorter route for agricultural surpluses to the port
of Hodeidah and promote increased exports. The Association considers this
to be one of the more important east-west secondary road links in Yemen.
The area is part of the Agricultural Development Project sponsored by the
Food and Agriculture Organization, whose second phase (production) will begin
in 1972.



ANNEX B
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Technical Assistance to Organize
and Operate a Highway Authority
1.        Technical assistance under the proposed project will help the
Government organize and operate a new Highway Authority in the Ministry
of Public Works and provide on-the-job training for Yemeni staff.
2.        Three highway engineers, one administrative and accounting ex-
pert, and three workshop supervisors will be employed for about 3 years to
work in the new Highway Authority in an operational executive capacity.
They will advise and assist in:
(a) administrative procedures for the Highway Authority,
including staffing, budgeting, accounting, and cost
control operations;
(b) highway planning (including survey design and specifica-
tions), traffic counting, data collection and interpreta-
tion, design standards, and design office organization;
(c) site investigation, laboratory testing of construction
materials, and quality control of construction;
(d) organization and improved techniques for force account
construction of low-class rural roads;
(e) preparation of a highway maintenance program and estab-
lishment of a highway maintenance division; and
(f) management of highway construction and maintenance equipment,
together with organization and operations of workshops to
repair and service equipment.
3.        Two experts in heavy equipment operations and contract operations,
respectively, will be engaged for a short period. The equipment expert will
advise on ways to improve the efficiency of the force account teams construct-
ing low-class rural roads. The contract operations expert will advise domestic
contractors on preparing bids, organizing and administering road contracts,
cost accounting, and using and maintaining their equipment.



ANNEX C
APPRAISAL OF
A HIGHWAY PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLTC
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD/IDA Fiscal Year                             Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                      at end of Quarter
(US$ thousand)
1972/73
December 31, 1972                                          50
March 31, 1973                                           350
June 30, 1973                                          1,290
1973/74
September 30, 1973                                     2,^00
December 31, 1973                                      2,820
March 31, 1974                                         3,620
June 30, 197                                           4,520
1974/75
September 30, 1974                                     5,270
December 31, 1974                                      6,070
March 31, 1975                                         6,890
June 30, 1975                                          7,670
1975/76
September 30, 1975                                     7,700
Sources Miasion Estimates, May 1972
June 5, 1972






CHART 1
APPRAI$SAL OF A HIGHWAY PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
EXISTING ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS
MINISTER OF PUBLIC WORKS
IDEPUTY MINTER
HARBORS          ROAD CONSTRUCTION         ADMINISTRATION      WATER SUPPLY
AND MAINTENANCE           AND FINANCE       AND IRRIGATION
PLANNING BOARD
GENERAL CORPORATION
FOR CONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
|SECRETAR IAT
FINANCE               ADMINISTRATION           PUBLIC RELATIO                SECURITY
SANA'A DIVISION           TAIZ DIVISION            HODEIDAH DIVISION         MANAKHA DIVISION
SOURCE: SWEDISH CONSULTING GROUP (SEPTEMBER I 971)
NOVEMBER 1 971                                                                World Bank 6229(2R)






CHART 2
APPRAISAL OF A HIGHWAY PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION FOR THE HIGHWAY AUTHORITY
OF THE MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS
PRIME MINISTER
MINISTER OF
PUSLIC WORKS
,,,,,,,..a. I,.M,,,l,,...m...mm.  ,,  PLANNIN  BOARD_
DIRECTOR-GENERAL
PUBLIC WORKS
GADM NISTRATION 
H EERA, A~CCOUI,TIC
I_                            I                           t                                                                    WOIRRSHOP A 
BUILDIGNS                AIRPOR S                  HIGHAY                     PORTS  MT UNICIPALITI                  |    |   WRKUIPT0AM
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PARTMECT5                                            -                   51Rt   
D_PARTME               EPARTMENT                                         DEP ARMTEPARTMENT                                    E PE
DISRECTO                NDISTRICTS                 DISTRICTS
UPER_S WAN                          MAINTEN~~~SUCIAN.             FIDEAI
.ISTRI~ ~ ~~DISRICTS                        DISTRICTS
;      SADAAH                  SADAAH                    SADA'AH
------ DEPARTMENTS AND REGIONAL DIVISIONS                                          DISTRICTS                DISTRICTS                 DISTRICTS
THAT WILL NOT BE ESTABLISHED IMMEDIATELY.
SOURCE, MISSION AND SWEDISH CONSULTING GROUP (SEPTEMBER 1971)
NOVEMBER 1 971                                                                                                                                            World 8-k-6228(2r






T E   , r r T                                                      44-                                                                            40
;,~w2 Tr,,    ErJ7.LJ,,A       , t    I R ^ N   S A   U  D  I   A  R  A  B  I A
-555 s  39 w^|t                       \                                                            YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
At.Tr  turtAl lf                                           Ohe Dre,,                                           HIGHWAY   NETWORK
VtT4ETrAAAAAEP  ,                                                                                      Primary roads
S U   l   -i  ,"                                   X. \ _ _    ,-J1                                       P r hmary roods under construction
S D ~    ~                                                                                                  -~ Other roads and trocks
4 ~5AeAUr-    Sue                   (                                >                                 9    }PROJECT  ROADS
rrETTIAP   {  ,s                       4   $   A    gX  gB    K                          -                    Construction
<~~~~~~~~~I1 U ~~~~~~Feasibility  study
elg\               <l50WS   tU  gsoo~~~(1dol,                                      ........-
~  0                                             '--.-c   Wadi or river
A\ <                          (a            r           -r \ s -   -.-International boundories
r-,OO-.~,Contours in meters
*     Capitol
/        .  .        .. VI-                                       0    Cities, towns and  i lloges
3  Her 4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.      I                           ......Provincial boundaries
aMn           i....                                                                     , .  5   * \2 | X /Airport, International
od'                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~           ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ruh E Khta/iN
01020304050               ~~~~~~~~100
a ~  ~      ~      ~      *11~1~                     4Ho4'                 REPUBLIC 0,    J Y     M1                    11 E  N  A       AB
)   I /  lGO &   D  X  lt A>\  {SH+1 X        ~~~R  E  P  U   B  L  I C                        'I  l1 03o  I05           o
0       0    20   30   40   50   60
M  ( i Th~I~l  . .. M.                                                              tou rder,   Urde n.ed
<SOt                ,..            e?  Dere 76o '                            v                             ob
I Rd 4dh
>>                    I    \ t    > i <~~~~~~~ j    PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OtO  SAN                                                         N    O   .A,friATS
<               %> t        < o b o|_ _                             \                         X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Hb
14P~~~~~~~~~~~4
FEBUAR    9\                                                                                                                                                               tOO< 3674
A,!tr~~~~~~~~~~~~di                                                                                  Bt                                    14-l
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H rK 80UN3ES SHOWN4 Ot. Te35 MAP 00 NOT
\->~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ML ,                         Ft  NOORTbENT OR AiCCEP?TANC E SY THE
\ ~       ~~~~~~~ GoL  /                                                    .3bANK AND 4TS AFFII,ATES,
FEBRUARY  1972                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 3674



