CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 315 YAR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Project)
BETWEEN
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 26, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 315 YAR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Project)
BETWEEN
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 26, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 26, 1972, between YEMEN ARAB
REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02 (h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02 (i) into 6.02 (h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Highway Authority" means the Highway Authority to be established
by the Borrower, and to be organized and operated under the Project; and
(b)   "Technical Assistance Team" means the consultants to be employed
to assist the Borrower in the organization and operation of the Highway Authority
and in the provision of on-the-job training for Yemeni staff.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million seven hundred thousand
dollars ($7,700,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,


﻿4
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services requireu for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit (other than services of consultants) shall be prc.ured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, and in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1976 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the AssociaLlon a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%r) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 15
and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing
July 15, 1982 and ending January 15, 2022, each installment to and including
the installment payable on January 15, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Highway
Authority with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound


﻿5
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts B through
G of the Project, the Borrower shall, or shall cause the Highway Authority to,
employ suitably qualified and experienced engineering and management consultants
acceptable to the Borrower and the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
or cause to be employed contractors acceptable to the Borrower and the Association
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and f.' such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's accredited representatives to inspect
the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall


﻿6
be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after such acquisition and upon request, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause the road included in Part A of the
Project to be constructed in accordance with the design standards set out in the
Annex to Schedule 2 hereto, said Annex being subject to modification by agreement
between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.08. The roads which are economically justified and are to be
included in Part D of the Project for detailed engineering shall be agreed by the
Borrower and the Association promptly after the feasibility studies are completed.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall establish and maintain a project revolving
fund and shall deposit into said fund in accordance with the scheduled progress
of the Project amounts in local currency sufficient at any time to meet the
Borrower's portion of payments for at least 2 months' estimated average local
expenditures.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall, by March 31, 1973 or such other date
as the Borrower and the Association shall agree, send to the Association, for
agreement, a list prepared with the assistance of the Technical Assistance Team
of road construction and maintenance equipment, engineering and testing
equipment and spare parts to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall, with the aid of the Technical Assistance
Team: (i) collect and record on a continuing basis in accordance with appropriate
statistical methods and procedures such traffic data, technical, economic and
financial information as shall be reasonably required for proper planning of
maintenance, improvements and extensions of its road network; (ii) prepare by
June 30, 1973 or such other date as the Borrower and the Association shall agree,


﻿7
a realistic program satisfactory to the Association of routine and periodic
maintenance of the Borrower's road network and take all necessary action to
implement the said programm; and (iii) cause its road network to be adequately
maintained and cause all necessary repairs thereof to be made promptly, all in
accordance with sound engineering practices.
(b)   The Borrower shall provide promptly, as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the maintenance and repairs to be carried
out pursuant to this Section.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall, with the aid of the Technical Assistance
Team: (i) take such steps as shall be reasonably required to ensure that the
dimensions and axle-loads of vehicles using the Borrower's road network are
appropriate to the structural and geometric design standards of the roads used-
and (ii) review and if necessary propose amendment of current legislation or
formulate and propose any necessary new legislation regarding vehicle registration,
licensing and weight and dimension regulations.
(b)   The Borrower shall with said aid prepare a program       for further
development of the highway network and a financing plan therefor, including a
determination of the most appropriate system of financing the construction of
feeder roads.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, by October 31, 1972 or such other date
as the Borrower and the Association shall agree, provide adequate headquarters
for the Highway Authority at Sana'a with all the furniture, fittings and other
facilities necessary for the efficient operation of the Highway Authority and the
carrying out of the Project.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall make arrangements satisfactory to the
Association to ensure that the services of staff of the Highway Authority trained
abroad under the Project are made available to the Highway Authority upon their
retUrn for a minimum   of two years.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:


﻿8
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out any part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.


﻿9
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the establishment of the Highway Authority;
(b)   the establishment of a project revolving fund pursuant to Section 3.09
hereof; and
(c)   the employment of the Technical Assistance Team.
Section 8.02. The date October 31, 1972 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.02, 4.03
and 4.05 of this Agreement shall cease and terminate on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿10
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of State for Development of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Central Planning Organization
P.O. Box 175
Sana'a
Yemen Arab Republic
Cable address:
Cenplan
Sana'a
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.


﻿11
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
By /s / Y. H. Geghman
Authorizpd Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
I.         Constriction                 2,730,000      85% of total ex-
penditures
II.        Supervision of                 225,000      90% of total ex-
construction                                penditures
III.       Engineering                    355,000       100% of foreign
equipment and                               expenditures
spare parts
IV.        Equipment for                  700,000       100% of foreign
road maintenance                            expenditures
and feeder road
construction
V.         Feasibility                  1,230,000      90% of total ex-
studies and de-                             penditures
tailed engineer-
ing
VI.        Technical                      925,000      90% of total ex-
assistance                                  penditures
VII.       Training abroad                15,000       100% of foreign
expenditures
VIII.      Unallocated                  1,520,000
TOTAL             7,700,000


﻿13
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures under Categories III and IV, until the Borrower and the
Association shall have agreed on a list of goods to be financed thereunder;
(b)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(c)   payments for taxes imposed directly tinder the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount
represented by the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph
I above in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all
such taxes, such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the
Credit will be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and


﻿14
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably determined    that the
procurement of any item in Category I or IV is inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for
such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I, II,
V or VI shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation
to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.    construction of the Taiz-Turba road (about 70 km);
B.    supervision of construction of Part A;
C.    feasibility studies, including preliminary engineering, of about 470 km
of the following high priority roads:
1.   Taiz-Hais (about 80 km);
2.    Damar-Radaa-Al Beida (about 180 km); and
3.    Yerim-Rehab-Madinat Al Abid-Bajjil (170 km) and its alternate
Mabar-Anis Duran-Madinat Al Abid-Bajjil (about 40 km);
D.    detailed engineering, preparation of cost estimates and review of
economic viability, and preparation of bidding documents suitable for
international competition for up to 260 km of roads identified as
economically justified by feasibility studies under Part C;
E.    the organization and operationg of the Highway Authority, including
on-the-job training, with the help of the technical assistance team;
F.    the purchase of (i) road maintenance and feeder road construction
equipment, (ii) spare parts for existing highway maintenance
equipment, and (iii) engineering and materials testing equipment for
the Highway Authority; and
G.    the training abroad of staff of the Highway Department.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1975.


﻿16
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Design Standards for Taiz-Turba Road
Terrain
Unit       Flat    Hilly  Mountainous
Geometric Design Standards
Speed                           km/h
Normal                                 100      60         30
Minimum                                  -      30         20
Horizontal Radius                 n
Normal                                 700     100         35
Minimum                                  -      35         20
Gradient                           %
Normal                                   3       5          9
Maximum                                  -       7         12
Roadway Features
Width                              m
Total Roadway                          9.0      7.5        6.0
Pavement                               6.0      6.0        5.5
Pavement Type                              Double bituminous sur-
face treatment


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Civil Works
1.   For the purposes of bidding, the highway shall be tendered as one bidding
section. The contract shall be on a unit price basis.
2.    Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification
to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence before they
are issued to the prospective bidders.
3.    A period of at least 60 days shall be allowed for submission of bids from
bidders. Bids shall be accompanied by a bid bond or bank guarantee amounting
to two hundred thousand Yemeni Rials.
4.    The bidding documents shall contain, inter alia, the following requirements:
(a)   that the successful bidder shall be required to furnish, at his option,
either a 100% performance bond or a bank guarantee by an acceptable financial
institution in an amount of 10% of the contract price, which bond or guarantee
shall remain in effect until the provisional acceptance of the works; and
(b)   that the contract with the successful bidder shall contain the following
provisions:
(i)        retention by the Borrower of 10% of the cost of works on each
monthly invoice up to a limit of 5% of the contract sum.
One-half of the retention monies shall be released when all work
has been substantially completed, and the other half after
termination of the contractor's responsibility in respect of
defects. In lieu of such retention the contractor may, at his
option, substitute a bank guarantee; and
(ii)       the warranty period during which the contractor remains
responsible in respect of defects in the works (fair wear and


﻿18
tear excepted) shall extend for one year after acceptance of the
work.
5.    After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the
bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report by the consultants,
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award of such
consultants and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall promptly
inform the Borrower whether it has any objection to the intended award on the
ground that it would be inconsistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement,
and shall state the reasons for any objections it may have.
6.    If the contract shall be awarded over the Association's reasonable objection,
or if its terms and conditions shall, without the Association's concurrence,
materially differ from those on which bids were asked, no expenditure thereunder
shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
7.    The Borrower shall furnish to the Association two signed copies each of
the contract promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds in respect of such
contract.
B.    Equipment for Road Maintenance and Feeder Road Construction
1.   The interval between the invitation to bid and the opening of bids shall
be not less than forty-five days.
2.    Prior to the invitation to bid, the Borrower shall prepare, with the assistance
of consultants, and submit to the Association for its approval, lists of the goods
to be procured, including specifications, the estimated unit and total cost thereof
and copies of advertising coverage and of the tender documents.
3.    Prior to the award of any contract for the supply of goods, the Borrower
shall send to the Association:
(a)   a summary of all bids received;
(b)   the consultants' evaluation of such bids and their recommendation for
award; and


﻿19
(c)   the Borrower's comments and the Borrower's proposal for award for
approval by the Association.
4.    After the award of any contract, but prior to the submission of any
withdrawal application relating to expenditures thereunder, the Borrower shall send
two signed copies thereof to the Association.
C.    Spare Parts for Road Equipment and Engineering
and Materials Testing Equipment
1.   Procurement of such goods shall be made through regular commercial
channels. Identical or similar items will be grouped together wherever practicable
for the purposes of bidding and procurement. Quotations shall be obtained from
suppliers.
2.    Before contracts are awarded, the Borrower will send to the Association
copies of the text of the invitations to submit quotations and the specifications
and other bidding documents, and shall submit, for the approval of the Association,
an evaluation of the bids received and the Borrower's proposal concerning the
contract award. If it is proposed to award the contract to a bidder other than
the one offering the lowest evaluated price, the reasons for such proposal will
be given.
3.   If a contract shall be awarded over the Association's objection or if its terms
and conditions shall materially differ from those for which bids were asked, any
expenditures thereunder shall not be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
4.    Two signed copies of each contract will be sent to the Association as soon
as signed and before submission of the first withdrawal application in respect of
such contract.


