Report No. PID9029
Project Name                     Ecuador-Structural Adjustment Loan (@)
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Economic Policy, Financial Adjustment,
Public Financial Management and
Social Protection
Project ID Number                ECPE70337
Borrower(s)                      Republic of Ecuador
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Environment Category             B
Date PID Revised                 May 18, 2000
Project Appraisal Date           May 5, 2000
Project Board Date               June 13, 2000.
Background
From 1995 through 1998 Ecuador underwent heightened
political instability. The Mahuad Government, which
took office in August 1998, achieved a peace accord
with Peru, but deteriorating economic conditions and
its problems dealing with Congress demolished its
capacity to govern. The current economic crisis in
Ecuador resulted from a confluence of external and
climatic shocks in 1998, including a sharp drop in oil
export prices, extensive damage from El NiEo rains,
and the effects of the East Asian, Russian, and
Brazilian financial crises. Ecuador's fiscal position
and weak banking system were vulnerable to these
shocks, which affected public revenues and commercial
banks' loan portfolios, which were overly concentrated
in affected sectors.
During 1999 banks failed in increasing numbers. In
February 1999 the Central Bank floated the exchange
rate, and in March 1999 the authorities froze most
banking-system deposits. The crisis took on an
additional dimension in late August 1999 when the
Government did not make an interest payment due on
US$6.5 billion of Brady bonds. Shortly thereafter,
Ecuador became the first country to default on Brady
and Eurobonds.
The year 1999 was very bad for the economy. Real GDP
fell more than 7 percent, consumer prices rose over
60 percent, unemployment increased to nearly 20
percent, real wages plunged, and the sucre lost
approximately two-thirds of its value against the
U.S. dollar. The sharp recession has caused a human



and social calamity: poverty incidence now exceeds
50 percent, urban unemployment has risen sharply, and
health and nutrition levels have plunged.
The crisis turned acute at the end of December and in
the early weeks of January 2000, when the exchange
rate began depreciating sharply. On January 9,
President Mahuad announced that the exchange rate
would be fixed against the dollar and that he would
submit legislation to dollarize the economy fully. On
Friday, January 21, however, President Mahuad was
forced from office in the wake of an attempted coup.
The following day, however, a constitutional
succession took place when then Vice President,
Gustavo Noboa, took office as President and announced
he would maintain Mahuad's basic policies, including
dollarization.
In March 2000 the Government announced a comprehensive
economic program to stabilize the economy in the
context of dollarization and to introduce long overdue
structural reforms. To achieve these objectives,
Congress approved the Economic Transformation Law
(ETL) and a subsequent set of related legislation.
While the centerpiece of the law is the official
dollarization of the economy, it paves the way for a
stronger framework for addressing the problems of the
financial sector, and allows for greater private
sector participation in the power, hydrocarbon and
telecommunication sectors. On this basis, the
Government and the IMF have agreed on an economic
program supported by a 12-months Stand-by Arrangement
for SDR227 million, approved on April 19, 2000. In
addition, as part of a concerted effort in support of
this program, the World Bank, the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) and the Andean Development
Corporation (CAF) announced in early March a three-
year program of about US$1.7 billion, which would
include the Bank's proposed Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL). It is also expected that the stabilization
program would allow Ecuador to resume negotiations
with the Paris Club and with Brady and Eurobond
holders.
Project Description
The proposed SAL is intended to support the
government's structural reform program by: (i)
improving fiscal management of the public sector
within the ongoing decentralization process, and
reforming the tax system; (ii) helping resolve the
financial sector crisis and restructure corporate debt
to restore growth on a sustainable basis; and (iii)
supplement purchasing power of the poor, to help
mitigating the impact of the current crisis on the
most vulnerable segments of the population. These
-2 -



objectives are consistent with, and complementary to,
the IMF Stand-by program, and the Bank's Financial
Sector TAL and Human Capital Protection project.
The proposed areas for the SAL would be: (i)
fiscal/public sector reform; (ii) financial sector and
corporate debt restructuring; and (iii) social
spending and programs. Actions contemplated in the
first area would: (i) improve the financial management
of the public sector in the context of
decentralization by expanding the Integrated Financial
Management System and implementing an effective public
investment management system; (ii) reform the tax
system, leaving a reduced number of taxes with wide
bases and phasing out the earmarking of revenues;
(iii) make operational the oil stabilization fund; and
(iv) issue the necessary regulations and norms
required for implementing the privatization process in
power and telecommunications..
On the financial sector, the SAL will build on the
extensive work in the sector over the past 18 months,
and would be based on the matrix developed jointly
with the Fund and the IDB and included in the Fund
program. On the social sectors, the SAL would focus
on: (i) maintaining adequate levels of key social
services and programs for the poor; (ii) developing an
efficient targeting mechanism that would improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of social spending; and
(iii) supplement purchasing power of the poor by
encouraging labor intensive investment projects in low
income areas, including indigenous communities.
The IDB and CAF are also expected to provide
complementary financing to support the structural
adjustment program.
Environmental and Resettlement Aspects
No environmental or resettlement issues are raise by
the proposed structural adjustment program.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
David E. Yuravlivker
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
- 3 -



Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-6070
Fax:        (202) 676-0720
Note: This is information on an involving project.
Certain components may not be necessarily included in
the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 19, 2000.
- 4 -



