                                         Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                                  Report No: 27471

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (FSLT-70240)

                                             ON A

                                             LOAN

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 151.52 MILLION

                                           TO THE

                                   REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR

                                            FOR A

                           STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM




                                       December 29, 2003




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Department
Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective 12/29/2003)

                             Currency Unit = US Dollar
                                       US$ = US$
                                     US$ 1 = US$1

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1     December 1

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAA              Analytical and Advisory Activities
AGD              Deposit Guarantee Agency (Agencia de Garantía de Depósitos)
CAF              Corporación Andina de Fomento
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
CGE              Contraloría General del Estado
DDSR             Debt and Debt Service Reduction
ETL              Economic Transformation Law
FSTAL            Financial Sector Technical Assistance Loan
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
GoE              Government of Ecuador
IBRD             International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICC              Financial Transactions Tax (impuesto circulación de capitales)
IDB              Inter-American Development Bank
IDF              Institutional Development Fund
IFC              International Finance Corporation
IMF              International Monetary Fund
MEF              Ministry of Finance
MOP              Memorandum of the President
MOS              Modernization of the State Law
NGOs             Non-Governmental Organizations
PERTAL           Public Enterprise Reform Technical Assistance Project
QAG              Quality Assurance Group
SAL              Structural Adjustment Loan
SAPRI            Structural Adjustment Program Review Initiative
SBS              Superintendency of Banking and Insurance
SELBEN           Beneficiary Identification and Selection System
SIGEF            Intergrated System of Financial Management
SSEP             Social Sector Expenditure Program
VAT              Valued Added Tax


                           Vice President:      David de Ferranti
                         Country Director       Marcelo M. Giugale
                          Sector Manager        Ernesto May
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Sara Guerschanik Calvo

                                          ECUADOR
                                            EC-SAL


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       26
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             33
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             35
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             36
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             38
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                39
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            40

Project ID: P070337                                                  Project Name: EC-SAL
Team Leader: Sara Guerschanik Calvo                                  TL Unit: LCSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 30, 2003


1. Project Data
                   Name: EC-SAL                                                   L/C/TF Number: FSLT-70240
   Country/Department: ECUADOR                                                            Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (44%); Banking (33%); Other
                            social services (11%); Power (6%); Telecommunications (6%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Public
                            expenditure, financial management and procurement (P); Debt
                            management and fiscal substainability (S); Social risk coping (S);
                            Tax policy and administration (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/24/2000                                     Effective: 06/07/2001                06/07/2001
     Appraisal: 04/14/2000                                         MTR:
      Approval: 06/22/2000                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 03/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR/MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PUBLIC CREDIT;
                                           REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR/MINISTRY OF SOCIAL WELFARE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              David De Ferranti
Country Director:               Marcelo Giugale                                Andrés Solimano
Sector Manager:                 Mauricio Carrizosa
Team Leader at ICR:             Sara Guerschanik Calvo                         David Yuravlivker
ICR Primary Author:             Eudoxia Tello; María del
                                Carmen Araujo; Magnus
                                Saxegaard


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) was to catalyze the Government's efforts
to achieve quick economic recovery and mitigate its impact on the most vulnerable population
segments. More specifically, the loan aimed at assisting the Government in implementing
structural reforms to (i) re-establish fiscal discipline and make public finances less vulnerable to
changes in the world oil price; (ii) to achieve a sound financial sector by addressing vulnerabilities,
strengthening supervision and privatizing public banks; and (iii) to provide adequate social
protection to the most vulnerable population. Accordingly, the SAL covered the three following
areas: 1) public sector management and taxation, 2) the financial system, and 3) the social sectors.
The SAL objectives, spelled out in the Memorandum of the President (MOP), were consistent
with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). Both products were jointly presented to the Board
on June 22, 2000.

These objectives need to be assessed in the context of Ecuador's macro-financial crisis in the late
nineties and the severe impact it had on poverty rates. In the late 1990s, Ecuador, like the rest of
the region, faced several external shocks including plunging of price of main export, i.e. oil,
damages from the El Niño weather phenomenon, and an Asia, Brazil Russia international capital
market crisis that reduced capital inflows to emerging countries. These shocks in combination
with poor macro-management led to a financial crisis and culminated in a public sector default in
September 1999, marking Ecuador as the first country to default on its Brady bonds. Loss of
confidence in the economy caused a rapid downward spiral of the Ecuadorian sucre, which
devalued from 7,000 sucres/dollar at the start of the year to 20,000/dollar by year end. Economic
growth dropped sharply by 6.3 percent and inflation rose over 60 percent.          The shock on the
economy caused a severe increase in the incidence of poverty which rose to 69 percent, double its
34 percent rate in 1995.

Four months later, in January 2000, the Government announced full dollarization, and substituted
the US dollar as legal tender in Ecuador.          Full dollarization prevented the economy from
deteriorating further by eliminating one of the sources of instability, namely lack of credibility in
Ecuador's monetary system reflected in fast depreciation of the local currency. But the absence of
a monetary and exchange rate policy requires a competitive and flexible economy with balanced
government accounts, in order to adjust to changing external or internal conditions. Given these
requirements, the Ecuadorian authorities focused their efforts on structural reforms. In March
2000, the government announced its economic and social program, which was embodied in
Ecuador's Economic Transformation Law dated March 13, 2000.

In this context, the Bank supported the authorities' efforts through the SAL. The SAL was part
of a concerted "emergency" US$2 billion package involving also CAF, IDB, and IMF. For a long
time, the Bank had supported Ecuadorian structural reform efforts, but due to high social
demands in a poor economic environment and political constraints, reform progress was limited in
Ecuador. The depth of the crisis and full dollarization considerably changed the political climate,
and presented a rare opportunity to advance Ecuador's structural adjustment reforms. Lack of
progress in these reforms contributed to the economic and social crisis.




                                                  - 2 -

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
Taking into account lessons from previous Bank operations, and to ensure achieving their
objectives, two of the four loan tranches, which included conditions requiring Congressional
approval, were floating tranches. One of the floating tranches was to be disbursed upon
implementation of the tax reform (US$30 million). The other was conditioned on enactment of
two laws regarding public sector financial management and the telecommunications law (US$20
million). The remaining US$100 million were disbursed in two tranches, the first tranche upon
completion of prior actions (US$70 million) and the second tranche (US$30 million) conditioned
on progress on specific actions that could be implemented by the Executive Branch on each of the
components of the loan.

The loan consisted of the following three components 1. Public Sector Management and
Taxation; 2. Financial Sector Development and Corporate Debt Restructuring; and 3. Social
Sectors and Safety Net.

Loan Components

A) Public Sector Management and Taxation. This component had four sub-components:

(i)     Public Sector Financial Management Reform. The SAL supported the following actions:
(a) Passing and implementation of regulatory framework of the Financial Control and
Management Laws; (b) Effective           implementation of the Integrated System of Financial
Management, SIGEF, in 22 agencies of the central administration, at least 15 provincial
ministerial units and 10 autonomous entities (per the corresponding Action Plan); (c)
Decentralization of budget execution to the implementing units; (d) A new system for budget
formulation to reduce the discretion of transfers; and (e) Implementation in the Ministry of
Finance (MEF) of a Global SIGEF, aimed at consolidating all information.

(ii)    Oil Stabilization Fund. The SAL supported the enactment of Art. 441 of the Economic
Transformation Law (ETL) that regulates the operation of the oil stabilization fund as a
mechanism to stabilize fiscal revenue, including specification of the oil reference price, uses of
fund resources, and management of the fund.

(iii)   Tax Reform. To enhance the consistency and coherence of the tax system, and widen the
tax base. This reform included seven actions: (a) the elimination of at least 20 low-yield taxes with
a complex collection system; (b) elimination of the high percentage of tax revenue earmarking by
the Central Government, to avoid inflexible expenditures and enable the government more
degrees of freedom to allocate public revenue; (c) reduction of the ICC (financial transaction tax)
from 1 percent to 0.25 percent, to reduce incentives to financial desintermediation; (d) increase
the Value Added Tax (VAT) to levels consistent with the administration's fiscal program; (e)
elimination of the VAT exemptions granted to bond paper transactions and professional services;
(f) introduction of a tax on the sale of domestic fuel with a minimum rate of $0.25 per gallon; and
(g) unification of import tariffs and surtaxes.


                                                - 3 -

(iv)     Privatization in the telecom and electricity sectors. The government committed to
privatizing the telecommunications and electricity enterprises.

In the power sector this subcomponent supported (a) reforming the sector's legal framework to
facilitate privatization; (b) assessing environmental liabilities and ensuring responsibilities are
properly allocated and regulations are fully enforced prior to privatizations; and (c) implementing
an appropriate electric tariff structure to cover costs. Tariff adjustment would be progressive, to
reduce the burden on the poorest population segments.

In the telecom sector, this component supported (a) approving and enacting a new legal
framework to reduce barriers for the provision of telecom services and networks and to
rationalize the use of the electromagnetic spectrum; (b) creating a single, autonomous telecom
regulatory entity with adequate technical capacity; and (c) implementing an efficient tariff
structure, where the local and long-distance tariffs reflect the real cost of service provision (tariff
rebalancing).

B) Financial Sector Development and Corporate Debt Restructuring.
To restore confidence in Ecuador's financial sector, the SAL focused on (a) improving the
institutional framework for the intervention, restructuring and resolution of banks; (b)
implementing an agreed scheme to corporate debt restructuring; and (c) developing a medium
term strategy and action plan for the financial sector, the design of which would ensure the
minimization of moral hazard and adverse selection, as well as maximize debt recovery. The loan
also supported implementation of the government's restructuring program for debts under and
above US$50,000, in accordance with provisions contained in the Presidential Decree and the
Banking Board (Junta Bancaria) Resolutions.

C) Social Sector and Social Security Network
The loan also supported (a) protecting and monitoring the total expenditure on social services
during 2000-2001 (based on quantitative targets as detailed in Annex 4 of the SAL loan
document); (b) undertaking or completing infrastructure investment projects that would generate
a relatively high demand for unskilled labor; and (c) improve targeting of beneficiaries.


3.4 Revised Components:
The original loan components were not changed, but the two floating tranches (see Section 3.3)
were cancelled. This was so because political constraints did not allow the Government to meet
conditionality.    The   unmet    conditions  included    the   tax   reform,    enactment    of   the
Telecommunications law and establishment of a regulatory agency in accordance with this law;
and the promulgation of the Public Finance Management Laws (see attached matrix for details).
The tranches were cancelled in July 2002, and in March 2003, respectively.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The ICR team rates quality at entry of the loan as Satisfactory.

The reasons for rating are the following:


                                                - 4 -

Consistency of loan objectives with the CAS. The SAL objectives were consistent with the CAS
Progress Report, both discussed at the Board on June 22, 2000, as indicated. Both supported the
government's economic and social program and centered on two broad objectives: (i) protecting
the poor, the indigenous population, and vulnerable groups against the impact of the economic
crisis, restrict the deterioration of human capital, and lay the foundations for the development of
human capital and poverty reduction; and (ii) reestablishing macroeconomic stability, supporting
bank restructuring and economic recovery. The CAS also supported the implementation of
selected long term policies to enhance sustained development and poverty reduction.

Government Commitments. The Government of Ecuador requested the SAL from the Bank to
support implementation of the economic stabilization and structural reform program aimed at
sustaining full dollarization and creating conditions for fast growth. The SAL was part of a
concerted "emergency" effort with other strategic partners including CAF, IDB, and IMF.

Safeguard Policies. The Bank's protection policies were not applicable to this loan, as it was
designed as a SAL in support of the government's economic stabilization and structural reform
program. Although the nature of the SAL also did not trigger any safeguard issues, on the social
sector side, the SAL did support infrastructure investment projects [Subcomponent C (b)] that
would be targeted to indigenous communities under the WB-supported Indigenous and
Afro-Ecuadorian Peoples Development Project.

Project Design. The design of the operation took into account relevant lessons learned from
previous Bank operations. The design of tranches, responded to the difficulty in the country to
enact laws, which gave rise to the differentiation of floating tranches on actions that involved
Congressional approval and normal tranches on actions exclusively involving approval by the
Executive Branch. Periodic evaluations were planned to fine tune the loan design and thus achieve
meeting conditionality. In contrast to previous Adjustment Programs, the SAL included a social
component, with the purpose of mitigating the impact of the reforms on the most vulnerable
groups.

The Stage II QAG team also rated Quality at Entry of this operation as Satisfactory (overall rating
- 2). This assessment was changed from the Stage I panel which had rated it as Marginally
Satisfactory. The Stage II QAG rationale for this change was recognition of the very limited time
available to prepare the operation as well as the complex context surrounding the operation,
including a turbulent political situation and rapidly increasing poverty. The Satisfactory ranking
was also supported due to (i) the emergency nature of the operation and the potential cost of the
Bank not being part of the international support for Ecuador's economic recovery; (ii) the good
job the task team did in several areas; and (iii) other parallel poverty related projects that
complemented the SAL's social component, but not central to the SAL (as suggested in the
MOP). "On balance, the panel thought it would have been preferable to limit the objectives to the
macro-finance and corporate sector reforms, where the contents are stronger."

Conditionality. Most of the loan conditionalities were met. This provides evidence that the
agreed conditionality was realistic.



                                                 - 5 -

Project risks. The SAL MOP identified this operation as high risk, particularly because (i) social
malaise could make it impossible for the government to implement the stabilization and
adjustment measures; (ii) the political coalition that supported the reform at that moment could
fall apart; (iii) the situation of the financial sector could worsen; (iv) the framework of corporate
debt restructuring could collapse; and/or (v) Ecuador could fail to comply with the
macroeconomic program supported by the IMF Stand-by Arrangement. However, specific SAL
components and Bank support, in consultation with other international institutions, could mitigate
these risks and increase the probabilities of Ecuador's recovering from its economic and social
crisis.

Given the considerations above, the quality of entry of the loan is judged satisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of objectives and outputs under the SAL is judged Satisfactory.

Considering the degree of political instability--six finance ministers were appointed during the
duration of the loan--and the multiplicity of SAL conditionality, the achievements of the SAL
have been substantial. Around 67 percent of the SAL resources were disbursed. The direct
impact was to help close the Central Government financing gap, which prevented further
deterioration of the economy. Soon after implementation of the government's economic and
social program, signs of stabilization surfaced. By 2001 and 2002 (consumer price) inflation had
dropped to 22.4 and 9.4 percent from 91 percent in 2000, and GDP growth reached 5.6 percent
and 3.4 percent, ( the highest 2001 increase in Latin America) respectively from -6.3 percent in
1999.

Although assessment of objectives is slightly hindered by the positive external environment--high
oil prices and substantial worker remittances--that contributed to stabilize Ecuador, the policies
supported by the operation clearly contributed to the improved economic performance. The SAL
supported the issuance of the regulations of the oil stabilization fund for debt buybacks and to
buffer the impact of external shocks (including a drop in the price of oil). This helped boost
credibility in Ecuador and thus helped the government meet its near-term financing needs.
Similarly, the Fiscal Responsibility and Transparency Law that provides medium term rules for
fiscal consolidation and debt reduction and was supported by the SAL, also enhanced the
government's credibility.

With improved public finances and a strengthened financial sector, deposits and credit have
gradually increased in the Ecuadorian economy. Despite a sustained and very difficult political
environment, the government has continued to make progress in addressing structural problems
including freezing of public sector wages in 2003 to contain the fiscal deficit, reducing wages of
top government officials, and publishing the ratings of the private banks in Ecuador to promote
transparency in the banking system. After a slow down in reforms in the run up to the end-2002
elections, the reform program has resumed. For example, the government has passed a Customs
Reform Law and Civil Service Reform Bill, which serve to improve competitiveness and fiscal



                                                    - 6 -

sustainability respectively. Finally, the objective of sustained financing for delivery of social
services was achieved.

4.2 Outputs by components:
One of the conditions of the SAL was macroeconomic stability and compliance with the
macroeconomic program of the Ecuadorian government. Both the international institutions that
supported the policies and the authorities agree that the macroeconomic framework in Ecuador
today is Satisfactory.

Component 1: Improvement of Tax and Public Sector Financial Management.
On the whole, achievement of this component is judged Satisfactory.

Sub-components
a) Rationalization of Tax System: Unsatisfactory.

While an increase in non-oil revenue was achieved, introducing flexibility into public expenditures
through elimination of earmarking--a key objective--was not achieved.

Ecuador's non-oil revenue increased 23.3, 38.5, and 12.0 percent, respectively, in 2000, 2001 and
2002, after meeting the conditions for first tranche release. This suggests that achievement of
outcome was achieved. However, the aggregate demand boom due to the increase in the price of
oil and worker remittances that led to an increase in the taxable base also contributed to an
increase in non-oil taxes, which makes it difficult to attribute the achievement of the outcome of
the rationalization of the tax system alone.

Ecuador also met the conditionality involving the transaction tax, but did not eliminate
tax-revenue pre-allocations, as required. The most recent agreement with the IMF involves this
conditionality and the Government is working towards meeting it.

b) Oil Stabilization Fund: Satisfactory.

The framework adopted for operation of the Stabilization Fund2 is in place and is adequate as a
fiscal stabilization mechanism. Resources of this fund will be distributed as follows: 70 percent to
repurchase external debt and pay off debt to the Ecuadorian Social Security Institute; 20 percent
to an oil stabilization fund until it reaches 2.5 percent of GDP, and to be maintained at that level,
and to cover costs resulting from catastrophes and legally declared emergencies; and 10 percent
for social and health spending to promote human development.              The creation of the Oil
Stabilization Fund was a second tranche conditionality, which was disbursed in March 2003.

c) Public sector financial management. Unsatisfactory

Ecuador's public financial management has improved, but much remains to be done to make it
efficient and effective. Institutional SIGEF covers 85 percent of the national state budget and key
legislation was approved under SAL support, e.g. the Control and Auditing Law. However other
key legislation, e.g., the draft Public Finance Management Law is still under discussion in the



                                                  - 7 -

MEF. Due to the frequent change of authorities in the ministries, this draft proposal is constantly
being modified, and no date has been fixed as yet to submit it to the Congress. Hence, as the
conditionality was not met, the floating tranche of the Public Sector Reform was cancelled.

d ) Privatization in the telecommunication and electricity sectors. Satisfactory.

Private sector participation authorized in these sectors has increased to 51 percent from 39
percent (Articles 52 and 50 of the ETL). The legal framework, including regulations, was in place
for proceeding with continuous tariff adjustments. As a result, electricity tariffs have now reached
the level of cost recovery. The objectives and outcomes for the telecommunication sector,
however, were not achieved, leading to the cancellation of the tranche supporting related
measures, as described in Section 3.4. The issue is being dealt with today within the context of
the agreement with the IMF that includes concession of the power distribution companies, as well
as a concession for the administration of public enterprises.


Component 2: Financial Sector Development and Corporate Debt Restructuring.

The Ecuadorian financial system has recovered significantly, as reflected by an increase in
deposits. Hence, compliance with the objective and outcomes of this component is deemed
Satisfactory.

Following a strategy developed under the SAL (see below), the MEF, the Superintendence of
Banks and Insurance and the Central Bank of Ecuador, are implementing an action plan to
strengthen the financial sector and bring it up to international standards.3 Currently, the Stand-by
Arrangement subscribed with the IMF includes actions related to this objective.

Sub-components
a) Improvement of the institutional framework for the intervention, restructuring and resolution
of banks and corporate restructuring. Satisfactory.

The legal and institutional framework for the intervention, restructuring and resolution of banks
has improved. A plan to abolish the universal deposit guarantee insurance has been implemented.
Bank liquidity facilities have been established. There is stronger legal assistance to bank
supervision staff. The Superintendency of Banking and Insurance (SBS) has been immersed in a
plan to improve supervision of the banking system, including the introduction of a new Standard
Chart of Accounts (in operation since 2002), which provides a clearer and more reliable source of
information on the financial position of the banks. On-site and off-site supervision procedures
have been reviewed in detail, with a focus on risk analysis that is more in line with best
international practices. The SBS has been empowered to monitor off-shore activities closely and
arrangements with other countries to monitor off-shore banking activities have been signed.
Although offshore holdings have not been completely eliminated, growth of off-shore operations
was frozen.

Furthermore, to speed up corporate debt restructuring, Ecuadorian authorities appointed a debt



                                                - 8 -

"Czar," who became the exclusive representative (Representante Único, temporary debt
negotiator), with sufficient powers to act bilaterally or in creditor committees on behalf of the
State. The actions supported by the SAL, monitoring compliance of the commercial banks and
debtors who signed Debt Restructuring Process agreements and not allowing extensions nor
condoning the debts, contributed significantly to dispel the perception that the Government would
bail out the private sector despite the immense pressure it faced to do so.

Nevertheless, although the debts were restructured and new terms were agreed upon, there were
insufficient supportive documents and guarantees for this process, and debt recovery therefore
continues to be a slow and complicated process. The agency responsible for the process (Agencia
de Garantía de Depósitos, AGD) continues its portfolio collection and confiscation policy. There
is a risk, however, that debtors might initiate lawsuits against the AGD for alleged violation of the
Law, which might weaken collection efforts. The agreement with the IMF requires the signing of
contracts with international firms to manage the fiduciary funds resulting from the resolution of
banks under the AGD.

b) Develop a medium term strategy and action plan for the Ecuadorian financial sector, aimed
at minimizing moral hazard and adverse selections, as well as           promoting maximum debt
recovery: Satisfactory.

Reforms in the financial system continue as spelled out in the "Strategy and Action Plan for
Strengthening of the Financial Sector of Ecuador," jointly produced by the MEF, the
Superintendence of Banks and Insurance, and the Central Bank of Ecuador, and supported by the
SAL. Lack of clear responsibilities within Government to implement the action plan still remains
an issue that has slowed down somewhat the reforms.


Component 3: Social Sector and Social Security Network
Achievement of this objective is considered Satisfactory.

As the loan was declared effective in June 2001, the conditions applicable to this component were
adjusted for the years 2001 and 2002, respectively. The agreements in action plans were met prior
to disbursal of the first tranche, and government transfers and committed activities were met prior
to disbursement of the second tranche.

Sub components
a) Protect key social services that benefit the poor from further erosion. Improve the capacity for
allocating and using resources in the social sector efficiently: Satisfactory.

Under this subcomponent, the Government made progress in (i) protecting social expenditures;
(ii) budgeting an agreed amount for the social sectors in the following year's budget; and (iii)
improving coordination of the various social assistance programs.

The Social Sector Expenditure Program (SSEP) and its funding were protected. Transfers to
social programs were evaluated and guaranteed during calendar years 2000, 2001 and 2002, and



                                                  - 9 -

resulted in a level of compliance beyond expectations of 113.9 percent, 111.6 percent and 126.4
percent with respect to programmed goals for the indicated years. For 2002, the SSEP budget
represented 21 percent of the Central Government's budget (above the 15 percent minimum
requirement in the loan document), and the budget approved for the overall social sector (which
includes education, health, social welfare, labor and housing) accounted for 30 percent of the
Central Government's budget (also above the 20 percent minimum requirement of the loan).
Budget execution for 2003 increased by 13.3 percent as compared to budget execution in 2002.

Key social programs in terms of impact were identified. In 2001, these programs had executed
budgets higher than original proposed in the budget. For example, the Bono Solidario, a cash
subsidy social assistance program which is considered one of the best targeted social programs for
the poor and covers approximately 1.2 million female heads of the family, executed 108 percent of
its original budget. Another program, PRODEPINE, which generates demand for unskilled labor
through local infrastructure projects, executed 146 percent of its original budget.

With the support of the SAL, strengthening the Social Front--which coordinates the social
assistance work of the ministries of Education, Health, Welfare, and Urban Development and
Housing--improved the optimal allocation of resources in the social area as well as generate
adequate information on the sector.

b) Selected social investments to improve employment opportunities for the unemployed poor:
Satisfactory.

Disbursements for the selected social investment projects exceeded the amount agreed for the
year 2000 (US$121.8 million versus US$80 million). In 2001, disbursements totaled US$ 78.5
million, as various projects ended. Partly as a result of these employment generating projects,
between February 2001 and December 2002, unemployment declined from a peak of 12.4
percent to 7.7 percent. More notably was the increase in the share of the working population with
full time employment which rose from 32.0 percent to 61.6 percent, meanwhile
under-employment declined from 55.5 percent to 30.7 percent during the same period.


c) Identify target beneficiaries of social assistance programs: Satisfactory.

The SELBEN (Beneficiary Identification and Selection System) mechanism was developed to
focus government efforts on the fight against poverty by means of a census to improve the
database of the Bono Solidario. The new database covers information of 1.6 million households
surveyed in 789 rural areas and marginal urban sectors with 217 cabeceras cantonales (urban part
of the municipalities). This new database allows for better targeting of social programs such as the
solidarity bonds, housing programs, school assistance, in compliance with the spirit of the
conditionality.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:



                                                 - 10 -

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
On the whole, institutional impact of the program is considered Substantial.

We believe that Ecuador has improved its ability to effectively use its human and financial
resources. Although it was not possible to implement a tax reform as proposed under this
program, the activities supported by the SAL, particularly protecting social expenditures and
strengthening the financial system, and that are still being implemented remain important.
Furthermore, strengthening of the SRI and MEF in their reform process and the proposed Tax
Reform Law remain commitments of the current administration with the IMF.

The Central Bank, the Superintendency of Banking and Insurance (SBS), the AGD and MEF are
institutions that today recognize the importance of further coordination in their efforts to
strengthen the Ecuadorian Financial System. They are currently working together on the Action
Plan defined in the Strategy for Financial Sector Strengthening.

With regard to the Public Financial Sector Management Reform, the new Control and Auditing
Law helped define the institutional framework of the Comptroller's Office and the MEF as the
leading institutions for public finance management. This should be ratified in the planned Public
Finance Management Law.

The SIGEF is an instrument for MEF access to aggregate and updated information and for
adequate budget preparation. Moreover, all ministries form part of the 22 institutions that operate
with this system, which has improved efficiency in preparation of the budget, resource
management and control. The transfer system based on periodic cash programs, and the transfer
of management to ministerial authorities has also strengthened the relationship of the institutions
with the MEF.

The Social Front now has the technical capacity for the monthly monitoring of the SSEP. As part
of the assistance it delivers to the different sectoral ministries, it monitors the qualitative and
quantitative achievements of the priority programs of the sector. The MEF has met the
disbursements agreed upon in the Social Program, as can be seen in the budget in force for
calendar year 2003.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The road to a stabilized economy was bumpy in Ecuador, characterized by frequent changes in the
finance minister during loan implementation period, a divided Congress, and an on-going
international capital market crisis that led to scarce external financing. In the case of Ecuador
however, these adverse events were partially compensated by improved oil prices, and hence
increased oil export proceeds.

Frequent changes of finance ministers. The MEF, in its capacity as implementing agency during
the design and execution of the loan (February 2000 ­ March 2003) had six Finance Ministers,



                                                     - 11 -

who stayed in office for an average of 7 months. Likewise, there were many changes of
authorities in other relevant institutions (CONAM, CONELEC, Social Front, Banking
Superintendence, Central Bank, Deposit Guarantee Agency, Ecuadorian Customs Corporation).
Only in the Comptroller's Office and the Internal Revenue Service did the originally appointed
authorities remain during the implementation period.

A divided Congress. Historically, the Ecuadorian Congress has been known for the weakness of
alliances and coalitions. As a result, political support for structural reform programs is often
weak. This risk (identified in the project) materialized, as the initial alliances broke up and the
agreed reforms were not approved. It was impossible for the government to obtain agreements to
allow for the modification and/or approval of the laws that formed part of the loan conditions,
including the tax reform, the elimination of pre-allocations, and the Telecommunications Law.
Some of these conditions have now been incorporated in the arrangement signed with the IMF.
However, the current government is weak, holding only 6 of the 100 congressional seats, and
therefore must negotiate even harder with the different sectors to ensure passage of reforms. The
Congress itself is under heavy political pressures when political economic interests are at stake,
and often lacks the technical skills and staff support needed to deal responsibly with the technical
issues involved.

International capital market crisis. Ecuador's adjustment, like most adjustments, was done in the
context of scarce external financing, which limited growth despite improved relative prices.
However, the size of the adverse impact of this factor is difficult to assess, given the simultaneous
improvement in oil prices and oil export proceeds that in turn led to increased loanable funds in
the financial system.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The key factor subject to government control is its deployment of resources to implement the
reform. The government maintained a strong interest in meeting the agreements related to the
Economic Plan and with the IMF, and achieving macroeconomic stability.

The Government also bears principal responsibility for leading and informing the public debate of
its reform initiatives and working intensively with the Congress to seek their passage. Those with
vested interests jeopardized by reform recognize the stakes and are long practiced in mobilizing
resistance to change. It is up to the government to mobilize consensus among those who may not
understand the issues and their interest in them. Some of the proposed reforms required a stronger
political will for negotiations and accomplishment, as well as the subsequent authorities'
preparedness to advance the actions started in a previous administration. Measures to mitigate
these constraints were not taken, including sufficient consultation with political party
representatives.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The MEF, as the implementing agency, was responsible for coordination among the different
institutions involved in compliance with the Action Plans and loan conditions. This added to its
other    responsibilities, including disbursements supporting the Social Action Plan and those
related to the SIGEF Project that became MEF's responsibility as of 2001. Nonetheless, the
successive rotation of authorities hindered the implementation of actions, and in some cases, there



                                                    - 12 -

was insufficient political will. A good example is the Public Finance Management Law. This Law
was designed together with the Control and Auditing Law with support from the MOSTA Project
that supported international experts to review them. Only the latter law was passed by Congress.

5.4 Costs and financing:
As a structural adjustment loan, there were no project costs or financing issues.

Of the approved US$150 million loan, only US$100 million was disbursed, equivalent to 67
percent of the loan.       In June 2001, after the loan was declared effective, the first tranche
disbursement of US$70 million took place, plus commissions and interests accounting for US$1.5
million. In March 2003, the second tranche disbursement of US$30 million took place. The
floating tranche for the Public Sector Reform of up to US$20 million, and the floating tranche for
the Tax Reform of up to US$30 million, were cancelled, accounting for 33 percent of the
estimated disbursement value.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the program is considered Adequate (likely).

The current administration continues to implement activities aimed at achieving the objectives of
the SAL. Unmet SAL conditionality, including the Tax Reform, is now part of the current
Stand-by Arrangement with the IMF and two World Bank's projects, namely the Fiscal
Consolidation and Competitive Growth Loan, and the Programmatic Human Development
Growth Loan.

The medium term strategy and action plan to strengthen the financial system is making progress
through the efforts of the MEF, the Superintendence of Banks and Insurance and the Central
Bank of Ecuador. Joint actions have been defined and responsibilities have been identified to
follow up and comply with the proposed reforms.

On the social component, monitoring the qualitative and quantitative achievements of the priority
programs of the social sector continues to be done by the Social Front. Moreover, the MEF
continues to meet its disbursement obligations as agreed upon in the Social Program. There are
agreements with the new administration regarding the need to maintain a minimum social
expenditure level, with the objective of complying with the Economic Structuring and Human
Development Program and accomplishing the poverty alleviation goals proposed by the current
administration.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not applicable.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in the identification, preparation assistance, and appraisal of the project is
considered Satisfactory.


                                                  - 13 -

The SAL was consistent with the Government's development priorities and with the Bank's CAS
as discussed in section 3.5 (Quality at Entry). The loan responded to Ecuador's financing needs
and supported Ecuador structural reforms needed to both remove inefficiencies and to make full
dollarization sustainable, including public sector reforms.

The design of the loan took into account Ecuador's experience with reforms (which was poor)
and perceived improved political climate, which led to include two floating tranches involving
Congress passing of laws. However improvements in Ecuador's political climate fell short of
Bank expectations: the conditionality of the floating tranches could not be met and therefore were
cancelled. With hindsight, a programmatic approach to the loan could have been more suitable,
given the quick loss of reform momentum and deterioration of political climate as reflected in
frequent changes of finance ministers during the duration of the loan, as discussed. Also, a more
flexible approach to the program, could have facilitated compliance, given Ecuador's volatile
political environment.

The SAL, being a component of an international effort to support Ecuador, allowed for a fluid
relation with each of the other institutions involved, namely the IDB, CAF and IMF.

Undoubtedly, the SAL was a risky operation. And one of the risks identified in the MOP--failure
to comply with the macroeconomic program supported by the Stand-by arrangement--was
realized.     But the increase in the price of oil and hence improved public finances and the
reactivation of the economy helped to meet the conditionality supporting disbursement of
US$100m, or 67 percent of the total loan amount. In the context of this positive shock, the SAL
support for the establishment of an oil stabilization fund to cope with oil export proceed volatility
was timely.

Finally, at the time of implementation, little was understood about full dollarization, both in
Ecuador and the Bank. Hence a series of papers were commissioned to bring light on the subject
and were discussed with the authorities. These papers are included in a volume "Crisis and
Dollarization in Ecuador" that was published in 2002. Unfortunately, efforts by both the Bank
and the authorities were limited to use knowledge and involve key implementation actors in a
consensus building activity to catalyze project implementation.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision of the Program is considered Satisfactory.

During the duration of the loan Ecuador had several finance ministers, as discussed. In view of
this and to ensure project continuity, the Bank supervised the project through different vehicles,
including on-site visit by Bank missions and local staff. Sustained supervision was particularly
important at the political level to prevent backtracking or actions contradictory to the spirit of the
reform program. During the last 6 months of the project, a new task manager was assigned to the
project. In view of the Bank's commitment not to extend the closing date of the loan and the
limited information on Bank operations by the authorities that took power in January 2003,
supervision took the form of video and audio conferences (almost weekly) and on-site visits by
Bank local staff, leading to the disbursement of the loan's last tranche.


                                                 - 14 -

In view of these achievements, the ICR team judges the supervision performance of the Bank as
Satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was Satisfactory.

Bank preparation and supervision missions provided the expertise needed for the project. Bank
staff monitored the project on a permanent basis to ensure maintaining project objectives, despite
frequent changes of authorities. One of the most positive aspects was knowledge dissemination
during the preparation stages of the project and during its last stages. The Bank worked at the
technical level hand-in-hand with the new authorities that had just entered power three months
before the loan closing date, to ensure meeting conditionality for disbursement of the last tranche.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Performance of the borrower during preparation of the program is considered Satisfactory.

The Government had a clear view on what was needed for the country's economic recovery,
hence there were no major bottlenecks during loan preparation. But it had overestimated the
ability of Congress to pass all the laws supported by the SAL, as well as the probability of
complying with its conditionality. Efforts should also have been targeted to seek the consensus
for project implementation among key stakeholders, as discussed (Section 5.2).

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government performance in implementation of the program is considered Unsatisfactory.

While most loan conditionality was met, the loan had many closing date extensions and
disbursement delays, as well as announcements of tranche cancellations that materialized in the
end, but also with delays. This approach took a lot of resources, in Government that could have
been used more productively, but more importantly sustained uncertainty regarding the
Government's program at the time with Ecuador was trying to build up credibility domestically
and internationally.

Limited political negotiating capability of the President's office led to strong political opposition
that prevent meeting some conditionality, especially the Tax Reform. In view of this outcome, the
implementing agency, the MEF, became involved in political lobbying and succeeded in creating
the conditions for the passage of other laws, namely, the Fiscal Responsibility Law.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance of the Implementing Agency is considered. Satisfactory.

In reference to the SAL, the allocation of responsibilities within the Government proved effective.
The MEF was responsible for decision making, while execution and follow up was the
responsibility of the line agencies involved. MEF support to missions and reporting has been
satisfactory. But MEF lacks enough technical and coordination capabilities to ensure attention is
given to the project on a permanent basis, rather than just prior to mission arrival. This would


                                               - 15 -

involve providing technical assistance whenever required and adequately follow-up of compliance
to government commitments, as well as warning the authorities on the cost of untimely
disbursements, unlikely conditionality compliance and proposing adjustments to the project.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower performance is considered Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The principal lessons learned from this program can be summarized as follows:

Ø       In designing the project, if reform needs are substantial, it may be more effective to have a
series of one-tranche loans rather than one operation involving all reforms. This will allow for
faster implementation as the number of actors and agencies involved and the amount of
coordination required is reduced.

Ø       If one of the loan component is not as relevant as the others, it might be more effective to
have a separate more focused sectoral operation, as recommended by the QAG team for the SAL
social component. It must be recognized however, that although the social component was
relatively small, it was very well received by stakeholders.

Ø       Gradualism in implementation of measures proved the right approach, although planned
differently, for the liberalization of utility prices.

Ø       At the national level, having an active technical and political advice team to ensure project
success and catalyze the preparation by identifying action plans taking into account the political
economy of the country is desirable. The advice of this team is particularly critical in projects like
the SAL that required Congressional approval of several laws as conditionality. This team would
coordinate actions, seek consensuses and analyze the opportunity and advantages of the
modalities for the Executive Branch to send law proposals to National Congress.

Ø       Allowing room for program adjustments and involving key stakeholders during project
preparation would catalyze project implementation. Failure to do this delayed implementation of
actions in the telecommunication sector and made implementation of SIGEF difficult.

Ø       The Executing Unit must monitor loan conditionality compliance, as well as alert
authorities on the technical and/or political bottlenecks hampering compliance.

Ø       The participation of various multilateral organizations should be better coordinated. It is
troublesome for the different stakeholders and the implementing agency to prepare for different
missions with different entities regarding compliance of similar action plans and objectives.

Ø       The Bank's close supervision of the loan proved very effective, in light of frequent
authority changes.

9. Partner Comments



                                                    - 16 -

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




       MINISTERIO DE
                                     ECONOMIA Y FINANZAS




                                   INFORME TECNICO Nº259

   Tema:        PRESTAMO DE AJUSTE ESTRUCTURAL SAL INFORME FINAL

   Fecha:       26 de junio de 2003




   1. Antecedentes

   En el marco del acuerdo Stand-by con el Fondo Monetario Internacional vigente en el año
   2000, los organismos multilaterales ofrecieron su apoyo económico al Ecuador a través de
   préstamos de ajuste estructural para el fortalecimiento del esquema de dolarización, la
   estabilidad macroeconómica, y la reactivación productiva.

   Entre estos préstamos de Libre Disponibilidad con los organismos multilaterales, se
   encuentra el Préstamo de Ajuste Estructural (SAL) del Banco Mundial, por un monto de
   USD 151.520.000 para la ejecución del programa de estabilización macroeconómica en un
   entorno que promueva la participación del sector privado, la resolución de las instituciones
   financieras intervenidas, y que al mismo tiempo se proteja a los grupos sociales más
   vulnerables del proceso de ajuste.


   2. Información Básica



   Entidad Otorgante: Banco Mundial
   Identificación del Proyecto: 7024- EC
   Ejecutor: Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas ­ Subsecretaria de Política Económica
   Fecha de Firma: 17 de Agosto de 2000
   Declarado Efectivo: Junio del 2001.
   Tramos Originales:

   1.   Primer Tramo: hasta por USD 70.004.800 millones (desembolsado)




                                             - 17 -

2.   Segundo Tramo: hasta por USD 30.000.000 millones (desembolsado)
3.   Tramo Flotante de Reforma del Sector Público : hasta por USD 20.000.000
(rescindido)
4.   Tramo Flotante de Reforma Tributaria: hasta por USD 30.000.000 (rescindido)

3. Análisis

Como se desprende de la información anterior, del préstamo en cuestión se lograron
desembolsar únicamente dos tramos (primero y segundo) por un total de USD 100 millones,
excluida la comisión de desembolso de USD1.250.000.

A continuación se detallan las condicionalidades de cada uno de los tramos de
financiamiento, analizando en caso de ser pertinente su cumplimiento o no.




3.1 Condición General para todos los tramos.

·    Un entorno macroeconómico satisfactorio: El cumplimiento de esta condicionalidad
por parte del Ecuador, estaba sujeto al acuerdo con el FMI, pues en este marco nace este
financiamiento.

       Cumplimiento: El 7 de febrero de 2003 se firma la Carta de intención con el FMI.
       Acuerdo con el FMI desde enero.


3.2 Condiciones Aplicables al primer tramo
desembosado en junio de 2001 ­USD 71,52 millones incluido comision


1.   Aprobación del Congreso de la Ley de Transformación Económica (ETL ) que
establece la base para la dolarización e incluye importantes reformas estructurales.

           Cumplida: El 13 de marzo del 2000 se promulgó la Ley de Transformación
           Económica en el Registro Oficial Suplemento Nº 34

2.   Aumentar el IVA desde el 10% al 12% y ampliar la base. Reinstaurar el impuesto a
la renta y aumentar las tasas marginales al máximo de 25%. Eliminar algunas
exoneraciones de tarifas de importación y reducir el impuesto a las transacciones
financieras desde el 1% al 0.8%.Convenir en el Plan de Acción para una reforma
tributaria comprensiva

           Cumplida:     Luego del análisis realizado por el Banco Mundial se dio por
           cumplida gracias a la Ley de Racionalización Tributaria, concretamente a sus
           artículos 6, 22 y 37., Registro Oficial Suplemento Nº 321 del 18 de noviembre de
           1999.



                                           - 18 -

3.  La ETL ha incrementado la participación permitida del sector privado en los
sectores de electricidad y de telecomunicaciones desde el 39% al 51%

          Cumplida: Cumplida gracias a la Ley de Transformación Económica , en sus
          artículos 52 y 59 respectivamente. (Registro Oficial Suplemento Nº 34 del 13 de
          marzo de 2000)

4.  Reestructura del Ministerio de Finanzas y acuerdo en un plan de acción para la
reforma en el manejo del gasto público, incluyendo la expansión de cobertura del
SIGEF



      Cumplida: Con el inicio del proceso de reestructura del MEF, el 2 de Diciembre de
      1999, a través de la firma del contrato para "Elaborar un Proyecto de
      Reestructuración y Fortalecimiento del Recurso Humano del Ministerio de Finanzas
      y Crédito Público".
      El Proceso de Reestructura se concretó mediante la Publicación del Registro Oficial
      Nº 306 del 16 de abril de2001, del nuevo Reglamento Orgánico del Ministerio de
      Economía y Finanzas.



5.  Cierre y Reestructuración de la Banca Privada

      a. Mejorar el marco legal e institucional para la intervención, reestructuración y
      resolución de los bancos.

      Cumplida con : Ley de Transformación Económica, Capítulo III, Registro Oficial
      Suplemento Nº 34, 13 de marzo de 2000

      b. Aprobar el plan para abolir el seguro garantizado de depósito universal.

      Cumplida con: Ley de Transformación Económica, Capítulo IV Art 38, Registro
      Oficial Suplemento Nº34, 13 de marzo de 2000

      c. Intervenir/cerrar 2 bancos grandes y 12 bancos pequeños que fracasaron, por lo
      cual los propietarios previos se apropiaron de su capital y encaran acciones legales.

      Cumplido: Luego de la verificación de la información por parte del Banco Mundial

      d. Proporcionar apropiada asistencia legal al personal de supervisión de bancos.

      Cumplida con: Registro Oficial Nº144, Suplemento Art. 116. del 18 de agosto de
      2000


      e. Aumentar la capacidad de manejo de los activos de la AGD mediante poder
      extrajudicial (coactiva) para englobar a deudores de activos colaterales y otros.




                                          - 19 -

      Cumplida con: Registro Oficial Nº144, Suplemento Art. 121 del 18 de agosto de
      2000

      f. Crear facilidades de liquidez para los bancos.

      Cumplida con: Registro Oficial Nº109 Capítulo III del 29 de junio de 2000,
      Constitución del Fondo de Liquidez.

6.  Reestructurar los préstamos del sector financiero, de una manera que minimice el
riesgo moral y la selección adversa.

      a.- Adoptar un esquema de reestructuración de deuda estandarizada para
      préstamos por debajo de US$ 50.000 con rols-out de 3-7 años.

      b.- Emitir un Decreto Presidencial y las resoluciones implementadoras subsiguientes
      por la Junta Bancaria, estableciendo guías, criterios, y la cronología para la
      reestructuración de las deudas a instituciones financieras sobre US$50.000.

      Cumplido: Los literales a y b de este punto se cumplen mediante la Ley de
      Transformación Económica, Registro Oficial Suplemento Nº 34 del 13 de marzo de
      2000, Capítulo XIII; Registro Oficial Nº 50 del 4 de abril de 2000, la Resolución de
      Junta Bancaria Nº JB-2000-213 del 5 de mayo de 2000 y el Registro Oficial No 105
      con la Resolución Junta Bancaria JB-2000-222 del 23 de junio de 2000.



7.  Eliminar las actividades bancarias off-shore registradas en el Ecuador.

      a.- Congelar el crecimiento de los activos de las actividades bancarias offshore y dar
      poder a la Superintendencia de Bancos a fin de desinvertir dichos activos y para
      monitorearlos cuidadosamente.


      Cumplido con: Ley de Transformación Económica, Registro Oficial Suplemento
      Nº34, Disposición Transitoria 5ta del 13 de marzo de 2000.

      b.- Convenir oportunamente para eliminar los registros offshore de las actividades
      bancarias en el Ecuador, dentro de un período de 18 meses.

      Cumplida en el segundo tramo luego de que el país solicitará un waiver. Dada la
      imposibilidad práctica de alcanzar los objetivos inicialmente propuestos, se acordó
      con el Banco Mundial, que para su cumplimiento bastaría con desarrollar y cumplir
      un cronograma para lograr convenios de supervisión, o trasladar las operaciones
      hacia lugares donde existieran dichos acuerdos.
      Se han suscrito convenios con organismos de países en donde las actividades
      financieras ecuatorianas mantienen operaciones off-shore. Al momento se han
      logrado acuerdos con Perú, Colombia, Panamá, Monserrrat y está cerca de
      conseguirse acuerdos con Grand Cayman.

      No se ha podido conseguir acuerdos con Nassau, Curazao y Vanuatu; por lo tanto



                                          - 20 -

       se están cerrando las operaciones off shore. Por ejemplo en Vanuatu cierra el
       Banco Cofiec, en Nassau está en proceso de fusión por absorción del Amazonas
       Int. Bank, por lo que quedaría sólo el Banco del Pichincha. Por lo tanto quedarían
       pendientes de suscribir acuerdos con Nassau e Islas Cayman, ambas con un solo
       banco. Del último existe un proyecto de convenio que está en estudio.

8.  Acuerdo sobre un juego de gastos sobre servicios de prioridad social a ser
protegidos y monitoreados durante los años 2000-2001.

       Cumplido: Para este acuerdo, se concretó el convenio de Cooperación entre el
       Fondo de las Naciones Unidas para la Infancia y el MEF el 15 de junio de 2000 con
       el objetivo de monitorear el Programa de Gasto del Sector Social del 2000, y el
       correspondiente a la Proforma 2001.

9.  Acuerdo sobre el Plan de Acción para implementar los sistemas de objetivos
mejorados para seleccionados programas sobre pobreza.

       Cumplido: Para este acuerdo, se firmó el Convenio de Préstamo de Cooperación
       Técnica (EC-0195) con el BID y el Decreto Ejecutivo Nº 614 para constituir el Frente
       Social (Registro Oficial 134, del 8 de agosto de 2000)

10. Acuerdo sobre asignaciones presupuestarias para el bono de solidaridad y para
programas de inversión pública seleccionadas que generan oportunidades para mano
de obra no calificada

       Cumplido: En su momento se remitió al Banco Mundial para evidenciar esta
       condicionalidad el Registro Oficial Nº106, del 26 de junio de 2000, para que se
       conozcan los montos a los que se comprometió el país en materia de Bono
       Solidario. De igual manera se presentó la información referente a los acuerdos
       respecto de los programas que generan oportunidades para la mano de obra
       calificada.


3.3 Segundo Tramo.
Desembolsado por un total de US$ 30.000.000 en marzo de 2003

11. El gobierno del Ecuador (GDE) ha expedido las regulaciones para el fondo de
estabilización petrolera mencionado en el artículo 40 de la ley Nº 2000- 4 para hacer
que el fondo opere de manera satisfactoria para el banco, como un mecanismo para
estabilizar los flujos de ingreso fiscales acorde con un programa aceptable para el
Banco.

       Cumplida: La condicionalidad estaba cumplida a partir de las regulaciones a la Ley
       Nº 2000-4. No obstante el Banco presentó sus objeciones al respecto del tema en el
       año 2001, dando a conocer que la Ley Nº 2000-4 no cumplía con lo que se
       pretendían, y que era imposible obtener el objetivo de estabilización mediante
       regulación. El Gobierno Ecuatoriano, por su parte aprovechó la Ley Orgánica de
       Responsabilidad Estabilización y Transparencia Fiscal (Ley No. 72. RO/ 589 de 4 de
       junio del 2002.) para a través del artículo 17 cumplir con lo acordado.


                                           - 21 -

       .
12. El Consejo Nacional de Electricidad ha publicado las políticas de tarifas eléctricas
, aceptable para el banco, en particular , el grupo de tarifas para: (i) Consumo
doméstico de hasta 300 KWH por mes de electricidad a niveles suficientes para cubrir
al menos el 60% de los costos reales de generación, transmisión y distribución, y (ii)
Consumidores sobre 300 KWH por mes a niveles suficientes para cubrir en el
excedente a los 300 KWH al menos los costos reales de generación, transmisión y
distribución. Para los propósitos de este párrafo, el término real significa el costo
marginal a largo plazo de generación, transmisión y distribución calculado usando
una metodología aceptable para el banco.

       Cumplida: La condicionalidad establecida se encontraba en cumplimiento desde el
       año 2002. No obstante la Carta de Políticas firmada por el país establecía de
       manera clara el compromiso de mantener un cronograma que permita que los
       precios lleguen a cubrir costos. Para el mes de abril de 2002, se interrumpió este
       cronograma por parte del Sr. Presidente de la República, en función de lo cual se
       dio por no cumplida esta cláusula hasta el mes febrero de 2003 cuando se reactivó
       dicho cronograma.

13. El GDE ha hecho progresos, satisfactorios para el banco, en la implementación
del Plan de Acción de Gestión Financiera Pública, incluyendo en particular:

a)   El SIGEF al que se hace referencia en la Resolución Ministerial Nº 181 de diciembre 9
de 1999 ha sido implementado en al menos 22 agencias o entidades;

       Cumplido: El SIGEF remitió la información necesaria para demostrar el
       cumplimiento de la condicionalidad.


b)   El Ministerio de Finanzas esta consolidando la información de gasto público proveída
por las agencias o entidades a las que se hace referencia en el párrafo superior (a)

       Cumplida: El SIGEF remitió la información necesaria para demostrar el
       cumplimiento de la condicionalidad.




14. EL GDE debe adoptar una estrategia y plan de acción de mediano plazo,
aceptable para el banco para el desarrollo de un sistema bancario sano en una
economía dolarizada, en particular, medidas diseñadas a restaurar la propiedad
privada y operación de esos bancos bajo control de la AGD, y alcanzar los estándares
internacionales en regulación bancaria y marco de supervisión


       Cumplida: Se contrataron dos consultorías para cumplir con esta condicionalidad.
       La primera destina a desarrollar la "Nueva Estructura del Sistema Financiero" misma
       que estuvo a cargo del Ec. Martín Naranjo Landerer, ex Superintendente de Bancos
       del Perú, y la segunda para el diseño de la "Nueva Arquitectura del Sistema


                                           - 22 -

      Financiero" a cargo del Dr. Egidio Luis Miotti de Argentina. Ambos informes
      presentados se realizaron con cargo a recursos del convenio de préstamo Nº
      FS-IBRD-TAL-4567-EC del Banco Mundial. Su cumplimiento se verificó en Febrero
      2003.



15. Todos los bancos comerciales y deudores al sistema bancario que han suscrito
acuerdos en el proceso de reestructuración de deuda están cumpliendo
sustancialmente con las provisiones de esos acuerdos.

   Cumplida: Esta condicionalidad verificó su cumplimiento con el nombramiento del ZAR
   de las deudas, mismo que se convirtió en el representante único, con suficiente
   autoridad de actuar en forma bilateral o dentro de los Comités de acreedores a nombre
   del Estado.


16. El Gobierno ha hecho las transferencias mensuales de fondos requeridos por el
Programa de Gastos del Sector Social, durante la segunda mitad del año 2000 en
montos y acorde con los programas especificados.

      Cumplida: La condicionalidad en su estricto sentido se cumplió en el año 2000. No
      obstante, todas las misiones del SAL se interesaron mucho en ver el avance del
      tema, motivo por el cual se presentó este mismo análisis para los años 2001 y 2002.

17. El Gobierno presupuesto para el año calendario 2001 para los servicios,
programas e inversiones referidos en el párrafo 6 para el sector social: i) en un monto
agregado igual al menos al 15% del presupuesto del Gobierno Central; o ii) los montos
especificados en la Sección IV del Programa de Gastos del Sector Social.

      Cumplida: La condicionalidad en su estricto sentido se cumplió para la proforma del
      año 2001. No obstante, todas las misiones del SAL se interesaron mucho en ver el
      avance del tema, motivo por el cual se presentó este mismo análisis para los años
      2002 y 2003.

18. Se presupuesto para el año 2001 para el total del sector social (incluido
educación, salud, bienestar social, y trabajo) un monto equivalente al menos al 20%
del presupuesto del Gobierno Central.

      Cumplida: La condicionalidad en su estricto sentido se cumplió para la proforma del
      año 2001. No obstante, todas las misiones del SAL se interesaron mucho en ver el
      avance del tema, motivo por el cual se presentó este mismo análisis para los años
      2002 y 2003.


19. El Gobierno ha hecho las transferencias mensuales para las Inversiones
Seleccionadas, durante la segunda mitad del año 2000 en montos y acorde con los
programas especificados.




                                          - 23 -

       Cumplida: La condicionalidad en su estricto sentido se cumplió en el año 2000. No
       obstante, todas las misiones del SAL se interesaron mucho en ver el avance del
       tema, motivo por el cual se presentó este mismo análisis para cada vez que venía la
       misión en los años 2001 y 2002.


20. El Gobierno ha hecho progresos, satisfactorios para el Banco, en la
implementación de un Plan de Focalización.

       Cumplida: Con la culminación de Selben se da por cumplida esta condicionalidad
       en junio de 2002. Se presentaron al banco con la debida periodicidad informes del
       avance del tema.


3.4 Tramo Flotante: Reforma Tributaria
Rescindido


Las condicionalidades que se exponen a continuación constituían este tramo:


21. El GDE ha hecho progresos, satisfactorios para el banco, en la implementación
del Plan de Acción de Reforma Impositiva incluyendo en particular:

a)  Eliminación de las preasignaciones de los impuestos a la Renta, al IVA, al ICE y a
los Arancelarios.

b)  Eliminación de al menos 20 de los impuestos que contribuyeron cada uno con
menos de 0.2% de los ingresos fiscales durante el año calendario 1999.

c)  Reducción del impuesto a las transacciones financieras a no más del 0.25%.

d)  Incremento de la tasa del IVA a niveles aceptables para el Banco y la eliminación
de las exenciones de este impuesto para el papel bond y los servicios profesionales

e)  Introducción de un impuesto a la venta de combustible doméstico con una tasa
de al menos $0.25 por galón de combustible

f)  Unificación de las tasas de importación y sobre tasa temporal a las importaciones
a niveles aceptables para el banco

       Estas reformas en algunos casos fueron cumplidas como en el literal c), donde se
       eliminó por completo el impuesto a las transacciones financieras. No obstante
       existen otras reformas donde destaca la eliminación de preasignaciones sobre
       impuestos, que no tuvo factibilidad política de realizarse, y que determinó que este
       tramo de financiamiento deba rescindirse.
       Así, el Gobierno del Ecuador envió por carácter ordinario la Reforma Fiscal en el año
       2001, misma que pretendía entre otros, cumplir con los objetivos de La Ley de
       Responsabilidad Fiscal y eliminar las preasignaciones.


                                          - 24 -

       Este reforma, fue retirada para substituirse por la Ley de Responsabilidad, pero
       varias fuerzas políticas de alta representatividad en el Congreso hicieron público en
       algunas ocasiones que si el ejecutivo insistía en eliminar las preasignaciones, no
       permitirían la aprobación de la Legislación restante.
       Ante esto el ejecutivo optó por sacarla del proyecto de Ley de Responsabilidad.


3.5 Tramo Flotante: Reforma Sector Publico
Rescindido
REFORMA SECTOR PUBLICO TRAMO FLOTANTE ­ CUMPLIMIENTO
1.  La ley de Telecomunicaciones ha sido promulgada, ha sido establecida una
agencia pública regulatoria de las telecomunicaciones en concordancia con dicha
ley.

2.  La agencia regulatoria de telecomunicaciones citada en el artículo a modificado
las políticas tarifarías en los servicios de telecomunicaciones de manera aceptable
para el Banco.

3.  La ley De Control y Auditoria y la ley de Gestión de las Finanzas Públicas hayan
sido aprobadas.


   Este tramo de financiamiento contó con el reinicio del incremento tarifario para el sector
   de telecomunicaciones. El país en conversaciones con el Banco Mundial dio a conocer
   que no hubo posibilidad política de enviar la Ley de Telecomunicaciones, por lo que se
   solicitó el reemplazo esta condicionalidad con la promulgación de reglamentos. Se tiene
   en la actualidad un marco normativo coherente con las necesidades del sector
   telecomunicaciones, y de acuerdo a la opinión de expertos no se requiere, al menos por
   el momento una nueva Ley.

   No obstante, a pesar de que se consiguió la promulgación de la Nueva Ley de Control;
   la Ley de Gestión Financiera, debido al cambio de autoridades, fue redireccionada en
   su alcance y contenido, en virtud de lo cual se encuentra en proceso de análisis.
   Además no se avizora la factibilidad política de enviarla en el siguiente semestre. Esta
   fue la principal razón para pedir el rescindir este tramo de financiamiento.




3.6 Evaluación del Prestamista.

Se considera que en términos generales el Banco Cumplió con su rol facilitando la
concreción de acuerdos para viabilizar las condicionalidades establecidas.

3.7 Evaluación del Prestatario.

La unidad ejecutora, en este caso el MEF, contó en todo momento con el valioso concurso
de los entes directamente involucrados, CONAM, CONELEC, Presidencia de la República,
CONATEL , Superintendencia de Bancos, Frente Social y SIGEF.




                                            - 25 -

   Debe reconocerse no obstante que al momento de negociar las condicionalidades de este
   tipo de préstamos debería analizarse no solamente su perspectiva técnica sino su viabilidad
   política.

   Los dos tramos de financiamiento rescindidos obedecen fundamentalmente a que no
   existió viabilidad política para impulsar las reformas en el Legislativo necesarias para
   cumplir con las condicionalidades. Debe mejorarse entonces, de manera sustancial, el
   análisis previo a la firma de estos compromisos.




   Suscribe:




   Diego Mancheno Ponce
   SUBSECRETARIO DE POLÍTICA ECONOMICA



(b) Cofinanciers:
There were no other cofinanciers for this project.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information


ENDNOTES

1. The Art. of the ETL referring to the Oil Stabilization Fund is Number 44, and not 40 as mentioned in the Loan
document.
2. The GOE was supposed to issue the regulations for the Oil Stabilization Fund mentioned under Art. 44 of the ETL. Instead
of regulating this article, the government presented the Law of Fiscal Responsibility and Transparency to Congress (Law No.
72, R.O. 589, June 4, 2002), article 17 of which complied with the conditionality. This Law created the Fund for Stabilization,
Social and Productive Investment and Public Debt Reduction (FEIREP).
3. Strategy and Action Plan for Strengthening of the Financial Sector in Ecuador, March 2003.




                                                             - 26 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

ECUADOR - ICR SAL
CONDITIONALITY MATRIX AND COMPLIANCE
First Tranche: up to US$70,004,800 disbursed in June 2001
Second Tranche: up to US$30,000,000 disbursed in March 2003
Floating Tranche Public Sector Reform: up to US$ 20,000,000 cancelled in March 2003
Floating Tranche Tax Reform: up to US$ 30,000,000 cancelled in July 2002


OBJECTIVES           ACTIONS                            COMPLIANCE            COMMENTS
I. MACROECONOMIC STABILIZATION AND PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT
MODERNIZATION
1. Stabilize the     Congress passes the Economic       First Tranche: Met
economy and          Transformation Law (ETL),          with the ETL, on
improve              which lays the foundations for     March 13, 2000. R.O.
conditions to        dollarization and includes         Supplement No. 34.
restore economic     important structural reforms.
growth.
2. Improve the       VAT increase from 10 percent      First Tranche: Met
efficiency and       to 12 percent and expansion of    with the Tax
effectiveness of the taxpayer base.                    Rationalization Law,
tax system to        Restoration of the income tax,    Art. 6, 22 and 37.
promote economic and increase of marginal rate to
activities and       a maximum of 25 percent.
equality of the      Elimination of some import
system.              tariff exemptions.
                     Reduction of the financial
                     transaction tax from 1 percent
                     to 0.8 percent.
                     Consensus on an Action Plan
                     for a comprehensive tax reform.
                    Tax Reform Action Plan:            Floating Tranche:
                                                       Cancelled in July 2002
                    a)      Elimination of             Not met                The GOE sent the Fiscal
                    pre-allocations of the Income                             Reform in the year 2001, the
                    Tax, VAT, ICE and tariffs.                                purpose of which, among
                    b)      Elimination of at least 20 Not met                other things, was to meet
                    taxes, each of which contributed                          objectives of the Fiscal
                    less than 0.2 percent of fiscal                           Responsibility Law and
                    revenues in 1999.                                         eliminate pre-allocations. This
                    c)      Reduction of the financial Met: the financial     reform was withdrawn from
                    transaction tax to a maximum       transaction tax was    Congress and was replaced by
                    0.25 percent.                      completely eliminated. the Fiscal Responsibility Law,
                    d)      Increase of VAT to a level Met                    but various political forces
                    acceptable to the Bank and                                with considerable
                    elimination of VAT exemption                              representation in Congress
                    for bond paper and professional                           publicly announced that if the
                    services.                                                 Executive Branch insisted on
                    e)      Introduction of a tax on   Not met                the elimination of
                    the household fuel sale, with a                           pre-allocations, they would not
                    minimum rate of $0.25 per



                                                        - 27 -

OBJECTIVES           ACTIONS                             COMPLIANCE                COMMENTS
                     gallon.                                                       permit approval of the
                     f)     Unification of import rates Not met                    remaining legislation. In this
                     and temporary import surtax to                                political context, the
                     levels acceptable to the Bank.                                Executive Branch chose to
                                                                                   withdraw the Responsibility
                                                                                   Law proposal.
3. Reduce volatility Regulate the Oil Stabilization      Second Tranche: Met.
of public sector      Fund created in Art. 40 of the     Through the Fiscal
revenues, based on ETL so it will operate as a           Responsibility,
the oil export price. mechanism for stabilized fiscal Stabilization and
                      revenue flows, as agreed upon      Transparency Law. (Law
                      with the Bank.                     No. 72, R.O. No. 589
                                                         dated June 4, 2002, Art.
                                                         17.)
4. Ensure             The ETL has increased              First Tranche: Met in
conditions for the    maximum permitted private          the ETL, Art. 52 and 59.
privatization of      sector participation in the
public power and      electricity and telecom sectors
telecom companies, from 39 percent to 51 percent.
and opening of        Actions:                           Floating Tranche:
these sectors to     a)     Enact a new                  Cancelled in March         This funding tranche was
private sector       Telecommunications Law,             2003 (see comment in       subject to the restart of the
investment.          putting in place an autonomous      next column)               tariff increase for the
                     regulatory agency, which will                                  telecommunications sector,
                     start to operate with the required                             but the Bank was informed it
                     budget, internal regulations and                               was politically unfeasible to
                     technical capacity.                                            send the
                     b)     Adopt efficient tariff                                  Telecommunications Law to
                     policies for the power and          Second Tranche: Met.       Congress, replacement of
                     telecom sectors.                    This condition was         this condition by the
                     Electricity Sector: CONELEC         already met in 2002.       enactment of regulations was
                     has published the electric tariff   However, the Policy        requested. There is now a
                     policies, satisfactory to the Bank, Letter signed by the       normative framework
                     particularly the following tariff   country clearly stated the coherent with the needs of
                     groups: (i) residential             commitment to obtain a     the telecom sector.
                     consumption up to 300 KWH per timeframe that allowed
                     month at a level covering at least for prices to cover costs.
                     60 percent of the real cost of      In April 2002, the
                     generation, transmission and        President of the Republic
                     distribution; and (ii) consumers interrupted the
                     of over 300 KWH per month           timeframe, which is why
                     covering, in the portion            this condition was
                     exceeding the 300 KWH, at least considered not met until
                     the real cost of generation,        February 2003, when the
                     transmission and distribution.      timeframe was
                                                         reestablished.
5. Improve the       1.     Restructure the MEF and First Tranche: Met
control and          agree an action plan to reform      with the MEF
management of        public expenditure management, restructuring process.
public finance,      including SIGEF expansion.
aimed at a better
allocation and use



                                                          - 28 -

of public resources.
OBJECTIVES          ACTIONS                            COMPLIANCE             COMMENTS
                    Action Plan for the Public         Second Tranche: Met.
                    Finance Management Reform:         The MEF implemented
                    i) Institutional change in the     the SIGEF, the SIGEF
                    MEF:                               administrating unit is
                    The Ministry shall assume the      part of the MEF.
                    role of the directive entity of
                    public finance, setting up a unit
                    in charge of SIGEF
                    administration within the
                    institution.
                    Simplify the process to transfer
                    resources to public institutions
                    and implement processes that
                    help to eliminate discretion in
                    resource allocations, by means of:
                    a)     Transfer resources to the
                    institutions using the Periodic
                    Cash Programs, at least in the 22
                    institutions operating with
                    SIGEF.
                    b)     Global transfers to the
                    Central Bank to the "T"
                    institutional accounts, at least in
                    the 22 institutions with SIGEF.
                    c)     Presentation of
                    institutional proformas for the
                    year 2001 of the 22 institutions
                    with SIGEF, thereto using the
                    budget programming-formulation
                    module.
                    ii) SIGEF in the Ministry of
                    Finance:
                    a)     Conclusion test of the
                    Global SIGEF.
                    b)     Financial Statements of
                    SIGEF Treasury and MEF,
                    obtained through the Institutional
                    SIGEF.
                    iii) Implementation of the
                    Institutional SIGEF:
                    a)     Financial statements
                    issued though the Institutional
                    SIGEF for the months of January.
                    February or March 2000, of at
                    least 18 of the 22 institutions
                    with SIGEF
                    b)     Financial Statements for
                    the year 2000 issued through the
                    Institutional SIGEF in at least 15
                    provincial implementing units of
                    the Ministries of Education and




                                                        - 29 -

                   Health.
OBJECTIVES         ACTIONS                            COMPLIANCE               COMMENTS
                    c)     Financial Statements for
                    the year 2000, in at least 10
                    institutions in the service of the
                    Central Government.
                    iv) New Public Management
                    Model:
                    a)     Issue the payroll through
                    the module and list of SIGEF,
                    in at least the 22 selected
                    institutions.
                    v) Financial Management Law
                    of the State
                    a)     The preliminary version
                    of the Financial management
                    Law was sent to the National
                    Congress for approval.
                    2.     Enactment of the Control    Floating Tranche:
                    and Auditing Law.                  Cancelled in March
                    3.     Enactment of the            2003
                    Financial Management Law.          Enacted on May 17,
                                                       2002.
                                                       Internal revision of the
                                                       MEF continues for
                                                       more than two years.
II. FINANCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT AND CORPORATE DEBT RESTRUCTURING
1. Help to          a)     Improve the legal and      First Tranche: Met
overcome the        institutional framework for the with Law ETL, R.O. No.
banking crisis and  intervention and closedown of     34, Supplement,
restore confidence  banks.                            Chapter III.
in the financial    b)     Intervene, close 2 big     First Tranche: Met
system.             banks and 12 small banks that
Strengthen          failed, which is why the
efficiency of the   previous owners appropriated
banking system,     their capital and initiated legal
devolution of       actions.
banks to the        c)     Approve the plan to
private sector and  abolish the universal deposit     First Tranche: Met
internationalizatio guarantee insurance.              with Law ETL, R.O. No.
n of the financial  d)     Provide adequate legal     34, Supplement,
system.             assistance to the banks'          Chapter IV, Art. 38.
                    supervisory staff.
                    e)     Increase the asset         First Tranche: Met,
                    management capacity of the        R.O. No. 144,
                    AGD by means of extra             Supplement Art. 116.
                    judicial (coactive) power to
                    comprise collateral asset
                    debtors and others.               First Tranche: Met
                    f)     Create facilities and      with R.O. No. 144,
                    liquidity for the banks.          Supplement, Art. 121.
OBJECTIVES          ACTIONS                           COMPLIANCE               COMMENTS
                    Adopt a medium and long term First Tranche: Met with



                                                       - 30 -

                    strategy and an Action Plan,   R.O. No. 109, Chapter
                    acceptable to the Bank, for    III, Construction of the
                    development of a solid banking Liquidity Fund.
                    system in the recently
                    dollarized economy, including Second Tranche: Met.
                    the reprivatization of banks   Two consultancies were
                    and presenting the banking     carried out to meet this
                    regulatory and supervisory     condition. The first one
                    framework in accordance with was destined to develop
                    international norms.           the "New Financial
                                                   System Structure",
                                                   carried out by Ec.
                                                   Martín Naranjo
                                                   Landere, and the second
                                                   one to design the "New
                                                   Financial System
                                                   Architecture" carried
                                                   out by Dr. Egidio Luis
                                                   Miotti. Finally, there is
                                                   a strategy agreed upon
                                                   between the MEF, the
                                                   Superintendence of
                                                   Banks and Insurance
                                                   and the Central Bank of
                                                   Ecuador. Compliance
                                                   verified in February
                                                   2003.
2. Restructure      a)    Adopting a standardized First Tranche: Met
financial sector    debt restructuring arrangement with Law ETL, R.O. No.
loans, in a way     for loans under US$50,000      34, Supplement Chapter
that minimizes      with rollouts of 3-7 years.    XIII, R.O. No. 50,
moral risks and     b)    Issue a Presidential     Resolution of the Bank
adverse selections. Decree and subsequent          Board No. JB-2000-213,
                    implementation resolutions by and R. O. No. 105 with
                    the Bank Board, establishing   JB-2000-222.
                    guidelines, criteria and the
                    timeframe for the restructuring
                    of debts over US$50,000.

                    All commercial banks and
                    debtors that signed the Debt
                    Restructuring Process          Second Tranche: Met.
                    Agreements are substantially   This condition was met
                    complying with the provisions through appointment of
                    contained in those agreements, the debt Czar, who
                    included in the Presidential   became the
                    Decree and Bank Board.         Representante Único
                                                   (debt negotiator), with
                                                   sufficient powers to act
                                                   bilaterally or within the
                                                   creditor committees on
                                                   behalf of the state.
OBJECTIVES          ACTIONS                        COMPLIANCE                COMMENTS



                                                    - 31 -

3. Eliminate      a) Freeze the growth of assets First Tranche: Met
offshore banking  of offshore banking activities  R.O. No. 34,
activities        and empower the Banking         Supplement, Fifth
registered in     Superintendence to discourage Transitory Provision.
Ecuador.          offshore holdings and monitor
                  them closely.
                  b) Commit to eliminate          First Tranche: Not met
                  offshore registers of banking   Second Tranche:
                  activities in Ecuador, within a Partially Met
                  period of 18 months.
III. SOCIAL SECTOR AND SOCIAL SECURITY NETWORK
1. Protect key    Agreement of a Group of        First Tranche: Met.
social services   Expenditures in Priority Social The cooperation
benefiting the    Services, for protection and    agreement with UNICEF
poorest groups.   monitoring during 2000-2001. was signed on June 15,
Improve the       Comply with the agreed          2000, with the objective
capacity for      expenditure program for 2000    of monitoring the social
efficient use of  and the budgeted expenditure    sector expenditure
social sector     program for 2001. Annex.        program of 2000 and the
resources.                                        pro forma program of
                                                  2001.
2. Improve        Agreement on the Action Plan First Tranche: Met.
targeting of key  to implement a targeting        The Technical
social programs   system for the selected poverty Cooperation Loan
for the poor and  program.                        agreement EC-0195 was
strengthen the    Implement the agreed upon       signed with the IDB, and
social security   Action Plan.                    creation of the Social
network.                                          Front, through executive
                                                  decree No. 614.
                  Social Action Plan:
3. Compensate     Agreement on budget            First Tranche: Met,
purchasing power  allocations for the solidarity  with R.O. No. 106,
of the poor.      bond and for selected public    amounts of the Solidarity
                  investment programs that        Bond, and agreements on
                  generate employment             programs that generate
                  opportunities for unskilled     opportunities for
                  labor.                          unskilled labor.
                  Comply with the agreed upon
                  expenditure program. Annex.




                                                   - 32 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
First Tranche                                               70.00           70.00              100
Second Tranche                                              30.00           30.00              100
First Floating Tranche                                      20.00             0.00               0
Second Floating Tranche                                     30.00             0.00               0

Total Baseline Cost                                        150.00          100.00
                        Total Project Costs                150.00          100.00
                                        Front-end fee        1.50
                  Total Financing Required                 151.50          100.00


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                       0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00


                                                - 33 -

                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
First Tranche                  70.00                                 70.00                               100.0
Second Tranche                 30.00                                 30.00                               100.0
First Floating Tranche         20.00                                  0.00                                0.0
Second Floating Tranche        30.00                                  0.00                                0.0




                                                           - 34 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

It was not possible to calculate economic costs and benefits for this project.




                                                   - 35 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              February 2000             1    Task Manager (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              March/April             10     Task Manager (1); Macro
              2000                           Economist (1); Research
                                             Analyst (1); Consultants (2);
                                             IMF (1); Debt Specialist (1);
                                             Social Sector Specialist (2);
                                             Operational Issues (1)
              May 2000                  5    Task Manager (1); Debt
                                             Specialist (1); Macro Economist
                                             (1); Operational Issues (1);
                                             Consultant (1)

 Supervision
              June 2000                 4    Task Manager (1); Debt
                                             Specialist (1); Consultant
                                             (1); Country Manager (1)
              July 2000                 3    Debt Specialist (1); Consultant        S               S
                                             (1); Country Manager (1)
              October 2000              2    Debt Specialist (1); Country
                                             Manager (1)
              October 2000              5    Task Manager (1); Social Sector
                                             Specialist (1); Operational Issues
                                             (1); Consultants (1) IMF (1)
              November 2000             3    Debt Specialist (1); Consultants
                                             (1); Country Manager (1)
              December 2000             1    Task Manager (1)
              February/March            2    Debt Specialist (1); Country
              2001                           Manager (1)
              April 2001                1    Debt Specialist (1)
              May 2001                  5    Task Manager (1); Social Sector        S               S
                                             Specialist (1); Consultant (2);
                                             Country Manager (1)
              September 2001            1    Debt Specialist (1)
              October 2001              6    Task Manager (1); Social Sector
                                             Specialist (1); Country Manager
                                             (1); Financial Sector Specialist
                                             (1); Consultants (2)
              November 2001             2    Task Manager (1); Debt
                                             Specialist (1)
              April 2002                5    Task Manager (1); Country              U               S
                                             Manager (1); Debt Specialist (1);
                                             Consultants (2)

 ICR



                                              - 36 -

               August -               5     Task Manager (1);
               December 2003                Consultants (3); Research
                                            Analyst (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            1.56                         6.213
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 37.9                        199.953
  Supervision                          86.88                        506.271
  ICR                                   12.5                             35
  Total                              266.43                         747.437




                                            - 37 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 38 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 39 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

ECSAL files.
The World Bank. Report & Recommendation of the President of the IBRD to the Executive Directors.
Ecuador. Structural Adjustment Loan. Report No. P 7377 EC. May 18, 2000.
Source: Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas, Informe Final del Prestatario, Agosto 2003.
Source: Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas, Informe Técnico No.        , Agosto 2003.
The World Bank. Ecuador Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), Report No. 25817 EC, April 29, 2003.
Source: Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas, Estrategia y Plan de Acción para el Fortalecimiento del
Sector Financiero del Ecuador. March 2003.
The World Bank. Program Document. Ecuador Programmatic Human Development Reform Loan I
Report No. 25791 EC. April 28, 2003.
The World Bank. Program Document. Ecuador Fiscal Consolidationand Competitive Growth Adjustment
Loan Report No. 25786 EC. April 28, 2003.




                                               - 40 -

- 41 -

