Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7024-EC
Loan Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 17, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 7024-EC
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 17, 2000 between REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank):
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter from the Borrower, dated 
May 12, 2000 describing a program of objectives, actions, and policies 
designed to achieve adjustment of the Borrower’s economy (hereinafter 
called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution 
of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the 
Program during the execution thereof;
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has 
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the 
Borrower by making the Loan to the Borrower in three tranches as 
hereinafter provided;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 
1, 1999 with the modifications thereto set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read as follows 
in its entirety:
“ ‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble 
to the Loan Agreement, in  support of which the Loan is made.”;
(b)
Section 5.01 is modified to read as follows in its entirety:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of 
the Loan from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of 
the Loan Agreement and of these General 
Conditions”;
(c)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(d)
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read as follows in its 
entirety:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be  agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Loan Agreement, 
the performance by the Borrower and the 
Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”; and
(e)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified 
above), 9.08 and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 
9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Debtor-Creditor Agreement” means any of the agreements 
entered into by banks and financial institutions with their debtors in 
accordance with the provisions of the Restructuring Resolution (as 
defined below);
(b)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(c)
“First Tranche” means the portion of the Loan not exceeding 
$70,004,800 to be disbursed by the Bank on or after the Effective Date;
(d)
“Fiscal Control and Auditing Law” means a law to be enacted 
by the Borrower, under terms acceptable to the Bank, setting forth, inter 
Page  3
alia, the elimination of the ex-ante review of administrative actions by 
the Borrower’s Comptroller General Office;
(e)
“Public Financial Management Action Plan” means the plan 
furnished to the Bank on May 12, 2000 setting forth measures to improve 
its financial management systems;
(f)
“Public Financial Management Law” means a law to be enacted 
by the Borrower, under terms acceptable to the Bank, setting forth, inter 
alia, the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance responsibilities for financial 
management and control of public finances;
(g)
“Public Sector Reform Floating Tranche” means the portion of 
the Loan not exceeding $20,000,000 to be disbursed by the Bank upon 
compliance by the Borrower with the requirements set forth or referred to 
in paragraph (f) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(h)
“Restructuring Resolution” means the Resolutions of Junta 
Bancaria, the Borrower’s Banking Board, Number JB-2000-222 issued on June 
15, 2000 and Number JB-2000-223 issued on June 19, 2000 setting forth 
requirements for the liquidation or restructuring of debts owed by 
corporations to banks and other financial institutions including the 
terms and conditions of the Debtor-Creditor Agreements; 
(i)
“Second Tranche” means the portion of the Loan not exceeding 
$30,000,000 to be disbursed by the Bank upon compliance by the Borrower 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in paragraph (d) of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(j)
“Selected Investment Expenditures” means the minimum 
expenditures to be made by the Borrower for selected infrastructure 
investments which are conducive to generate demand for unskilled labor as 
listed in the letter furnished to the Bank on May 12, 2000;
(k)
“Social Sectors Expenditure Program” means the program 
furnished to the Bank on May 12, 2000 setting forth the minimum monthly 
transfers to be made to the Borrower’s ministries and agencies 
responsible for implementation of the social sector services, programs 
and investments specified therein, for the financing thereof;
(l)
“Targeting Action Plan” means the plan furnished to the Bank 
on May 12, 2000 setting forth the measures to be taken for the 
application of a methodology for the identification and selection of 
beneficiaries of the Borrower’s targeted social assistance programs, and 
the schedule thereof;
(m)
“Tax Reform Action Plan” means the plan furnished to the 
Bank on May 12, 2000 setting forth measures to rationalize the management 
of tax revenues;
(n)
“Tax Reform Floating Tranche” means the portion of the Loan 
not exceeding $30,000,000 to be disbursed by the Bank upon compliance by 
the Borrower with the requirements set forth or referred to in paragraph 
(e) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; and
(o)
“Telecommunications Law” means a law to be enacted by the 
Borrower, under terms acceptable to the Bank, setting forth the powers 
and responsibilities of a single autonomous regulatory agency and 
conditions to improve the sector’s competitiveness, and increase the 
participation of private operators in the provision of telecommunication 
Page  4
services. 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount 
equal to one hundred and fifty one million five hundred and twenty 
thousand Dollars ($151,520,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall be entitled to use the 
proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the 
Deposit Account in support of the Program subject to the provisions of: 
(i) paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section; (ii) paragraph (d) of this 
Section in respect of the Second Tranche; (iii) paragraph (e) of this 
Section in respect of the Tax Reform Floating Tranche; and (iv) paragraph 
(f) of this Section in respect of the Public Sector Reform Floating 
Tranche.
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the 
first request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter 
maintain in its central bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Except with respect of the 
front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, all 
withdrawals made by the Borrower from the Loan Account shall be deposited 
by the Bank into the Deposit Account. 
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall 
not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  If the Bank shall have determined at 
any time that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been used to make a 
payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount 
equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so 
request, refund such amount to the Bank.  Amounts refunded to the Bank 
upon such request shall be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account for the 
Second Tranche unless:
(i)
the proceeds of the First Tranche have been withdrawn 
from the Loan Account; 
and
(ii)
the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of 
views as described in 
Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (A) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of 
the Program; 
(B) that the macroeconomic policy framework of 
the Borrower is satisfactory, 
as measured on the basis of 
indicators agreed between the Borrower and the 
Bank; and (C) that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement have 
been taken in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank.  If, after said 
exchange of views, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that 
the 
applicable conditions referred to in this paragraph 
have not been fulfilled 
and, within 90 days after such 
notice, such conditions continue to be 
unfulfilled, 
then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the 
Page  5
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
(e)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account in 
respect of the Tax Reform Floating Tranche, unless:
(i)
the proceeds of the First Tranche have been withdrawn 
from the Loan Account; 
and
(ii)
the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of 
views as described in 
Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (A) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of 
the Program; 
(B) that the macroeconomic policy framework of 
the Borrower is satisfactory, 
as measured on the basis of 
indicators agreed between the Borrower and the 
Bank; and (C) that the actions described in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement have 
been taken in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. If, after said 
exchange of views, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that 
the 
applicable conditions referred to in this paragraph 
have not been fulfilled 
and, within 90 days after such 
notice, such conditions continue to be 
unfulfilled, 
then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
(f)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account in 
respect of the Public Sector Reform Floating Tranche, unless:
(i)
the proceeds of the First Tranche have been withdrawn 
from the Loan Account; 
and
(ii)
the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of 
views as described in 
Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (A) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of 
the Program; 
(B) that the macroeconomic policy framework of 
the Borrower is satisfactory, 
as measured on the basis of 
indicators agreed between the Borrower and the 
Bank; and (C) that the actions described in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement have 
been taken in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. If, after said 
exchange of views, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that 
the 
applicable conditions referred to in this paragraph 
have not been fulfilled 
and, within 90 days after such 
notice, such conditions continue to be 
unfulfilled, 
then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such later 
date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in 
an amount equal to one million five hundred and fifteen thousand two 
hundred dollars ($1,515,200). The Borrower agrees that on or promptly 
after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to 
time, at a rate equal to: (a) eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent 
(0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge commences to accrue 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General 
Page  6
Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(b) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum 
thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in 
respect of each Interest Period at the Variable Rate; provided, that upon 
a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such 
amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment and other charges shall be 
payable semiannually in arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the 
following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate 
prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion 
of the principal amount of 
the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all 
or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from 
a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; 
and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable 
to all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on said Variable 
Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section that is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, 
as defined in Section 2.01 (7) of the General Conditions, and shall be 
effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to 
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in 
Schedules 3, 4
and 5 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall, 
furnish to the Bank for review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which 
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Page  7
Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Schedules 3, 4 and 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the date of the Bank’s request for such 
audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the 
Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Events of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or 
a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory to the Bank, as measured on the basis of indicators agreed 
between the Borrower and the Bank; and
(b)
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the 
Borrower in the carrying out of the Program.
Section 5.02. The date of November 15, 2000 is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes 
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Page  8
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Avenida 10 de agosto y Jorge Washington
Quito, Ecuador
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
MINFINANZAS
22358 MINFIN
(5932) 
559144
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
By /s/ Carlos Játiva 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Andrés Solimano 
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of 
the Loan shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
Page  9
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which 
any national or international financing institution or agency other than 
the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or 
which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to 
finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or 
subgroups of the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, 
Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank 
by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                     -
Alcoholic beverages
121
   -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, 
tobacco
refuse
122
   -
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco
substitutes)
525
   -
Radioactive and associated 
materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), 
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing 
machinery
897
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum
group metals (except 
watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or 
silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
971
   -
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary 
purpose or for luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of 
this paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, 
the manufacture, use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of 
the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower is a 
party);
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a 
member of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, 
such territories; or (b) on account of any payment to persons or 
entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited 
Page  10
by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter 
VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank 
determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during 
the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Borrower 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to 
remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the 
Loan and the percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable 
on each Principal Payment Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of 
the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower 
on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the 
Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayment amount 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies:
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each April 15 and October 15
Beginning October 15, 2005 
through October 15, 2016
4.17%
On April 15, 2017 
4.09%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan 
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall 
repay the amount withdrawn and outstanding as of such date in accordance 
with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date 
shall be repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of 
such withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which 
shall be the original Installment Share specified in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the 
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum 
of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates 
falling on or after such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as 
necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the 
principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as 
withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment 
Page  11
Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date 
of withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph 3, if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing 
system under which invoices are issued on or after the respective 
Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no 
longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing 
system. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this 
Schedule, upon a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the 
withdrawn principal amount of the Loan to an Approved Currency, the 
amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be repayable on 
any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall 
be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (a) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved 
Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to said Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of 
the Screen Rate.
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount 
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate 
amortization schedule for each such amount.
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) (ii) (C) of this Agreement
1.
The Borrower has issued regulations for the oil stabilization fund 
referred to in article 40 of the Borrower’s Law Number 2000-4 of March, 
2000 to make such fund operate, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, as 
a mechanism for stabilizing fiscal revenue flows in accordance with a 
timetable acceptable to the Bank.
2.
The Consejo Nacional de Electricidad, the Borrower’s Electricity 
Council, has issued electricity tariff policies, acceptable to the Bank 
requiring, in particular, the setting of tariffs for: (a) the consumption 
by household consumers of up to 300 KWH per month of electricity at 
levels sufficient to cover at least 60% of the real cost of electricity 
generation, transmission and distribution; and (b) the consumption by 
consumers of over 300 KWH per month at levels sufficient to cover, in the 
portion exceeding the 300 KWH per month, at least the real cost of such 
generation, transmission and distribution. For the purpose of this 
paragraph, the term “real cost” means the long term marginal cost of 
electricity generation, transmission and distribution calculated using a 
methodology acceptable to the Bank.
3.
The Borrower has made progress, satisfactory to the Bank, in the 
implementation of the Public Financial Management Action Plan, including 
in particular:
(a)
The Borrower’s Integrated System of Financial Management 
referred to in the Borrower’s Ministerial Resolution Number 181 of 
December 9, 1999
has been implemented in at least 40 agencies or 
entities; and
(b)
the Ministry of Finance is consolidating the public 
Page  12
expenditure information provided by the agencies or entities referred to 
in paragraph 3 (a) above.
4.
The Borrower has adopted a medium term strategy and action plan, 
acceptable to the Bank, for the development of a sound banking system in 
the dollarized economy including, in particular, measures designed to 
restore to private ownership and operation those banks under the control 
of the
Agencia de Garantía de Depósitos, the Borrower’s Deposit Guarantee 
Insurance Agency, and to bring the banking regulatory and supervisory 
framework up to international standards.
5.
All commercial banks and Debtors which have signed Debtor-Creditor 
Agreements are substantially complying with the provisions of such 
agreements. For the purpose of this paragraph: the term “Debtors” means 
those debtors deemed eligible to enter into Debtor-Creditor Agreements in 
accordance with the Restructuring Resolution.
6.
(a)
The Borrower has made the quarterly transfers of funds 
required in the Social Sectors Expenditure Program during the second half 
of calendar year 2000 in the amounts, and for the services, programs and 
investments specified therein.
(b)
The Borrower has budgeted for calendar year 2001 for the 
services, programs and investments referred to in paragraph 6 (a) above: 
(i) an aggregate amount equal to at least 15% of its central government 
budget; or (ii) the amounts specified in Section IV of the Social Sectors 
Expenditure Program, whichever shall be higher.
(c)
The Borrower has budgeted for calendar year 2001 for total 
social sector expenditures (including education, health, social welfare, 
labor and housing) an aggregate amount equal to at least 20% of its 
central government budget.
7.
The Borrower has made the monthly transfers for the Selected 
Investments Expenditures during the second half of calendar year 2000 in 
the aggregate amount and for the investments specified therein. 
8.
The Borrower has made progress, satisfactory to the Bank, in the 
implementation of the Targeting Action Plan.
SCHEDULE 4
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (e) (ii) (C) of this Agreement
The Borrower has made progress, satisfactory to the Bank, in the 
implementation of the Tax Reform Action Plan including, in particular, in 
respect of:
(a)
the elimination of the earmarking of the Borrower’s income 
tax, value added tax, excise taxes and trade taxes;
(b)
 the elimination of at least 20 of the taxes yielding each 
less than 0.2% of the Borrower’s fiscal revenues during calendar year 
1999;
(c)
the reduction of the financial transactions tax to no more 
than 0.25 percent;
(d)
the increase of the rate of the Borrower’s value added tax 
to a level acceptable to the Bank
and the elimination of the exemptions 
Page  13
to such tax for the sale of bond paper and the delivery of professional 
services;
(e)
the introduction of an excise tax on domestic fuels with a 
rate of at least twenty-five cents of a dollar ($ 0.25) per gallon
of 
fuel; and 
(f) 
the unification of import tariffs rates and of the temporary 
import surcharge, at levels acceptable to the Bank.
SCHEDULE 5
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (f) (ii) (C) of this Agreement
1.
(a)
The Telecommunications Law has been enacted, a regulatory 
public agency for telecommunications has been established in accordance 
with such law, and such agency has been staffed and is operating with 
budget, internal rules and procedures acceptable to the Bank; and
(b)
the telecommunications regulatory agency referred to in 
paragraph 1 (a) above has issued tariff policies for telecommunications 
services acceptable to the Bank including, in particular, the 
requirements to modify the rates of long distance and domestic rates for 
telecommunications so as to better reflect the cost of providing such 
services.
2.
The Fiscal Control and Auditing Law, and the Public Financial 
Management Law have been enacted.
