Report No. PID8612
Project Name                     Kyrgyz Republic-Technical Assistance (TA) ...
Credit
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Technical Assistance
Project ID                       KGPE69814
Borrower(s)                      Kyrgyz Republic
Implementing Agency              Office of the President
Environment Category             C
Date this PID prepared           January 5, 2000
Projected Board Date             May 15, 2000
1.      Background.   The Kyrgyz Republic's transition to a market economy
started in 1990, when access to electricity, roads, telecommunications
reached adequate levels and the necessary infrastructure and networks were in
place and maintained.   The loss of direct transfers from Moscow following the
breakup of the FSU, the terms of trade shocks and the country's inability to
restructure the productive sectors resulted in roughly a 60 percent decline
in GDP during the first half of the 1990s. During 1996 and 1997, the economy
experienced a strong recovery of 7 percent and 10 percent, respectively, led
by agriculture, which benefited from good weather conditions. By end-1998,
agriculture's share in GDP had increased to 44 percent, from 35 percent in
1990, while non-gold manufacturing fell to 11 percent, from 28 percent in
1990. The Russian crisis hit the economy in the latter half of 1998, halting
output recovery and weakening initiatives that had started to contain social
erosion. Output declined in real terms as a result of the real exchange rate
shocks and the loss of export markets. The economy expanded by only 2.1
percent in 1998, and growth may not even reach this rate in 1999. The
proposed project seeks to strengthen Government institutional capacity to:
(i) strengthen public finances by improving revenue administration and
extending cost recovery in the energy sector; (ii) achieve sustained economic
growth by supporting private sector development and participation in the
energy sector; and (iii) improve governance by strengthening the regulatory
institution in the energy sector.
2.      Project Scope and Objectives.   The proposed Technical Assistance (TA)
project is intended to help implement reform measures under the Consolidated
Structural Adjustment Credit (CSAC) by building and strengthening the
country's institutional capacity to improve: (i) the business environment,
(ii) revenue administration and (iii) the financial conditions for energy
utility companies and to initiate their restructuring and privatization. The
proposed project will provide auditing and consulting services, training, gas
meters and office equipment to strengthen Government capacities in the above-
mentioned areas.
3.      Environmental Aspects.   In accordance with the Association's Operational
Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01, Annex E), the proposed
project is expected to be placed in Category "C" and does not require an
environmental assessment.



4.      Benefits.   The proposed Project would support fiscal adjustment, improve
the business environment and strengthen financial conditions and the
operation of utility companies in the energy sector. Support for fiscal
adjustment will help strengthen tax revenue administration, formulate better
tax policy, diminish distortions in the business environment and improve tax
revenues. Support for improving the business environment will help simplify
regulations relating to starting-up businesses, reducing the time and cost of
licensing procedures, and decreasing the number and the cost of business
inspections. The private sector's willingness to operate in a conducive
environment and undertake the necessary investment will be positively
reflected in the country's output recovery and sustained economic growth.
Supporting energy sector reform will help place the energy utility services
on a sustainable path, enhance efficiency and achieve sustainable lower
prices, improve quality of services, encourage private capital investment in
the electric distribution companies and the KyrgyzGaz and help to address the
energy sector's chronic need for repairs and replacement.
5.      Potential Risks.   Three potential risks exist that are associated with
the proposed project:
(i) political support and Government commitment to improving business
environment, tax reforms and privatization of energy utility companies may
weaken; (ii) implementation of the agreed regulatory and institutional
measures may weaken.; and (iii) lack of coordination within the Government to
make timely decisions and approval on actual transfer of public enterprises
to private sector significant lag in private sector response to divestiture
opportunities.
6.      The risks minimizing measures include: (i) strengthening World
Bank/Government policy dialogue; (ii) public information campaign to explain
regulatory functions and implementation of reforms under the Consolidated
Structural Adjustment Credit; and (iii) public information campaign to help
address stakeholders' concerns and advanced notice to potential domestic and
foreign private buyers.
Contact points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H St., NW
Washington, D.C., 20433
Tel: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Mohammad Reza Ghasimi
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C., 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-6858
Fax:        (202) 522-2751
Note: This is information on an envolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
- 2 -



Processed by the InfoShop week ending January 14, 2000.
- 3 -



