Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20432-KG
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR3.8 MILLION (US$5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
MAY 25, 2000
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
(as of May 6,2000)
Currency Unit = Som
US$1 = 48.0353 Som
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADB          Asian Development Bank
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CIS          Commonwealth of Independent States
CPC          Committee for the Protection of Competition
CSAC         Consolidation Structural Adjustment Credit
DFID         Department for International Development
DH           District Heating
DISCO        Distribution Companies
EBRD         European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ESAF         Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EU-TACIS    European Union-Technical Assistance for Commonwealth of Independent States
FSU          Former Soviet Union
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GOKR         Government of Kyrgyz Republic
IAS          International Accounting Standards
IDA          International Development Association
EMF          International Monetary Fund
KE           Kyrgyzenergo
KG           Kyrgyzgas
KR           Kyrgyz Republic
MoF          Ministry of Finance
MoJ          Ministry of Justice
MoLSP        Ministry of Labor & Social Protection
NPV          Net Present Value
OD           Operational Directives
PHRD         Policy and Human Resources Development
PRGF         Poverty Reduction Growth Facility
SCI          State Customs ispectorate
SDR          Special Drawing Rights
SEA          State Energy Agency
SPF          State Property Fund
STI          State Tax Inspectorate
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
VAT          Value Added Tax
WTO          World Trade Organization
Vice President: Johannes Linn
Country Director: Kiyoshi Kodera
Sector Director: Pradeep Mitra
Team Leader: M.R. Ghasimi



The Kyrgyz Republic
Technical Assistance Credit
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ..................................................................2
1. Project development objective ..................................................................2
2. Key performance indicators ..................................................................2
B. Strategic Context ..................................................................2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the Project .........2
2. Relationship with CSAC ..................................................................2
3. Main sector issues and Government strategy ..................................................................2
4. Sector issues to be addressed by the Project and strategic choices .................................8
C. Project Description Summary ..................................................................9
1. Project components ..................................................................9
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the Project ..................................... 10
3. Benefits and target population .................................................................                                                                 10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ............................................................  11
5. Coordination with other donors .................................................................                                                                 11
D. Project Rationale .................................................................                                                                                             11
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ............................................. 11
2. Major related Projects financed by the Bank ............................................................... 12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the Project design ...................................................... 12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ................................................... 12
5. Value added of Bank support in this Project ................................................................. 13
E. Issues Requiring Special Attention .................................................................                                                                            13
1. Economic .................................................................                                                                                      13
2. Financial .................................................................                                                                                      14
3. Technical .................................................................                                                                                       14
4. Institutional .................................................................                                                                                   14
5. Social .................................................................                                                                                         14
6. Environmental assessment .................................................................                                                                       14
7. Participatory approach .................................................................                                                                         14
F. Sustainability and Risks .................................................................                                                                                      15
1. Sustainability .................................................................                                                                                15
2. Critical Risks .................................................................                                                                                  15



G. Main Credit Conditions                          ........................ 16
H. Readiness for Implementation .16
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .16
Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.     Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5.     Financial Summary
Annex 6.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table Al.    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table A2.    Consultants Selection Arrangements
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table Cl.    Procurement Plan for the Project
Table C2.    Procurement Plan for PPF
Table D.     Procurement Information
Table E.     Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Table F.     Procurement Capacity Assessment
Table G.     Procurement Capacity Assessment, Summary and Actions
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.     Documents in Project File
Annex 9.     Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Financial Management
Annex 11.    Summary of Project Implementation Plan
Annex 12.    Kyrgyz Republic at a Glance
Map          IBRD26822R1



The Kyrgyz Republic
Technical Assistance Credit
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia
ECSPE
Date: May 25 2000                                 Team Leader: M.R. Ghasimi
Country Director: K. Kodera                       Sector Director: Pradeep Mitra
Project ID: P069814                               Sector: Economic Management
Lending Instrument: IDA Technical Assistance Credit   Theme(s): Economic Management
Poverty Targeted Intervention:   [   Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data
[] Loan    [X] Credit       [ ] Grant     [i] Guarantee    [ ] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: US$5 Million Equivalent
Proposed terms:   [ I To be defined   [X] Multicurrency     [ ] Single currency
pIa Standard Variable   [ I Fixed        [1 LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):   .   10
Years to maturity:          40
Commitment fee:             NA
Service charge:            0.75%
Front-end fee on Bank loan:   NA
Financing
plan(US$Million)
Source                                                Local            Foreign           Total
Government                                              0.500            0                0.500
IBRD
IDA                                                     0.554            4.446            5.000
Other (specify)
Total:                                                  1.054            4.446            5.500
Borrower: Kyrgyz Republic
Guarantor: NA
Responsible agency: Project Implementation Unit, State Property Fund
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
FY                2001        2002        2003         2004
Annual            0.950       1.350       1.100       1.600
Cumulative        0.950       2.300       3.400       5.000
Project implementation period: January 1, 2000 to January 1, 2004
Expected effectiveness date: July 2000             Expected closing date: July 31, 2004
Implementing agency: Project Implementation Unit
Contact person: Mr. Kurmanbek Ukulov (PIU Director)
Address: Project Implementation Unit (PIU), Kyrgyz Republic
Dom Pravitelstva, 205 Chui Prospect, Bishkek, the Kyrgyz Republic
Tel: 996 312 220202/228736   Fax: 996 312 664294               E-mail: E-mail: termir@rhl.bishkek.su



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The proposed Technical Assistance Credit (TAC) is intended to help implement reform measures under
the Consolidation Structural Adjustment Credit (CSAC).  It builds and strengthens the country's
institutional capacity to: (i) improve the business environment; (ii) improve revenue mobilization; and
(iii) support energy sector reform.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-Related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Goal Supported by the Project (see Annex 1)
The Credit is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for the Kyrgyz Republic discussed
by the Board on May 7, 1998. It supports the main objectives of the CAS and seeks to: (i) strengthen
public finances by improving revenue mobilization and promoting cost recovery in the energy sector; (ii)
achieve sustained economic growth by supporting private sector development and participation in the
energy sector; and (iii) improve governance by strengthening the regulatory framework in the energy
sector and business environment.
CAS document number: 17641-KG.                 Date of latest CAS discussion: May 7, 1998.
2. Relationship with CSAC
As part of the Kyrgyz Republic's reform program, the Government, with assistance from the World Bank,
is preparing the CSAC, the main objective of which is to improve the fiscal and business environment
while preserving a minimum acceptable level of access and quality of utility service for the poorest
elements of society. To achieve these objectives, the proposed CSAC supports the Government's ability
to: (i) reform tax systems to reduce distortions and enhance equity in the tax system while improving
revenue mobilization; (ii) reduce regulations on business entry and operation and enhance the competitive
environment; (iii) improve the financial condition of energy utilities and begin their privatization and (iv)
strengthen the social protection system to at least partially compensate the poor for energy utility tariff
increases.
CSAC supports implementation of a comprehensive set of structural and institutional changes. The
Government of the Kyrgyz Republic considers its existing institutional capacity insufficient to undertake
all the reform measures required under CSAC, and has requested the proposed TAC from the World Bank
to support the structural and institutional reforms agreed under the CSAC.
The TAC provides support to: (i) improve the business environment by providing technical assistance to
help implement decrees on business start-up procedures and inspections and carry out a diagnostic survey
and analyses; (ii) improve revenue mobilization through technical assistance support for Government
initiatives to strengthen the State Custom Inspectorate (SCI)'s institutional capacity and improve the
interface between the SCI and the State Tax Inspectorate (STI); (iii) support energy sector reform by
providing technical assistance to strengthen the State Energy Agency's institutional and technical
capacity, privatize Kyrgyzgas (KG) and electricity distribution companies, improve the financial situation
of KG, finance an intemational audit for KG, and implement a social compensation strategy to
accompany energy tariff increases.
3. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy
The Kyrgyz Republic began its transition to a market economy in 1990. At that time, access to
electricity, roads and telecommunications had reached adequate levels and the necessary infrastructure



Page 3
and networks, though aging and poorly maintained for several years, were in place. The loss of direct
transfers from Moscow following the breakup of the FSU, the terms of trade shocks, and the country's
inability to restructure its productive sectors resulted in an approximately 60 percent decline in GDP
during the first half of the 1990s. Led by agriculture, which benefited from good weather conditions, in
1996 and 1997, the economy experienced a strong recovery of 7 percent and 10 percent, respectively. By
end-1998, agriculture's share in GDP had increased to 44 percent, from 35 percent in 1990, while non-
gold manufacturing fell to 11 percent, from 28 percent in 1990. The Russian crisis hit the economy in the
latter half of 1998, halting output recovery and weakening initiatives that had begun to contain social
erosion. Output declined in real terms as a result of the real exchange rate shocks and the loss of export
markets. The economy expanded by only 2.1 percent in 1998. The Government estimates 1999 GDP
growth at around 3.6 percent. While monetary policy was tight in 1999, inflation advanced by 40 percent,
due to higher import prices. The trade balance improved in 1999, due mainly to a decline in imports. The
overall budget deficit worsened because of accelerated construction of large public investment projects,
such as the Bishkek - Osh road and the Bishkek airport.
The country's prospects for economic recovery and macroeconomic stability hinge on continued fiscal
consolidation aimed at reducing the fiscal deficit through carrying out revenue mobilization and
expenditure control and rationalization policies and improving the country's infrastructure and trade links.
A second year Poverty Reduction Growth Facility (PRGF), previously referred to as ESAF, to support
macroeconornic stabilization, was discussed and approved by the IMF Board on February 9, 2000. The
Government realizes that sustainable economic growth also depends on adopting structural reforms,
including reducing state's role in commercial activities and improving the business environment to
promote private sector activities. The energy sector plays a crucial role in the structural reform program.
(i) Improve the Business Enviromnent
Private sector promotion is one of the Government's major reform priorities since economic development
and output recovery hinges on expanding the private sector's role in the economy. Sustained economic
development cannot be achieved without policy actions aimed at promoting the private sector in a
competitive, distortion-free business environment. Small enterprises have substantially contributed to the
Kyrgyz Republic's economic development, accounting for 18 percent of GDP in 1998. Private sector
growth is primarily occurring through small enterprise expansion in trade, commerce and agriculture.
Increased competition from abroad following trade liberalization, recent admission to the World Trade
Organization (WTO), and reduced budget support to public enterprises and state farms are other factors
encouraging private sector activities.
The Kyrgyz Republic's private sector, however, faces significant challenges in establishing and operating
viable business activities. In some cases, regulations are numerous, unwarranted, conflicting and/or
unevenly enforced. Although the Law on Corporate Registration has reduced the time for registering a
business with the Ministry of Justice, it can still take weeks to establish a new business. Once registered,
the private business must obtain a number of licenses, requiring time consumning and expensive
documentation, before engaging in economic activity. When a business is finally operational, it faces a
multitude of inspections. The frequency of inspections and the power of inspectors can nullify the rights
of business owners in many instances. If the business imports products, it faces excessive requirements
for customs clearances and product certification to comply with state standards, adding to private sector
impediments. The overall result is a an unfavorable business and investment environment that hampers
the country's efforts to attract foreign and domestic investment and creates incentives for rent-seeking
behavior and corruption. The regulatory requirements' adverse effect on new business start-ups is
illustrated by the stagnation in the number of active businesses between 1993 and 1997. Since 1997, the
number of newly registered businesses has increased only marginally and the number of new firms that
are actually operational has also been relatively insignificant.



Page 4
The most critical step for improving the business environment is to provide a transparent, just and non-
discriminatory framework in which private enterprises can operate. Policy measures that ensure: (i)
fairness in the operation of the tax and customs collection systems; (ii) an appropriate and suitably
enforced legislative and regulatory framework; (iii) a strong judicial system; and (iv) proper standards of
public administration play a key role in establishing such a framework. Weak implementation of these
measures will hamper private sector development. In particular, tolerance of illegal business practices,
especially evasion of customs duties and taxes, will place compliant businesses at a competitive
disadvantage and slow the Kyrgyz Republic's investment and economic growth.
The Government is committed to improving its relations with private businesses, including reforming tax
and customs administration and agricultural regulations. It has taken many steps to simplify business
start-up procedures. Government Resolutions 47 and 57 (January and February 2000) eliminated many
requirements for small businesses. Reform of the licensing system is underway. A Presidential Decree
(February 2000) and several Government Resolutions limit the duration and frequency of business
inspections, and the Committee for Development and Protection of Competition (CPC) has become
responsible for coordinating inspections. The Government plans to further improve the business
environment by eliminating most of the remaining regulatory barriers to economic activity. Reforms
focus on further reducing the time and cost required to start up a business, simplifying the licensing
procedures and reducing the number of inspections as well as related costs. These measures should create
a conducive regulatory framework, in which rules are clear and serve a justified purpose, and regulatory
enforcement does not unjustly interrupt normal business activity or impose additional costs on business
operation. The Government's strategy emphasizes transparency and consistency of rules and enforcement
to induce and sustain private sector activities.
(ii) Improve Revenue Mobilization
Establishing a modern tax system in the Kyrgyz Republic is another key Government priority. The
Government is committed to continued reform of the tax structure and revenue mobilization, with the
objective of encouraging economic growth and providing sufficient revenues to finance required basic
services. The ratio of tax revenue to GDP, excluding payroll taxes for social security, has fallen from 18
percent in 1991 to 12.5 percent in 1996 and 1997. In 1998 and 1999, tax revenues were 14.2 percent and
15 percent of GDP, respectively, due to higher indirect tax revenues resulting from an import
consumption boom and tax arrears collection. Direct tax revenues, however, remained low. The State
Customs Inspectorate (SCI) and the State Tax Inspectorate (STI) share VAT and excise tax collection
functions. The SCI, which is responsible for collecting VAT and excise taxes on imports and customs
duties, collects about half of tax revenues. The STI is responsible for collecting VAT and excise taxes on
domestic production, and all other taxes. Integrating key functions of tax and customs administrations
and even tax treatment across industries and between imported and domestic goods are essential to ensure
that the economy expands with non-distortionary tax systems.
The SCI has only been in existence for eight years. Its capacity to deal with the complexities of modern
customs requirements is not fully developed. It does not have a sufficiently experienced and trained staff
and needs a widely recognized and well-defined strategy and an operational plan. In addition, rapid staff
turnover, particularly at senior and middle management levels, causes instability that reduces staff morale
and undermines technical competence and effective management control. Building and strengthening the
capacity to support SCI reform and modernization is a high ranking Government priority.
The Government recognizes that its tax and revenue mobilization policies are critical for meeting its
essential obligations to the population and is committed to eliminating key tax distortions and to
strengthening revenue mobilization. This requires integrated and simultaneous development of the STI
and SCI. Each agency collects data through administrative processes that are important to the effective
administration of the other. The STI and SCI interface of most revenue collecting functions and increased
coordination of their activities is essential to support more effective revenue collection and to reduce



Page 5
revenue leakage. Increased coordination will reduce administrative costs for the collecting agencies and
compliance costs for businesses that interface with both agencies and increase revenues. Similar
organizational arrangements and a timely exchange of information between the two agencies are
necessary to coordinate their functions. Identifying taxpayers and assigning a unique taxpayer number,
sharing information in fraud investigations and taxpayer audits, creating information systems, including
automation of import and export declarations and training, are all areas that should be highly coordinated.
While some technical assistance has been provided to the STI, SCI lacks the technical assistance support
required to strengthen its capacity. The Government plans to strengthen the SCI' s capacity and considers
a high degree of coordination between the STI and SCI vital for achieving low compliance costs and
limiting distortions in the economy.
(iii) Support Energy Sector Reform
The energy sector is at the center of the country's macroeconomic imbalance. Implicit subsidies for
electricity, heating and gas estimated at about 9 percent of GDP, almost the same as the general
Government budget deficit, impose a serious fiscal burden. In the gas sector, inadequate revenues create
the continuing threat that the country will be cut off for non-payment by its supplier, since the country is
almost entirely dependent on imported gas.  Inadequate domestic prices and large technical and
commercial losses in the gas sector have resulted in growing external arrears and debt. Inappropriate
pricing for the output of energy utilities has resulted in over consumption, a large backlog of necessary
investment, and insufficient maintenance for the existing installations.
The Government intends to undertake a comprehensive reform program in the energy sector to ensure the
financial viability of energy utility companies. The services supplied by the energy companies are both
socially important and vital to economic growth, providing crucial inputs to other sectors. Improving the
financial condition of these companies and establishing a sound regulatory environment will place them
on the path to sustainable growth and facilitate provision of reliable services and private sector
participation in the energy sector. The Government's energy strategy focuses on strengthening regulatory
institutions and sectoral reform, eliminating losses and improving technical and financial performance.
Privatization of the electricity and gas industries plays a central role in this program. The Government
recognizes that private ownership and competitive market forces are crucial in the effort to introduce
commercial management techniques, substantially enhance payments discipline, improve cost recovery,
reduce costs and stimulate badly needed foreign and domestic investment in the energy sector. The
Government has already focused on the urgent need to improve the financial condition of energy utilities
by undertaking difficult and politically sensitive measures, including utility tariff hikes and initiating
restructuring and privatizing energy utility companies.
(iiia) Strengthen the Regulatory Capacity of the State Energy Agency
The Kyrgyz Republic was one of the first FSU countries to establish sectoral economic regulatory bodies,
which is a significant step that has begun to create the right environment. The State Energy Agency
(SEA) and the National Communications Agency (NCA) cover the energy (electricity, gas and district
heating) and telecommunications sectors, respectively. The Government now faces the challenge of
privatizing energy utility companies and introducing greater levels of competition and accountability in
the energy sector. Plans to privatize the energy sector require clarifying the institutional arrangements for
energy utility regulation and bolstering SEA's technical capacities, so that it can better fulfill its legal
mandate to balance the interests of producers and consumers and promote competition. The role and
complexity of the SAE's task will dramatically increase following the unbundling of the vertically integrated
monopolistic energy sector into separate generation, transmission and distribution entities and the presence of
private sector players in the market.
In order to support the structural reform and privatization of the energy utility companies, the
Government plans to enhance the SEA's independence from both regulated firms and short-term political



Page 6
pressures. The Government is in the process of submitting legislation to Parliament that would make it
clear that the SEA alone is responsible for regulating energy, including the setting of tariffs and profit
margins. The Government recognizes the importance of protecting SEA' s independence from short-term
political pressures and protecting the agency's Board from arbitrary dismissal, as well as ensuring
adequate funding through industry levies and licensing fees. The Government will also move to improve
the transparency of the regulatory process by requiring the SEA to publish its decisions and the reasons
for those decisions. The Government intends to publish and use clear rules for issuing new licenses that
promote, wherever feasible, an open and competitive process.
(iiib) Restructure and Privatize Electricity Distribution Companies
Electricity reform is high on the Govermment's agenda. Significant losses continue to result from: (i)
electricity and district heating tariffs that are well below cost recovery; (ii) high technical and commercial
losses; (iii) inadequate investment to prevent rapid erosion of distribution network's assets and low or
non-existent incentives for cost minimization; and (iv) poor financial and management skills. The
Government's reform program in the electricity sector seeks to:
*  improve efficiency in investment and drive costs down;
* achieve financial viability, cut losses and reduce the growing backlog of maintenance, repair and
modernization needs;
* attract reputable investors under the best possible terms for both the Government and consumers; and
* restore the system to 24-hour quality power as the basis for economic development throughout the
country.
The urgent need to raise funds to finance improvements in the electricity distribution sector is one of the
main reasons behind the launch of the privatization program for Kyrgyzenergo (KE), approved by a
Government Resolution in April 1997. Additionally, raising tariffs to cost-covering levels over a
reasonable time-frame to encourage efficient use of energy and capital will help mobilize funds to cover
operating and expansion costs. Furthermore, the Govermnent plans to:
*  unbundle the system vertically into separate generation, transmission and distribution units so that
costs can be clearly identified and reduced through improved efficiency;
* unbundle the system horizontally into independent and financially viable distribution companies and
separate generation companies, based on market considerations, as soon as possible so that
competition through "benchmarking" or market forces can drive costs down;
*  begin to restructure and privatize the distribution companies after completing a plan to separate
electricity distribution from transmission and generation; and
*  establish explicit, targeted subsidies for energy supplied to very low income households to
alleviate the economic hardship of reform on the most vulnerable population.
Moving forward with privatization of the distribution network will help mobilize the financial resources
necessary for investment. If losses are reduced, the effective utilization of generating capacity would not
present a constraint for many years. Attracting private capital and management expertise is critical in the
distribution sub-sector because the problem of large commercial losses can be addressed and this sub-
sector has the greatest potential for new investment.
(iiic) Undertake Financial Restructuring of Kyrgyzgas
As previously noted, KG' s weak financial management has resulted in large commercial losses, poor cash
payment rates and high levels of account receivables. Under-billing and un-metered household
consumers are some of the main causes of the financial losses. According to KG, un-metered households
consumed 22% of distributed gas in 1998. Another 21% of distributed gas was reported as a loss. It is



Page 7
likely that a large proportion of these losses are commercial, rather than technical, since un-metered
household consumption is measured on the basis of assumed levels of service that are usually below
actual usage. Accurate measurement and the ability to distinguish between commercial and technical
losses will not be possible until there is an accurate metering system. In addition to inadequate billing,
cash collection rates are low, with uncollected bills totaling more than US$1 million in 1998. To support
the Government's efforts to restructure and privatize the company, KG's financial viability must be
strengthened and billing and collections improved. The Government's irnmediate strategy focuses on
adopting measures to increase metering, reduce account receivables and increase collections.
(iiid) Audit Kyrgyzgas and Kyrgyzgasmunaizat
The Government recognizes that privatizing KG will provide the strongest incentives for reducing losses
and improving KG's operational and financial performance. To provide essential basic financial
information to KG's potential purchasers, accounts audited to international standards must provide actual
company costs and a realistic assessment of assets and liabilities. The Government plans to employ an
international audit company to audit accounts of KG and Kyrgyzgasmunaizat for fiscal years 1998 and
1999.
(iiie) Initiate Privatization of Kyrgyzgas
The financial under-performance of Kyrgyzgas (KG) has made it difficult to pay for the imported gas on
which the country largely depends. KG purchased gas at around US$27.5 million in 1998 from
Uzbekistan for distribution within the Kyrgyz Republic. Billings to consumers totaled less than US$18
m-iillion and the overall financial loss in 1998 was between US$8 million and US$13 million. Payment
arrears to Uzbekistan and a private gas transit company, Intergaz, periodically result in the country's gas
supply being cut off (as was the case from May to October 1998; April to September 1999; and again in
January 2000). Payment arrears also put the country in a position of having to import gas at prices
substantially higher ($US$50/000 cubic meters) than if it were in a position to pay cash and on time
(US$32 to $38). The KG is also in arrears on short-term debt to the Government and commnercial banks.
The company's financial situation has worsened, due to depreciation of the exchange rate resulting from
the Russian crisis.
The Government's energy program gives high priority to improving KG's financial performance and
operational efficiency. Since gas subsidies to both enterprises and consumers currently put considerable
pressure on the national budget, the Government raised tariffs in January 2000 to $70.38 per 1000m3
(exclusive of VAT) for all consumers. For privileged consumers, the basic tariff, from which various
discounts are provided, was raised by 20% in January, 20% in April 2000 and will be the same as the
non-privileged households effective July 2000. Stronger incentives to improve operational and financial
performance will be provided by privatizing KG. The Government has devised a privatization strategy
and has submitted a privatization concept paper to Parliament. In this plan, privatization of transmission
and distribution companies is to take place in 2001. As was noted in section (iiid), an audit will be
conducted to provide basic financial information to potential purchasers of KG' s businesses.
(iiif) Mitigate Social Impact of Energy Sector Reform
Sustainable structural reform in the energy sector requires a dramatic increase in cost recovery from
households. However, the current tariffs level, which covers less than 45 percent of costs estimated by
the SEA, already imposes a painful burden, given income levels, on a large part of the population. The
lowest quintile for households plagued by extreme poverty currently uses about 20 percent of their
expenditures on energy utilities and fuel (including coal), while the average household spends Som 230
per month, representing 11 percent of household income. Proposed tariff increases for 2000 would raise
the burden on household income to 16 percent on average and 30 percent for the extreme poor. While



Page 8
poverty is higher in rural than in urban areas, poverty growth in recent years has been greater in urban
areas, making the adverse impact of energy tariff increases much more pronounced in these areas.
To mitigate the impact of raising tariffs, the Government plans to implement, monitor and assess a social
assistance compensation strategy for predominantly urban areas undergoing significant household energy
utility tariff increases. The Government has examined a number of proposals for the compensation
scheme, which will be targeted at poor households not covered by the current social protection system.
The Government is aware that targeting is key. A well-targeted energy tariff social safety net must
replace the present policy of keeping tariffs low for everyone and providing non means-tested discounts
and privileges.
Another critical issue for the Government is devising a plan to administer the new scheme. The capacity
of the social assistance administration is limited, and targeting promises to introduce new complexities, as
well as to require urban offices to process a large number of new applications for eligibility assessments.
The Government plans to ensure that the compensation scheme is transparent, efficient and cost-effective,
and to focus on strengthening the social administration's ability to manage the new compensation scheme
by training staff involved in administering it.
(iiig) Design and Implement Energy Sector Public Relations Campaign
The Government places high priority in ensuring the success of the privatization program for the
electricity and gas sectors. In addition to the social mitigation strategy intended to compensate urban
dwellers for tariff increases, it plans to carry out an intensive public relations campaign to make certain
that the population understands both the necessity and long-term benefits of privatization and related
measures. The Government plans to employ a public relations (PR) company to prepare educational
information on the necessity of tariff increases and privatization of the energy sector, explaining how
these measures will help attract foreign investment, provide new technology and inject additional capital
into the economy. Using media and other effective means of communication, this information will be
broadly disseminated to the general public, universities, parliament, selected government agencies, NGOs
and civil societies.
4. Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices:
The proposed Project will support Government:
*  efforts to remove constraints that impede private sector activities, simplify business start-up
regulations, make business licensing procedures more consistent and predictable, and decrease
the number and cost of business inspections;
*  initiatives aimed at enhancing revenue collection by helping to strengthen institutional capacity in
the SCI and improve coordination between tax and custom administrations by financing
consultant services, training and office technology for the SCI;
* plans to strengthen SEA's institutional and technical capacity to establish a financially
independent and transparent regulatory institution by providing long-term resident advisors,
training programs and office technology;
*  plans to strengthen the capacity of the State Property Fund (SPF) to privatize the electricity
distribution companies and KG;
*  strategies to strengthen the financial condition of KG and reduce technical and commercial losses
by: (i) providing a financial advisor to KG to strengthen its capacity to reduce technical and
commercial losses and assist in billing and collection; (ii) financing the purchase of gas meters,



Page 9
materials and equipment for installing gas meters; and (iii) financing an international audit of KG
and Kyrgyzgasmunaizat's financial accounts for 1998 and 1999;
*  plans to implement, monitor and assess a social assistance compensation strategy for
predominantly urban areas undergoing significant household utility tariff increases; and
*  plans to privatize KG and the electricity distribution companies through the design and
implementation of a public relations campaign to explain the necessity and long-term benefits of
privatization and energy tariff increases.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project Components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
The proposed Project will provide consulting and audit services, training, gas meters, parts, materials, and
equipment for installing gas meters and office equipment to strengthen Government capacity to improve
the following:
(i) Business Environment. This component will support implementation of the decrees on improving
business start-up procedures and business inspections by:
*  simplifying regulations related to starting-up businesses;
* making business licensing procedures more consistent and predictable;
* reducing time and costs associated with licensing procedures; and
* decreasing the number and cost of business inspections.
The component will help finance mainly local consultants to conduct surveys to assess and monitor the
effectiveness of implemented reform measures. This will lead to greater understanding of the challenges
faced by the private sector and provide the necessary framework for the Government to design an action
plan and deepen reforms, ensuring significant improvement in private business operation.
(ii) Revenue Mobilization. This component will finance consultants and office equipment to support
Government initiatives aimed at improving revenue mobilization, strengthening the SCI's institutional
capacity and improving the interface between the SCI and the STI.
(iii) Energy Sector Reforms. This component will strengthen the SEA's regulatory capacity, help the
Government privatize electricity distribution companies and the KG, assist with conducting an
international audit of KG and Kyrgyzgasmunaizat and purchase gas meters, parts, equipment and
materials to install gas meters and procure office equipment. Specifically the component will:
*  strengthen the SEA's institutional and technical capacity to establish a financially independent
and transparent regulatory framework by providing long-term resident advisors, training
progrars and office technology;
* finance advisors in the SPF to improve its capacity to privatize electricity distribution companies
and take the necessary steps for conducting a transparent and competitive sale of gas company
shares;
*  strengthen the KG's financial situation and reduce technical and commercial losses by: (i)
providing a financial advisor to KG to strengthen its capacity to reduce technical and commercial
losses and to assist in billing and collection; (ii) financing the purchase of gas meters, materials,
parts and equipment for installing gas meters; and (iii) financing an international audit of KG and
Kyrgyzgasmunaizat's financial accounts for 1998 and 1999;



Page 1 0
* support the Government's capacity to implement, monitor and assess a social assistance
compensation strategy for predominantly urban areas undergoing significant household utility
tariff increases; and
*  support the privatization of KG and the electricity distribution companies through the design and
implementation of a public relations campaign to explain the necessity and long-term benefits of
privatization and energy tariff increases.
(iv) Project Management Support. This component will provide consultants, training and office
equipment to the Project Implementation Unit and will finance its incremental operating costs.
Component                           Category  Indicative  % of  Bank         % of
Costs      Total Financing  Bank
_   _  (ITS$M)    (US$M)   Financing
1. ImpToving Business Environment   Capacity   0.119      2      0.119       100
building
2. Improving Revenue mobilization   Capacity   0.331       6     0.331       100
building
3. Supporting Reforms in the Energy  Capacity   3.928      72    3.928       100
Sector                              building
4. Supporting Project Management,   Capacity   1.122       20    0.622       55
Other Technical Assistance, and     building
Contingencies
Total                                           5.5        100   5.0         90
2. Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project:
(i) strengthening public finances by improving revenue mobilization;
(ii) extending cost recovery principles and reducing the drain posed by the energy sector's
unsustainable deficits through complementing public investment with private capital and
establishing a foundation for the energy sector to become a major taxpayer;
(iii) attaining sustained economic growth by reducing tax distortions that harm the business
environment, reducing regulatory impediments to private sector activity, and supporting private
participation in the energy sector; and
(iv) strengthening regulatory institutions and governance by supporting their technical capacities
and maintaining their independence from political influences.
3. Benefits and Target Population
The proposed Credit would support fiscal adjustment, improve the business environment and strengthen
financial conditions and operation of utility companies in the energy sector. Support for fiscal adjustment
will help strengthen tax revenue mobilization, formulate better tax policy and diminish distortions in the
business environment. Improving the business environment will help simplify business start-up, reduce
the time and cost of licensing procedures and decrease the number of business inspections and associated
costs. The private sector's willingness to operate in a conducive environment and undertake the
necessary investment will contribute to the country's output recovery and sustained economic growth.
Energy sector reform will help place energy utility services on a sustainable path, enhance efficiency and
achieve lower costs, improve quality of services, encourage private capital investment in the electricity



Page 1 1
distribution companies and the KG and help to address the energy sector's chronic need for repairs and
replacement.
4. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
The proposed Credit is expected to be implemented over a four-year period through a Project
Implementation Unit (PIU). As reflected in the Decree of the President of Kyrgyz Republic of April 4,
2000, the PRI is located in the SPF and reports directly to the Chairman of the SPF. The PIU will draw
upon the experience and skills gained by the Kyrgyz local staff in implementing various World Bank
projects. The Government has hired the Director of the PIU and the essential procurement and financial
management systems experts. Under the proposed TAC, the PIR is expected to help the beneficiary
agencies contract consultant services, procure office equipment, gas meters, parts, materials and
equipment for installing gas meters, manage Project funds and monitor its implementation progress. Joint
supervision of the TAC and CSAC will be carried out by an advisory committee, in which all beneficiary
agencies are active members. This will ensure the participation of beneficiary agencies in Project
implementation. The PRY will work closely with the advisory committee and all the beneficiary agencies
to help select consultants, procure goods, manage Project funds and monitor Project implementation
progress. The consultants are expected to work closely under the supervision of the PIR, and their
recommendations will be discussed jointly with the PRU and the beneficiary agencies to ensure proper
coordination.
5. Coordination with Other Donors
Close coordination with other donors will be an essential feature of the proposed Credit and will play an
important role in successful Project implementation. Consultants under the proposed TAC will work
closely with consultants financed by IMF (customs and tax policy), EBRD (privatization of the first
distribution company) and ADB (power transmission sub-sector).  Close cooperation will also be
encouraged with consultants funded by TACIS (assistance to SEA), the Government of Japan (studies on
energy reform), and under various grants, including PHRD grants, the UK Department of International
Development (DFHD) (studies on the social impact of energy tariff increases), and USAID (tax policy).
D: Project Rationale
1. Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection
Two project alternatives were considered and rejected. The concept of an IDA umbrella of technical
assistance including other areas, such as support for privatizing Kyrgyz Telecom, was rejected because
such an expanded project would have been difficult to manage and implement. A simpler project with
fewer advisory services and more focus on office technology and gas meters was rejected because it did
not adequately address the need to strengthen the Government's capacity in key priority areas. In
addition, direct project management and implementation by the MoF, KE, KG, SEA and SPF was
rejected in favor of a central PRU, due to the repetitive nature of mobilizing consulting services, training,
procuring office equipment, gas meters, parts and materials for meter installation, disbursement, and
financial management systems, and the difficulties of building or improving these capacities quickly.



Page 12
2. Major related active projects financed by the Bank
Project               Sector                  Latest Supervision      Latest Supervision
Rating Dev. Obj        Rating Imp. Prog
KG-PE-8518            TELECOMMUNICATIONS                 S                      S
KG-PE-8515            SOCIAL SAFETY NET                  S                      S
KG-PE-8524            PRIV. ENTERP. SUPP.                S                      S
KG-PE-45631           FINANCIAL SEC. TECH.              HS                      S
KG-PE-8523            HEALTH                            HS                      HS
KG-PE-8519            POWER & DIST. HEAT                 S                      U
KG-PE-8513            SHEEP & WOOL IMPROV.               U                      S
KG-PE-8520            RURAL FINANCE                      S                      S
KG-PE-46042           IRRIGATION REHAB.                  S                      S
KG-PE-40721           AGRIC. SUPPORT. SERV               S                      U
KG-PE-64585           RURAL FINANCE 11                   S                      S
KG-PE-62682           FLOOD EMERGENCY                    S                      S
KG-PE-38569           SOCIAL SEC. ADJUST.                S                      S
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Proposed Project Design
Institutional capacity has been a major constraint in the Kyrgyz Republic. Technical assistance and
capacity building will be critical elements of the Bank Group strategy in this country. The Kyrgyz
Republic's experience, and similar projects in other transitional economies, highlight the critical
importance of: (i) sustainable political support and commitment at the highest level for necessary tariff
increases and privatization of the energy utility companies; (ii) transparency, ownership and participatory
design from the earliest phase of the reform program to increase investor confidence in the privatization
process; (iii) an ongoing and sustainable reform process driven by the Government, developing clear
guidelines for private sector activities and tax reforms; (iv) realistic goals and hands-on World Bank
supervision; (v) training Government officials directly involved in project design and implementation,
rather than relying heavily on expatriate consultants; and (vi) addressing project implementation issues
proactively and effectively at an early stage.
4. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership
Government commnitment and ownership of the proposed TAC can be assessed as outlined below:
Locus of Initiative
*  The initiative to strengthen formulation and implementation of the reform measures under the
CSAC, to be supported by the proposed Project, has been the borrower's. The program was
originated and is being developed by the Government in close collaboration with IDA and other
donors.
*  In spite of the fact that the year 2000 is very politically charged as Parliamentary elections
occurred in February and Presidential elections are expected to take place before December, there
is some observable consensus among key ministries and decision-makers about the nature of the
issues to be addressed by the CSAC, the supporting TAC and the necessary remedial actions.
Level of Intellectual Conviction among Key Policymakers
*  Diagnosis of issues and a common approach to reform are gradually becoming established in
policymaking circles.



Page 13
* Agreement exists among many policy makers on the nature and causes of the problems and
consensus is emerging on necessary courses of action, although the social cost of reform remains
a major concern of the Government.
Expression of Political Will by Top Leadership
* The Government is initiating specific, up-front actions at the inception of the program, including
electricity and gas tariff increases, unbundling of the vertically integrated electricity sector into
separate generation, transmission and distribution companies to create more market-based
incentives, and hiring a privatization advisor to undertake privatization of one electricity
distribution company.
*  While the authorities are aware of the need for urgent actions to improve revenue mobilization,
business environment and financial conditions of energy utility companies, it may be difficult to
present a strong case for utility tariff hikes to the public, due to the adverse social implications.
The Government has recognized that there is a need for a well-designed public relations (PR)
campaign to explain the importance of the tariff increases and the economic necessity of
undertaking these essential, but arduous, measures.
* The Government has repeatedly indicated that it is determined to move forward, despite the
difficult policy measures that will be undertaken.
Efforts on Consensus-Building Amona Various Constituencies
E The Government plans to launch a public relations campaign to enhance consensus-building
among different constituencies.
* Top policymakers are taking steps to strengthen cooperation among key agencies involved in the
reform program through a consultative process.
5. Value added of Bank support in this Project:
The World Bank has extensive knowledge on reforming energy utility companies in several countries in
the region and, therefore, is in a unique position to furnish practical advice and support to the
Government. Additionally, because of its extensive project experience, the World Bank is well qualified
to advise on privatization and private sector development. The Government has limited capacity to carry
out reforms supported under the CSAC and has requested the assistance of the World Bank. The World
Bank has agreed to help implement reforms in these areas through hands-on supervision of the proposed
Credit with an adequately staffed team. Some of the reforms under the CSAC may threaten existing
vested interests within the Government. The proposed TAC will strengthen the position of those in favor
of energy utility reforms and private sector participation in this sector.
E: Issues Requiring Special Attention
1. Economic
Investments in improving the business environment will help simplify regulations relating to business
start-up, reduce the time and cost of licensing procedures and contribute to the country's output recovery.
Support for improving revenue mobilization will improve Government revenues. Support for energy
sector reforms and privatization of the electric distribution companies and KG will enhance efficiency and
improve quality of services.



Page 14
2. Financial
The required counterpart funding has been agreed upon by the Government. The Government will
maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial
statements in a format acceptable to the Bank and adequately reflect the operations and expenditures
related to the Project. The Project's Special Account has been established.
3. Technical
The Project's main components are well-focused, mutually reinforcing and technically sound. The terms
of reference for all sub-components have been prepared by the Government in close consultation with
IDA. Despite the ambitiousness of the reform measures, the Government has selected the highest priority
areas for which to request institutional capacity support from the TAC. In addition, the Government is
taking into account the country's particular circumstances in designing the energy utility reforms and
strengthening its capacity to implement them and will adopt the reform agenda and timetable accordingly.
The Project design acknowledges the political sensitivity of privatizing the energy utility companies and
will ensure that the process will be demand-led rather than a borrowed model. In addition, the public
relations campaign provided under the TAC will help develop support based on the widespread
understanding about the necessity of the privatization program.
4. Institutional
The Project will be implemented over a four-year period. The PIU will be responsible for timely Project
implementation. The director of the PITJ will act as the coordinator between Government agencies, IDA,
consultants and trainers.
5. Social
While most aspects of the proposed Project are not expected to have a major social impact, privatization
of energy utility companies could have some social impact. The related regulatory reforms supported by
the TAC, the design of the privatization program, and the demand-led aspects of the reforms are expected
to minimize the Project's social impact.  In addition, continuous feedback will be sought from
stakeholders through public information campaigns and surveys.
6. Environmental Assessment
Environmental category:    [ I    A      II]    B     [X]   C
The Project will provide technical assistance, will utilize existing physical facilities, and will have no
negative environmental impact. It is therefore placed in category "C" under Operational Directive 4.01
on Environmental Assessments.
7. Participatory Approach
Participatory approach:    Identification            Preparation       Implementation
Primary beneficiaries and other
affected groups:
CPC, KE, KG, MoF, MoLSP,    CON/COL                  CONICOL           CON/COL
SCI, SEA, and STI
Other donors
IMF, EBRD, ADB, TACIS,      IS/CON                   IS/CON            IS/CON/COL
Government of Japan, the UK
Department of International
Development and the USAID
NOTES: IS = information sharing; CON = consultation; COL = collaboration



Page 15
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Project sustainability will be strengthened by the Government's firm commitment to economic reform
and successful implementation of policies aimed at improving Government revenues, the business
environment, and the financial conditions of energy utility companies. Sustainability also depends on
how successful the Government is in maintaining the perceived transparency of the privatization process,
the willingness of domestic and foreign private investors to invest in the Kyrgyz Republic's energy sector,
and the success of private sector incentives to absorb possible unemployment resulting from privatization
of these enterprises.
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
Risk                    Risk Rating    Risk Mininiization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Political support and Government commitment   S       Strengthening World
to improving business environment, improving          Bank/Government policy dialogue.
revenue mobilization, and privatizing energy          Public information campaign to
utility companies may weaken.                         help address stakeholders' concerns.
Implementation of agreed regulatory and       M       Public information campaign to
institutional measures may weaken.                    explain the importance of the
regulatory functions and
implementation of reforms under
the Consolidation Structural
Adjustment Credit.
Lack of coordination within the Government to  S      Joint supervision of the TAC and
make timely decisions and approve actual              CSAC will be carried out by an
transfer of public enterprises to private sector.     advisory committee, in which all
beneficiary agencies are expected to
remain active members and
coordinate their activities.
Significant lag in private sector response to  S      Public education and advanced
divestiture opportunities.                            notice to potential domestic and
foreign private buyers. Use of
investment bankers to organize and
conduct professional marketing
approach.
From Components to Outputs
Restructuring and privatizing energy utility  M        Strengthening and broadening
companies will be impeded by political                World Bank/Government policy
pressures from affected parties, such as current      dialogue and emphasizing the
managers.                                             public relation campaign.
Timely provision of adequate counterpart      M       Follow up and consultations.
budgetary resources.
Overall Risk Rating                           M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 16
G: Main Credit Conditions
Effectiveness Conditions
Hiring of Project auditors is a condition for effectiveness.
H: Readiness for Implementation
[X] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of Project implementation.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
Project implementation.
[XI The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
1: Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This Project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Manager: M.R. Ghasimi rit. CQ.
Sector Director: Pradeep Mitra p
Country Director: Kiyoshi Kodera



Page 17
Annex 1
Kyrgyz Republic
Technical Assistance Credit
Project Design Summary
Narrative                 Key Performance              Monitoring and           Critical Assumptions
Summary                       Indicators                  Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                                (Goal to Bank Mission)
Strengthen Government          Annual average fiscal deficit  National statistics       GOKR continued
institutional capacity to reform  of about 5.0 % of GDP for    Review GOKR's budget     commitment to economic
tax system and transfer state  2000-2003                   World Bank review            reform program and
owned enterprises to the private                                                        favorable conditions for
sector                                                                                  private investment
Project Development Obiective:                                                          (Objective to Goal)
Improve revenue mobilization   Custom revenues increased    Progress, supervision mission    Political pressures from
and evaluation mission reports  interest groups will not
(mid-term and final)         delay or derail
implementation of revenue
mobilization
GOKR commitment to
improving business
environment remnains strong
Improve business environment   Surveys indicate at least 5  Periodic surveys            GOKR able to effectively
percent increase in                                     rein-in rent-seeking
satisfaction with reform                                behavior in the civil service
measures
GOKR commitment to
privatization rermains strong
Privatize energy utility companies  Facilitate privatization of  Periodic supervision reports  Transparency of the
electricity distribution                                 privatization process
companies, including
complete sale of at least one                            Sufficient private sector
distribution company                                    interest to facilitate
successful transfer of state
assets
Appropriate regulatory
enviromnent for private
sector promotion



Page 18
Proiect Outouts                 Output Indicators           Proiect Reports               (Outputs to Objectives)
Reformed customs structure and    Ratio of custom revenue to    Government budget         Continuing political support
administration                  GDP increased                                            and Government
commitment to improve
revenue mobilization
Increased private sector activities   Number of start-ups and  Supervision missions, project    Effective coordination
operating business increased   evaluation reports, business  within Government to make
annually                   surveys and private sector    timely decisions and
assessment                    approve actual transfer of
energy utility companies to
the private sector
Improved operational and        Utility loses reduced;      Supervision and Privatization
financial performance of energy    backlog of maintenance and   Evaluation Reports       Implementation of agreed
utility companies              repairs reduced; and                                       regulatory and institutional
accounts receivable reduced                              needs
No significant lag in private
sector response to
divestiture opportunities
Project Components/Sub-         Inputs: (budget for each   Project Reports                (Components to Outputs)
components:                     component)
1. Improving business           1. US$0.119 Million        Periodic project status reports,   Improving revenue
environment                                                 supervision reports,          mobilization, business
disbursement reports,         environment and
2. Improving revenue            2. US$0.33 1 Million       privatization evaluation and  privatizing the energy
mobilization                                               private sector environment     utility companies will not
assessment reports            be impeded by political
3.Reforming the energy sector   3. US$3.928 Million                                       pressures from affected
parties, such as current
managers
4. Supporting Project           4. US$0.622 Million
Management, Other Technical                                                               Timely provision of
Assistance and Contingencies                                                              adequate counterpart
budgetary resources



Page 19
Annex 2: Project Description
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC: Technical Assistance Credit
The objectives of the proposed Technical Assistance Credit (TAC) are to help implement reform
measures under the Consolidation Structural Adjustment Credit (CSAC). The proposed Credit builds
and strengthens the country's institutional capacity to: (i) improve the business environment; (ii)
improve revenue mobilization; and (iii) support reforms in the energy sector.
Proiect Component 1: Support for Improving Business Environment (US$119,080)
This component will help finance the services of an expatriate consultant for 4 months. The consultant
would assist with the implementation of the decrees on improving start-up procedures and business
inspections. The component will also assist to finance a local firm for 12 months to conduct an initial
diagnostic analysis and survey, succeeded by further follow-up surveys, to identify constraints that
impede private sector activities. Based on the outcome of the surveys, regulations relating to starting-
up business, including business registration, tax registration, and permits required for premises, will be
simplified. Business licensing procedures will become more consistent and predictable. The time and
costs associated with licensing and business inspections will be reduced and the frequency of business
inspections will also be decreased. This should lead to greater understanding of the challenges faced by
the private sector and will provide the necessary framework for the Government to design an action
plan, deepen reforms to ensure that significant improvement occurs in the environment for private
business operation. Indicative terms of reference for the technical assistance under this component are
presented in Annex 2-1.
Project Component 2: Support for Improving Revenue Mobilization (US$330,800)
This component will provide financing for consultants and office equipment to support Government
initiatives aimed at improving revenue mobilization, strengthening the State Customs Inspectorate
(SCI)'s institutional capacity and improving the interface between the SCI and the State Tax
Inspectorate (STI). This component includes financing for an international customs advisor for 12
months, 6 local consultants for 18 months each and office equipment (US$100,000) to support the
Custom's overall management and the coordinated, simultaneous development of the STI and SCI. The
component would support the Customs' Modernization and Reform Program that the Government had
initiated with technical assistance from the IMF. The terms of reference for support of improving
revenue mobilization under the proposed Project would be finalized in three months in consultation
with the World Bank and IMF. The indicative terms of reference are presented in Annex 2-2.
Proiect Component 3: Support for Reform of the Energiy Sector (US$3.9276,670)
This component will support the Government's efforts to support energy sector reforms. It consists of
the following sub-components:
(a) Assistance to State Energy Agency (US$662,550). The sub-component is intended to strengthen
the State Energy Agency (SEA)'s institutional and technical capacity to complete the preparation and
monitor the implementation by players in the energy industry of detailed market rules governing the
operation of the unbundled electricity and gas sectors. Under this sub-component, financing will
support two long-term international consultants for 12 months each and 9 months of short-term
international consultancies to help the SEA further develop its functions and develop appropriate policy
and legal instruments necessary to support the unbundled electricity and gas sectors. International
consultants would be assisted in their tasks by a group of 8 local consultants, each for 24 months and
office equipment (US$50,000). Indicative terms of reference for the technical assistance under this sub-
component are presented in Annex 2-3.



Page 20
(b) Assistance to State Property Fund (US$1,872,120). The objective of the sub-component is to
support the Government's efforts to privatize the country's gas and electricity distribution companies.
This will be the next stage in the reform of the electricity and gas sectors, following the separation of
electricity distribution from transmission and generation and the commercialization of Kyrgyzgas (KG).
Two international investment banks and two short-term privatization advisors will assist State Property
Fund (SPF) over a 13-month period with the preparation and implementation of the privatization
process for: (i) the remaining electricity distribution companies, following the privatization of the first
distribution company, being supported by EBRD; and (ii) KG. The international advisors will be
supported in their work by a group of 4 local consultants, each for 16 months. In addition, the sub-
component will finance appropriate office equipment (US$50,000). Indicative terms of reference for
the technical assistance under this component are presented in Annexes 2-4-1 and 2-4-2.
(c) Assistance to Kyrgyzgas (US$163,000). Weak financial management at KG has resulted in large
commercial losses, poor cash payment rates and high levels of account receivables. The objective of
the sub-component is to strengthen the financial viability of KG and, thereby, support Government's
efforts to restructure and privatize the company.  This component will build on the financial
transparency obtained from an audit of the FY 1998 and 1999 financial statements of KG. In this sub-
component, consultants will assist KG to strengthen its capacity to reduce technical and commercial
losses and assist with billing and collection. The component will help finance the services of an
expatriate consultant for 8 months over a one-year period, supported by a team of 3 local consultants,
each for 12 months. The financing of appropriate office equipment (US$20,000) is also supported
under the Credit. Indicative terms of reference for the technical assistance under this component are
presented in Annex 2-5.
(d) Assistance to Audit Kyrgyzgas and Kyrgyzgasmunaizat (US$367,600). This sub-component aims
at supporting the improvement in the financial viability of KG. Financing for an international audit of
the FY 1998 and 1999 financial statements of KG and Kyrgyzgasmunaizat, to be carried out by an
international standard audit company, is provided under this sub-component. The audit will provide
important financial background in preparation for KG's privatization. Indicative terms of reference for
the audit are presented in Annex 2-6.
(e) Supporting Social Compensations Strategy for Energy Price Increases (US$89,200). Under
CSAC, it is planned that energy tariffs be increased. The tariff rises will have an adverse impact on
those living below the poverty line, recently estimated to comprise around 60% of the population. The
objective of this sub-component is to strengthen the Government's capacity to implement, monitor and
assess a social assistance compensation strategy for urban areas undergoing significant household utility
tariff increases. The component will help finance the services of two expatriate consultants, one for 2
months and the other covering a one-month period. Expatriate consultants will be assisted by a team of
6 local consultants, each for 3 months. Funding for appropriate office equipment (US$31,800) is also
included. Indicative terms of reference for the technical assistance under this component are presented
in Annex 2-7.
(f) Assistance in Public Relations Campaign (US$123,200). This sub-component will support the
design and implementation of a public relations campaign intended to carry out an intensive public
relations campaign to make sure that the population understands the necessity and long-term benefits of
privatization and the accompanying tariff price increases. Financing will be provided for a public
relations firm to prepare and distribute educational information using the media and other sources and
to conduct awareness-raising seminars and workshops. Financing for office equipment (US$15,000) is
also included under this component. Indicative terms of reference for the public relations campaign are
presented in Annex 2-8.



Page 21
(g) Purchase of Gas Meters, Parts, Materials and Equipment for the Installation of Gas Meters
(US$650,000). The sub-component will finance the purchase of gas meters, parts, materials and
equipment for the installation of gas meters. Additionally, under the TAC, the Government plans to
complete the installation of equipment in the border station with Kazakhstan and install an electronic
correction and measuring system in this station. KG has already installed some 95,000 domestic meters
and needs to install 150,000 more. Under a $2 million Japanese grant, KG has tendered for the supply
of 80,000 meters. The company currently has some 2,000 meters available in the country, and there is a
need for a further 68,000 meters to enable all domestic customers to be metered. The Government has
requested that 6,000 of these at a cost of about US$150,000 be financed under the proposed Credit. The
cost of installation of one gas meter has been quoted at $10 under the current policy, but the adoption of
an effective installation program would enable this cost to be reduced to about $8 and, therefore, the
company requires US$704,000 to install 88,000 meters (those available, tendered and to be financed by
the proposed Credit). The cost of materials and parts required for gas meter installation to be financed
under the proposed TAC is about 55 percent of the total cost of installation or about US$385,000.
The current transportation metering practice between Kyrgyz Republic and Kazakhstan involves both
countries to make separate assessments of the gas supplied to Kyrgyz Republic. Although there is an
agreement that the Kyrgyz Republic assessment will prevail, this may create some uncertain situation.
The two countries have moved toward an arrangement made in 1997 that Kyrgyz Republic will
construct a meter installation on its territory to measure gas flows in the Kyrgyz Republic along with
electronic correction equipment. On completion of this meter installation, Kazakhstan will upgrade its
border meter, which measures gas entering Kyrgyz Republic, with electronic correction equipment.
These meters will be operated according to a joint agreement. The Kyrgyz Republic station is now
some 90% complete, but construction was stopped in November 1999 due to a lack of funds. The
proposed Credit is expected to finance installation of a modem electronic correction and measuring
system on this new station, in accordance with the agreement, to ensure a suitable level of accuracy,
remove the need for manual calculation and make certain that the border agreement is fully
implemented. The cost of completing the station is about US$45,000 and provision of a suitable
electronic system will cost a further US$70,000, requiring a total cost of US$115,000.
Proiect Component 4: SuDDort for Proiect Manaaement. Other Technical Assistance and
Continaencv (US$1.122,450)
The proposed Credit will finance an expatriate procurement expert to assist and train Government
officials in all procurement procedures for 4 months, purchase office equipment for $50,000 and
provide the operating cost of the PIU on a declining basis, for a total cost of US$315,400. Other
additional technical assistance requirements for about US$77,250 may be identified during the Project
implementation process, which would allow the Project to finance studies, activities and other inputs as
the need arises. Additionally, the Credit envisions price and physical contingencies of US$229,800.
The Government will contribute US$500,000 equivalent toward Project costs.
Project Imnplementation
The Project Implementation Unit (PIV) is established in SPF to assist the beneficiary agencies with
procurement, disbursement and other Project implementation issues. The Director of the PIll has been
hired by the Government. The PIU will: (i) coordinate with various beneficiary agencies to ensure
timely Project implementation; (ii) advise these agencies on World Bank methods and procedures for
selecting consultants and procuring goods financed under the Proposed Project; (iii) assist in bid
preparation and bid openings, including evaluation and reconmmendations for awarding contracts; and
(iv) ensure that contract awards meet the criteria and objectives of the proposed Project. Subsequently,
the PIU will: (a) monitor overall progress in Project implementation; (b) administer a Special Account;
(c) manage overall Project accounting; (d) ensure proper Project auditing; and (e) prepare detailed
progress reports and a Project completion report. Assistance provided by the PIUJ for the proposed



Page 22
Project implementation will be temporary, lasting for the duration of the Project. The PIU would be
responsible for coordinating all aspects of Project implementation and would report to the Chairman of
SPF. Consultants assigned to each component of the Project will work with the beneficiary agencies in
accordance with their terms of reference and ensure satisfactory completion of each component. They
will communicate progress with their work program to the PIU and IDA.
To help the Government initiate the Project without delay and implement it effectively after Credit
approval, the Association will organize a Project launch workshop, at which time a team consisting of
the task manager, a procurement specialist and component specialists, will fully review implementation
procedures and requirements. A mid-term audit will also be conducted. Supervision missions would
follow, with a mid-term review 24 months after Project effectiveness. The necessary office space and
facilities will be made available by the Government prior to the mobilization of consultants.
Financial Management
Proiect Accounting. The Borrower would be responsible for appropriate accounting of Project funds,
reporting on the use of these funds, and ensuring timely submission of audits of financial statements
and reports to IDA. The PIU would establish an acceptable accounting system, under advice from IDA,
to furnish information on the proper receipt and use of funds. Accounting for all special account
transactions and all other Project accounts will be maintained in accordance with practices and
standards satisfactory to IDA, with the objective of timely and accurate accounting of all transactions
under the Credit.
Project Financial Reportim . Financial reporting would be geared to the specific requirements of the
Project and would comprise a full statement of receipts and payments from the inception of the Project.
The reporting would be in accordance with disbursements classified and reported under the expenditure
categories agreed to by the Borrower and specified in the Credit Agreement. The PIU would submit
quarterly financial progress reports, including a separate report for the Special Account. A Project
Completion Report would be submitted to IDA by the PIU promptly after the conclusion of Project
activity, and in any event, not later than 6 months after the Credit closing date.
Project Auditing. A key condition of the Credit would be that auditors, preferably an international
accounting/auditing firm, acceptable to IDA, will be hired. The selected auditors are to be (a) impartial
and independent from the entity to be audited; (b) well-established and reputable; (c) experienced in the
type of assignment to be undertaken; and (d) able to fulfil the terms of reference within the stated
timetable.
Contract Arrangements
Prior to the issue of Requests for Proposals, the beneficiary agencies, in consultation with IDA, will
review the terms of reference, evaluate and finalize such details as the recruitment of local consultants,
the duration of assignments, counterparts, required qualifications, experience and background and
language proficiency. The terms of reference will also indicate the following assistance to be provided
to the consultants:
*  admninistrative assistance in obtaining visas, custom clearance and any other administrative
permits required by the consultants in the performance of the assignment;
*  obtaining existing data, maps, studies;
*  securing office space, secretarial and other staff in Bishkek;
*  arranging transport;
* liaison with Government; and
*  any other assistance not readily available, which the consultants may reasonably request.



Page 23
Annex 2-1
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
INDICATIVE TERMS OF REFERENCE
Support for Business Environment Improvement
Objectives
Private sector business development in the Kyrgyz Republic currently faces many challenges in
establishing and operating viable business activities. The objective of the component is to support the
development of a transparent, effective and efficient regulatory framework for private businesses which
emphasizes consistency of rules and rule enforcement. The component will support efforts to remove
constraints that impede private sector activities, simplify business start-up regulations, make business
licensing procedures more consistent and predictable and decrease the number and cost of business
inspections.
Activities and Outputs
The consultants will undertake activities and deliver outputs as agreed upon with the Government to
include:
(a) Research and Survey of Business Regulations
- Analyze the existing regulations to identify conflicting and unwarranted regulations and
recommend a streamlined package of regulations, which are transparent, complementary,
consist of a minimal number of steps and require a minimal amount of documentation;
- Conduct initial survey of private sector by a local firm to examine:
O problems of business environment with respect to registration, licensing, inspections, and
other regulations;
0 the cost of these regulations to existing businesses; and
0 extent to which these regulations affect new private business start-ups.
* Conduct further surveys of private sector by the local firm to:
0 examine how any changes in regulations and reforrns are being implemented in practice;
0 monitor the impact and effectiveness of the changes in regulations and reforms; and
0 identify any remaining or additional problems with business regulations.
(b) Recommendationsfor Improving Business Environment
* Assist with the development of the necessary legal framework and the implementation of the
surveys' recommendations;
* Assist with the implementation of the decree on improving start-up procedures and develop a
training program for central and regional officials involved in start-up procedures, including:
0 development of an action plan for the implementation of the decree; and
0 creation of explicit procedures to improve the substance and coordination of start-up rules,
including appropriate monitoring of the application of the rules and allowing for public
participation in the process.



Page 24
* Assist with the implementation of the decree on improving business inspections and develop a
training program for central and regional inspectors in the application of rules, including:
O guidelines for inspection procedures;
O procedures for the review of inspection rules issued by each inspectorate; and
O mechanisms to monitor the application of rules.



Page 25
Annex 2-2
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
INDICATIVE TERMS OF REFERENCE
Improving Revenue Mobilization
Objectives
The objective of the component is to support Government's efforts to strengthen revenue mobilization. In
particular, the Project will help support institutional capacity in the customs, improve coordination
between tax and customs administrations and strengthen the customs administration. This component
will assist the Government with coordinating and harmonizing the activities of the two primary revenue-
generation agencies-the State Customs Inspectorate (SCI) and the State Tax Inspectorate(STI)-with a
view to move to more effective and efficient fiscal administration.
Activities and Outputs
The consultants will undertake activities and deliver outputs as agreed upon with the Government to
include:
(a) Coordination of Functions of Tax and Customs Administrations
* Examine the organizational functions of SCI and STI to recommend ways to align more
closely or coordinate the activities of these organizations;
* Design, develop and implement a functional organization for the SCI and STI to identify long-
term strategies for their restructuring to ensure appropriate coordination of functions and
activities, including ensuring similar revenue collection processes and procedures between the
two agencies. These strategies would aim at reducing revenue leakage, maximizing revenue
collection, reducing opportunities for corruption and improving efficiency and should take
into account:
0 review of methods for identification of customs value of imports;
0 investigation of fraud;
0 audit of taxpayers;
0 creation of information systems; and
0 training programs.
* Undertake a detailed assessment of the systems used by the STI and SCI, including:
0 taxpayer registration;
0 audit/post-entry verification; and
0 collection of arrears.
* Prepare a plan for automated systems design, incorporating:
0 cross-functional responsibilities;
0 potential reorganization of SCI along functional lines; and
0 potential realignment of certain functions of STI with those of SCI.



Page 26
(b) Design and Implementation of an Action Planfor the Reform and Modernisation of State Customs
Inspectorate, in conjunction with measures introduced under (a) above, covering
* Legislation and procedures, including:
0 Conduct a full review of the Customs Code and identification of those specific provisions
which are inadequate; and
0 Design and assist with the implementation of import and export processing procedures
based on self-assessment, minimizing face-to-face contacts, and selective physical
inspections.
* Computerization, including:
0 Assist with the development of a long-term plan for full computerization of import and
export declarations.
* Organization, management and resources, including:
0 Conduct a review of the pay and incentives structure, management control and the
methodology for taking disciplinary action and develop an action plan for reform; and
0 Coordinate with the on-going activities supported by other aid agencies in the SCI.



Page 27
Annex 2-3
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
INDICATIVE TERMS OF REFERENCE
Support to the State Energy Agency
(i) Support to Electricity Sector
Objectives
The objective of the sub-component is to strengthen the State Energy Agency (SEA)'s institutional and
technical capacity to become an appropriate and transparent regulatory institution. Under this sub-
component, the consultants will support the SEA to further develop its functions and to help design the
policy and legal instruments necessary to support the operation of the unbundled electricity distribution
companies according to market rules.
Activities and Outputs
The consultants will undertake activities and deliver outputs as agreed upon with the Government to
include:
(a) Provision of day-to-day advice as required to support SEA operations:
* establishing consumer agreements;
* establishing and amending technical standards;
* coordinating the preparation of a National Energy Plan;
evaluating investment proposals in the energy sector; and
* implementing performance agreements.
(b) Development of, and/or improvements in, the necessary legal and other instruments for the
appropriate operation of the privatised electricity sector, with regard specifically to the following
areas:
* market rules - modify and further develop the existing market rules for the operation of
privatized electricity market;
* power purchase contracts - review the existing power contracts and set the initial contracted
volumes;
* transmission contracts - set out the operation of the transmission network and the charging
methods for services provided by the transmission company, obtain necessary data, and
undertake appropriate modeling to find a suitable tariff structure;
* grid rules - define the various operational standards and rules for accessing the network, and
codify the Kyrgyz Republic's obligations to neighboring countries;
* rules for operation of the balancing market between contracted supply and actual demand -
review and further develop the draft rules;
* contract trading and contract registrar - develop rules which specify the circumstances under
which contracts may be traded;
* payments and settlements system - develop system rules and regulations;



Page 28
* cost equalization fund - establish a fund to cross-subsidize certain distribution companies to
facilitate national electricity tariffs; and
* tariffs - assist SEA to set and approve generation and transmission tariffs and adjust end user
tariffs accordingly.
(ii) Support to Gas Sector
Objectives
The objective of this sub-component is to strengthen the institutional and technical capacity of the SEA to
develop transparent regulation for the gas sector. The consultants appointed for this task will work closely
with the consultants appointed to carry out similar task for the electricity sector as outlined in section (i)
above.
Activities and Outputs
The consultants will undertake activities and deliver outputs as agreed upon with the Government to
include:
(a) Provision of day-to-day advice as required to support SEA operations on technical standards,
evaluating tariff proposals, setting tariffs, co-ordination of the National Energy Plan, evaluating
investment proposals and monitoring performance agreements.
(b) Development of and/or improvements in, the necessary legal and other instruments for the
appropriate operation of the privatised gas sector, with regard specifically to:
* issuing licenses in the gas sector;
* setting end user tariffs for gas consumers after consultation with and receipt of reactions from
end-users;
* developing the necessary regulatory arrangements for the privatized gas industry, including,
gas contracts, transmission regulation, transparent system for regulation of consumer tariffs,
regulation of tariffs for bulk supply of the distribution companies if gas is not supplied on a
fully competitive basis, balancing supply and demand, payments and settlements,
identification of cross subsidies and competitive trading arrangements;
* developing a medium term tariff policy for inclusion in the privatization prospectuses;
* preparing license terms; and
* advising on design and implementation of appropriate training programs.



Page 29
Annex 2-4-1
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
INDICATIVE TERMS OF REFERENCE
Support for Privatization of Electricity Distribution Companies
Objectives
The objective of the sub-component is to support the Government's efforts to privatize the country's
electricity distribution companies. This will be the next stage in the reform of the electricity sector,
following the separation of electricity distribution from transmission and generation. In particular, an
international investment bank (with legal, audit, economic, financial and marketing support) will assist
the State Property Fund (SPF) with the preparation and implementation of the privatization process for
the remaining distribution companies, following the privatization of the first distribution company, being
supported by EBRD.
Activities and Outputs
The consultants will undertake activities and deliver outputs as agreed with the Government to include:
(a) Due diligence of the distribution companies offeredfor sale
* Supply and customer contracts;
* Existing contracts with other firms;
* Joint venture agreements;
* Status of debt and waivers needed from creditors and suppliers with regard to the privatization
of the electricity distribution companies, and current staff entitlement and major labor and
union contracts; and
* title to assets and properties.
(b) Valuation exercise, based on standard valuation methods
* Discounted cash flow method of valuation;
* Comparable transactions;
* Comparable companies and the adjusted net assets; and
* Replacement value methods.
(c) Recommendations on the transaction structure for privatisation of distribution companies
* Prepare the information necessary for potential investors to formulate an investment decision;
and
* Prepare the information memorandum to be made available to potential bidders if a tender is
used to divest a majority stake in the companies to a strategic investor.
(d) Preparation for Privatisation
* Define transparent evaluation methodology to select the winning bid;
* Prepare tender documents including confidentiality agreements to be signed by potential
bidders and terms of reference of the tender;



Page 30
* Organize data room;
* Prepare a short list of potential buyers to be approved by the SPF and subsequently
approached by the privatization advisor; and
* Provide advice to SPF, as requested, in evaluating the bids and in its negotiations with
potential acquirers.



Page 31
Annex 2-4-2
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
INDICATIVE TERMS OF REFERENCE
Support for Privatization of Kyrgyzgas
Objectives
The objective of the sub-component is to support the Government's efforts to restructure and privatize
Kyrgyzgas (KG). An international investment bank (with legal, audit, economic, financial and marketing
support) will assist SPF with the preparation and implementation of the privatization process for the
company. It is anticipated that privatization will assist with the mobilization of capital investment and
improvement in the management and overall performance of KG.
Activities and Outputs
The consultants will undertake activities and deliver outputs as agreed upon with the Government to
include:
(a) Review of the Privatization Framework:
* Review the sector policy, legal, regulatory and privatization framework;
* Develop a detailed work plan; and
* Identify any additional work which is not part of the scope of work under this indicative TOR
and which would need to be carried out to support the privatization of KG, including internal
and external factors that will affect the successful sale of shares.
(b) Corporate, Business and Financial Due-Diligence for KG
* Review KG's organizational structure, the functions and responsibilities of its management
and its personnel and management practices, including recommending possible staff incentive
measures;
* Evaluate  the  company's  key  performance  indicators,  assess  its  comparative
advantages/disadvantages and compare with other gas distribution companies;
* Based on KG's projections of demand and capacity needs of the sector, review and analyze
KG's investment requirements and financial results; and
* Carry out a due-diligence to address issues pertaining to the privatization of KG's. This will
include: supply and customer contracts; existing contracts with other firms; joint venture
agreements; the status of KG's debt and waivers needed from creditors and suppliers in
respect of the privatization, current staff entitlement and major labor and union contracts; and
title to assets and properties.
(c) Valuation and Sale Strategy
* Value KG using discounted cash flow and comparable common in this sector for feasible
options. Discuss the valuation methodologies with the SPF and explain their effects on
valuation; and
* Suggest appropriate corporate restructuring and optimal sale structure consistent with KG's
privatization objectives and proposed privatization options, including:



Page 32
O domestic trends affecting privatization, including the state of the national economy and its
future prospects, growth pattems in the gas sector;
O trends in intemational capital markets (specifically, privatization of gas distribution
companies in other countries);
O the post-privatization regulatory framework;
O foreign vs. domestic placement of shares; and
O national interests and those of KG's customers and personnel (including possibility of
issuing employee shares).
(e) Preparationfor Privatization
* Prepare the information necessary for potential investors to formulate an investment decision;
* Prepare the information memorandum to be made available to potential bidders if a tender is
used to divest a majority stake in the companies to a strategic investor;
* Define transparent evaluation methodology to select the winning bid;
* Prepare tender documents including confidentiality agreements to be signed by potential
bidders and terms of reference of the tender;
o Organize data room;
 Prepare a short list of potential buyers to be approved by the SPF and subsequently
approached by the privatization advisor; and
. Provide advice to SPF, as requested, in evaluating the bids and in its negotiations with
potential acquirers.



Page 33
Annex 2-5
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
INDICATIVE TERMS OF REFERENCE
Financial Restructuring of Kyrgyzgas
Objectives
Weak financial management at Kyrgyzgas (KG) has resulted in large commercial losses, poor cash
payment rates and high levels of accounts receivable. The objective of the sub-component is to
strengthen the financial viability of KG and thereby support the Government's efforts to restructure and
privatize the company. Consultants will assist KG to strengthen its capacity to reduce technical and
commercial losses and assist with billing and collection.
Activities and Outputs
The consultants will undertake activities and deliver outputs as agreed upon with the Government to
include:
(a) Design and implementation of modernfinancial procedures for KG to perform its day-to-day
operations, covering accounting and cost accounting, budgeting and budgetary control, internal
auditing andfinancial management, following International Accounting Standards (IAS) and
including:
* Undertake a diagnostic review of the existing organization, staffing, practices and procedures;
* Develop a comprehensive, prioritized, timebound action plan for implementation of
improvements in accounting and finance at KG and in subsidiary business units;
* Prepare a training needs assessment and a training plan for the implementation of the IAS and
improve accounting and internal audit procedures at KG;
= Draft new accounting, internal auditing and financial management procedures as required and
compile an "Accounting and Financial Management Manual"; and
* Provide practical and operational advice as required to accounting and finance personnel in
KG to improve its day-to-day operations and facilitate implementation of the new methods
and standards.
(b) Improvement of billing and collection function:
* Design and assist in the implementation of workable and appropriate incentives to
management and employees of KG to reduce non-technical losses and improve collection; -
* Design and assist in the implementation of a comprehensive action program to ensure monthly
reading of all meters, at least in urban areas, and perform meter readings in rural areas
according to a regular schedule;
* Design and assist in the implementation of improvements to the computerized billing program
and to the billing and collection procedures to ensure that bills reflect real monthly
consumption, and to identify on a timely basis receivables from consumers;
* Organize efficient bill payment and consumer data collection and processing centers; and
* Organize and supervise a comprehensive program aimed at eliminating illegal connections and
to put in place procedures for disconnection of non-paying customers.



Page 34
Annex 2-6
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
INDICATIVE TERMS OF REFERENCE
Audit of Kyrgyzgas and Kyrgyzgasmunaizat
Objectives
The objective of the sub-component is to support the improvement in the financial viability of the gas
sector. An international standard audit company will carry out a financial audit of the FY 1998 and 1999
financial statements of KG and Kyrgyzgasmunaizat. The audit will provide important financial
background in preparation for KG's privatization.
Activities and Outputs
The consultants will undertake activities and deliver outputs as agreed upon with the Government to
include:
(a) Audit of KG and Kyrgyzgasmunaizat Accounts for FY 1998, based on International Standards of
Auditing (ISA)
Review the Financial Statement focusing on operational information (operating costs, bad
debts and collections), including:
O the effectiveness of procedures and segregation of duties and responsibilities designed to
safeguard assets;
O the effectiveness of, and compliance with, instructions and regulations regarding the use
of assets and resources;
O the effectiveness of, and compliance with, procedures designed to assure that transactions
are accurately and properly recorded;
O examination of evidence to assure that assets and liabilities are recorded in the proper
amounts and in the proper periods;
0 verification of fixed assets and inventory balances;
0 comparison of expenditures to budgeted amounts and review to assure they are in
accordance with governmental regulations;
0 tests of calculations of items such as payroll disbursements, depreciation, income taxes
and milestones in debt agreements;
0 tests of systems of commitments to verify validity of charges of creditors, including
confirmation where necessary; tests of receipts and amounts due to determine validity of
revenues and outstanding balances, including confirmations; review of proper recording of
barter transactions;
0 tests of bank balances, including confirmations with banks;
0 verification that financial statements agree to account balances, as consolidated, by tests of
books and records of subsidiaries, including general ledgers, vouchers, journal entries,
contracts, purchase orders and other documents;
A.



Page 35
O state of technology of the accounting and reporting systems; and
O non-compliance with government regulations, unfilled commitment and other significant
matters.
* Review the court appointed auditors results;
* Prepare a "management letter", setting out:
O comments and observations on the accounting records, systems, and controls that were
examined during the course of the audit;
O specific deficiencies and areas of weakness in systems and controls and make
recommendation for their improvement; and
O a report on the degree of compliance of each of the financial covenants on the financing
agreement and give comments, if any, on internal and external matters affecting such
compliance.
(b) Audit of KG and Kyrgyzgasmunaizat Accounts for FY 1999, based on International Standards of
Auditing (ISA)
* Establish pro forma accounts for December 1st 1998 since a single oil and gas company
operated at that time;
* Review the Financial Statement focusing on similar operational information (operating costs,
bad debts and collections) to the audit for 1998;
* Review the court appointed auditors results;
* Review the 1998 "management letter" to determine if appropriate actions have been taken by
the management;
* Prepare a "management letter", setting out:
O comments and observations on the accounting records, systems, and controls that were
examined during the course of the audit;
O specific deficiencies and areas of weakness in systems and controls and make
recommendation for their improvement; and
a report on the degree of compliance of each of the financial covenants on the financing
agreement and give comments, if any, on internal and external matters affecting such
compliance.



Page 36
Annex 2-7
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
INDICATIVE TERMS OF REFERENCE
Support for Social Compensation Strategy for Energy Price Increases
Objectives
Under CSAC, energy tariffs are planned to rise. The tariff increases will have an adverse impact on those
living below the poverty line, recently estimated to comprise around 60 percent of the population. The
objective of this sub-component is to support the Government's capacity to implement, monitor and assess
a social assistance compensation strategy for predominantly urban areas undergoing significant household
utility tariff increases.
Activities and Outputs
The consultants will undertake activities and deliver outputs as agreed upon with the Government to
include:
(a) Support for a re-orientation of the social protection system that incorporates:
* review of existing privileges for particular categories of households within the social
protection system (including privileges with respect to the energy prices);
* preparation of proposals for a rationalized structure of privileges that would result in a fairer
and less costly system of privileges (including elimination of most privileges, and specifying
of all remaining privileges); and
* preparation of a draft law on re-orientation of the social protection system that would give
effect to the proposed structure of privileges, eliminate most privileges, specify all remaining
privileges, declare void privileges granted from other legislation, and require changes in the
system of privileges only through amendment of this law;
(b) Support for strengthening of institutional capacity required to develop and administer programs that
provide social protection related to increases in energy tariffs and, in particular:
* preparation of a manual of operating procedures for the social protection program related to
energy tariff increases;
* development of appropriate training programs for officials who are to administer those
programs, and delivery of training to these officials; and
* development and implementation of an automation plan for administering the program.



Page 37
Annex 2-8
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
INDICATIVE TERMS OF REFERENCE
Energy Sector Public Relations Campaign
Objectives
The objective of the sub-component is to support the Government's energy privatization program for
Kyrgyzgas and the electricity distribution companies by means of a public relations campaign. Although
the Government desires the successful outcome of privatization for the electricity and gas sectors, it is
aware that these changes, including the accompanying energy tariff increases, may cause concern
amongst the population. Given the importance of the privatization process in the Kyrgyz Republic's
reform program, the Government is commissioning an intensive public relations campaign using the
media and other sources in order to ensure that the necessity of these measures are widely understood.
Activities and Outputs
A Public Relations (PR) company will undertake activities and deliver outputs as agreed upon with the
Government to include:
(a) Public relations campaign to explain the necessity and benefits of tariff price rises through:
* preparation and widespread distribution of pamphlets;
* publication of articles in the newspaper and other print media;
* presentation of programs on TV and radio;
* organization of seminars and workshops for high-level officials and the general population at
universities, Parliament, selected Government agencies, NGOs and civic societies, and
* development of other relevant and effective public information tools deemed necessary.
(b) Public relations campaign to explain the necessity and benefits of the privatisation of Kyrgyzgas and
electricity distribution companies through:
* preparation and widespread distribution of pamphlets;
* publication of articles in the newspaper and other print media;
* presentation of programs on TV and radio;
* organization of seminars and workshops for high-level officials and the general population at
universities, Parliament, selected Government agencies, NGOs and civic societies, and
* development of other relevant and effective public information tools deemed necessary.



Page 38
Annex 3
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Technical Assistance Credit
Estimated Project Costs
Local        Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Component                              US $ 000
Improving Business Environment              40            79            119
Improving Revenue Administration             54           177           231
Supporting Reform of the Energy Sector       198          2763          2961
Supporting Project Management                733          260           993
Goods                                                     967           967
Total Baseline Cost                          1025         4246          5271
Physical Contingencies                    10           120            130
Price Contingencies                       19           80             99
Total Project Costs                          1054         4446          5500
Local        Foreign       Total
Project Cost by Category                               US $ 000
Goods                                       0             967           978
Services                                     1025         3508          4533
Total Project Costs                          1025         4475          5500



Page 39
Annex 4
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Technical Assistance Credit
Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Present Value of Flows
Economic Analysis      Financial Analysis
Benefits
Incremental expenditures                             US$34 million (1999 constant
saving of a permanent, one time                      dollars) over 15 years @ 10 %
1 percentage point reduction                        discount rate.
(relative to 1999 levels) in
budget, and one time 1
percentage point increase in
Government revenues starting
in 2002.
Costs
Includes transaction costs for                       US$21 million (1999 constant
restructuring and privatization                      dollars) @ 10 % discount rate.
retrenchment costs, regulatory
agency establishment costs,
operating costs, Government's
contribution and 5%
contingency fund.
Net Benefits:                          _             US$13 million.
IRR:    L                                            15 %
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The proposed Project would support fiscal adjustment, improve business environment and strengthen
financial conditions and operation of utility companies in the energy sector. Support for fiscal adjustment
will help strengthen revenue mobilization and diminish distortions in the business environment.
Improving business environment will help simplify regulations relating to starting-up businesses,
reducing the time and cost of licensing procedures, and decreasing the number and cost of business
inspections. The private sector's willingness to operate in a conducive environment and undertake the
necessary investment will be positively reflected in the country's output recovery and sustained economic
growth. Energy sector reform will help place the energy utility services on a sustainable path, enhance
efficiency, improve quality of services, encourage private capital investment in the electricity distribution
companies and the KG and help to address the energy sector's chronic need for repairs and replacement.
Data is not adequate enough to allow a precise project cost-benefit analysis. Accordingly, the quantitative
analysis presented in this section is very simple and represents a tentative cost recovery exercise. The
analysis focuses on ensuring that small projected reduction in government budget deficit, resulting from
implementation of reform measures under the Project, will be sufficient to cover the Project's cost. In
this case, the present value of incremental reduction in budget deficit of permanent one time 0.5 percent is
adequate enough to cover the present value of Project costs. The analysis shows that budget deficit
reduction of 2 percent is sufficient to cover Project costs more than 3.5 times over.



Page 40
Main Assumptions. The analysis does not take into consideration many benefits that are difficult to
measure. It assumes that Govemment expenditures and revenues will grow at annual rates as of
2.5%(2000), 3.2%(2001), 3.8%(2002), 4.0%(2003), 4.3%(2004),5%(2005) and 6% thereafter during the
analysis period, and in the absence of the Project, there will be no changes in the growth of government
expenditures and revenues.



Page 41
Annex 5
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Technical Assistance Credit
Financial Sumimary
(USOOO)
2000          2001          2002          2003
Project Costs           550          1400          2350           1200
Financing
IDA                 450          1250          2200          1100
Government             100           150           150           100
Total Project Financing      550          1400          2350          1200
%of total costs
IDA                 82            90            94            92
Government              18            10            6             8
Total               100           100           100           100



Page 42
Annex 6
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Technical Assistance Credit
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
A. Procurement
Summary of Procurement Procedure
In this annex, tables Al and A2 summarize the proposed procurement anfangements. Under the Project,
goods and services will be procured in accordance with the Bank/IDA procurement guidelines.
Thresholds for procurement methods and prior reviews are shown in table B. Procurement plans detailing
the packaging and estimated schedules of the major procurement actions are presented in Tables Cl, and
C2. Estimated dates for publication of GPN and the Bank's review process is presented in Table D. The
allocation of the credit proceeds is shown in Table E.  Capacity assessments of the Project
Implementation Unit to execute project procurement are made in Tables F and G.
Procurement of Goods (US$1.00 Mllion). Goods will be procured in accordance with the provisions of
the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published in January 1995, and
revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. The appropriate Standard
Bidding Documents issued by the Bank will be used with minimum changes acceptable to the Bank.
The Project will finance procurement of goods: (i) gas meters and parts and equipment for installation of gas
meters; and (ii) office equipment; computer hardware and software, printers, copiers, scanners and fax
machines. The following methods of procurement will be used:
* International Competitive Bidding (ICB). ICB procedures will be applied for goods contracts
estimated to cost above US$100,000.
* International Shopping (IS). Contracts for supplies, for example required parts and equipment
for installation of gas meters and office equipment, readily available off-the-shelf or equipment
of standard specification estimated to cost less than US$100,000 up to an aggregate not to
exceed US$330,000 may be procured under IS procedures by obtaining competitive price
quotations from at least three suppliers in two different countries.
*  National Shopping (NS).  Contracts for supplies, for example office equipment, readily
available off-the-shelf or required equipment and parts of standard specification estimated to
cost less than US$50,000 up to an aggregate not to exceed US$220,000 may be procured
through NS procedures by obtaining competitive price quotations from at least three sources
within the country.
Procurement of Services (US$3.8 million). The contracts for consultants' services will be awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and
January 1999. The services financed under the Credit are for strengthening the country's institutional
capacity to improve the business environment, revenue mobilization and the financial conditions for
energy utility companies and to initiate their restructuring and privatization. Selection of Consultants will
be based on the Standard Request for Proposal issued by the Bank with minimal necessary modifications
as agreed by the Bank.
e  Selection of Firms (US$2.1 million).  Since the jobs for the consultants to support
improvement in the business environment, revenue mobilization and improving financial
conditions of utility companies are specialized in nature, Quality and Cost Based Selection



Page 43
(QCBS) will be used for selection of firms and institutions except for project auditing which
will be selected according to Least Cost (LC) procedures and the for the survey on private
sector which will be selected according to Consultant's Qualifications (CQ).
*  Selection of Individuals (US$1.7 million). Since the majority of consulting contracts are to
support preparation of the regulatory framework for improving the business environment,
revenue mobilization and financial conditions of utility companies and other technical
assistance, and for these assignments, individual consultants and experts in the specific fields
are available around the globe, individual consultants will be selected on the basis of their
qualifications by comparing at least three CVs from potential candidates.
Incremental Operating Cost:
The credit will finance the incremental operating costs of about US$271000 for the PIU to oversee and
manage the Project, including: (i) P1U staff salaries, excluding those of civil servants; and (ii)
comnmunications, maintenance and operation cost for equipment procured or used under the Project.
IDA Review of Procurement Decisions
Goods: All goods procured through ICB and the first two contracts under International Shopping and
National Shopping, will be subject to IDA prior review as set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines.
Consultants: All contracts for firms over US$50,000 and for individuals over US$20,000 will be subject
to IDA prior review.
B. Disbursement
The Project will finance 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory)
and 85 percent of expenditures for other items procured locally in the case of goods and 100 percent of all
other expenditures. The project will be implemented over a five year period and will close on July 31, 2004.
Statements of Expenses (SOEs). Withdrawal applications will be fully documented, except for: (i)
expenditures under contracts of less than US$100,000 for goods and less than US$50,000 for consultant
services provided by firms; (ii) expenditures under contracts of less than US$20,000 for individual
consultants; and (iii) the incremental operating costs and training less than US$15,000. These may all be
claimed on the basis of certified Statements of Expenditures (SOE). Documents supporting these
expenditures will be held by the PIU for at least one year after receipt of the audit report by IDA for the year
in which the last disbursement occurred and made available for review by the auditors and to IDA on
request.
Special Account (SA). To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Government would
open a Special Account (SA) in a commercial bank and will be operated by Project Implementation Unit
under terrns and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank would, upon request, make an Authorized
Allocation of US$200,000. Upon Credit effectiveness, the initial advance will be limited to US$100,000
until disbursements had reached $2 million, after which time the full Authorized Allocation would be
claimed. Applications for the replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted monthly or when
20 percent of the initial deposit has been utilized, whichever occurs earlier. The replenishment
application would be supported by the necessary documentation, bank statement of the special account,
and a reconciliation bank statement of the Special Account against bank records. The SA would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.



Page 44
Annex 6, Table Al
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ 000 equivalent)
Procurement   Methodl
Expenditure Category               ICB          NCB          Other1      N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Goods
Gas Meters, Parts and Equipment for    500
installation of Gas Meters        (500)
Office Equipment, Parts and                                   533                      1033
Equipment for installation of Gas                             (533)                   (1033)
Meters
2. Services
Improving Business Environment,                               3262                     3262
Revenue Mobilization and                                     (3262)                   (3262)
Supporting Reform in the Energy
Sector
3. Supporting Project
Management
Salary of PIU staff, maintenance and                          705                      705
rent of the PIU office                                       (205)                     (205)
4. PPF                                                        500                      500
(500)                    (500)
Total                              500                        5000                     5500
(500)                     (4500)                   (5000)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Association. All costs include contingencies.
1/  Includes goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of
the PIU, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to managing the Project.



Page 45
Annex 6, Table A2
Consultant Selection Arrangements
(US$ 000 equivalent)
Consultant                                     Selection   Method
Services
Expenditure         QCBS      QBS      SFB       LCS        CQ       Other    N.B.F.    Total
Category                                                                                Cost,
A. Firms            2087                          30        42                           2159
(2087)                       (30)       (42)                        (2159)
B. Individuals                                                       1789                1789
(1789)             (1789)
Total               2087                          30        42       1789                3948
(2087)                       (30)       (42)    (1789)              (3948)
1/ Including contingencies.
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank



Page 46
Annex 6 Table B
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value          Procurement         Contracts Subject to
Threshold               Method               Prior Review
Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)                                (US$ thousands)
1. Goods                        >100                   ICB                     500
<50                    NS                      70
<100                    IS                     180
2. Services                  (Indiv.).>20              Other                   1660
(Firn) >50           QCBS/CQ/LCS                 2087
4. Total                                                                       4497
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:     4497



Page 47
Annex 6, Table Cl
Credit Procurement Plan
Description                                              Type   Number  of Estimated cost Procurement  Documents  Invitation    Contract    Contract
slices/items/  inc          method       submitted   to bid      signing      completion
sub-packages  contingency                to Bank
.________ _ .(in  US$  '000)
Component No. 1: Improving Business Environment
1.1. Conducting Surveys of Private Sector                CS      1            42             CQ           7/00        8/00         12/00       3/02
1.2. Private sector Development Advisor (under PPF see table C2)                                                                               3/02
Component No. 2 Improving Revenue Mobilization
2.1. Customs Advisor                                     CS      1             180           IC            10/00       11/00       12/00       6/02
2.2. Customs Specialists                                  CS     6             56            IC            10/00-5/02   11//00-5/02  12/00-8/02   6/03
Component No. 3: Supporting Reform of the Energy Sector                                                                           0
3.1.1. State Energy Agency Advisor on Electricity (under PPF see  CS  1        215           IC            6/00       7/00         8/00        6/03
table C2)
3.1.2. State Energy Agency Advisor on Gas (under PPF see table  CS  1          215           IC            6/00        7/00        8/00        6/03
C2)                                                            I                             _
3.1.3. Regulatory Advisor on Electricity and Gas         CS      1             145           IC            6/00        7/00        8/00        6/03
3.1.4. Regulatory Specialists (under PPF see table C2)   CS      5             95            IC           6/00-6/01    7/00-7/01    8/00-8/01    6/03
3.2.1. Electricity Privatization Advisor in State Property Funds  CS  1        886           QCBS          8/00        10/00       12/00       9/03
3.2.2. Gas Privatization Advisor in State Property Funds  CS     1             886           QCBS          8/00        10/00       12/00       6/03
3.2.3. Privatization and Financial Advisor (under PPF see table C2)   CS                                                                       9/03
3.2.4. Privatization Specialists (under PPF see table C2)  CS                                                                                  6/04
3.3. Public Relation                                     CS      1             110           QCBS          6/00        7/00        9/00        9/03
3.4.1. Financial Advisor in Kyrgyz Gas (KG)              CS      1             127           IC            6/00        7/00        9/00        9/03
3.4.2. Financial Specialists in KG                       CS      3             20            IC            7/00-7/01    9/00-9/01    11/00-11/01  9/03
3.5. Audit of KG                                         CS      1             205           QCBS          8/00        9/00        11/00       6/03
3.6.1. Social Sector Advisors (under PPF see table C2)   CS                                                                                    7.02
3.6.2. Social Sector Specialists (under PPF see table C2)  CS                                                                                  7/02
Component No. 4: Supporting Project Management                                                  .
4.1. Advisors to PIU (under PPF see table C2)            CS      5             190           IC            5/00-600    5/00-600    5/00-600    6/04
4,2. Project Audit (under PPF see table C2)              CS      1             15            LC            5/00        6/00        7/00        6/04
Component No. 5: Other Technical Assistance
5.1. Other Technical Assistance                          CS      4             80            IC            6/01-6/03    7/01-7/03    8/01-8/03    6/04
Component No. 6: Goods
6.1. Gas Meters                                          G       1             150           ICB           4/01        5/01        6/01        6/04
6.2. Parts and Equipment for Installation of Gas Meters and Office  G  2       350           ICB           1/01-4/01    3/01-6/01    6/01-9/01    7/02
Equipment
6.3. Parts and Equipment for Installation of Gas Meters and Office  G  6       330           IS            7/01-11/01   8/01-12/01   8/01-12/01   10/02
Equipment
6.4. Parts and Equipment for Installation of Gas Meters and Office  G  7       203           NS            7/01-11/01   8/01-12/01   8/01-12/01   8/02
Equipment (under PPF see table C20                                         ._____  ._____   .____
PPF Refinancing (see table C2)                                                 500
Total                   -_=                                                    5000
G= Goods; CS= Consultant Services; ICB = International Competitive Bidding; IS = International Shopping; QCBS = Quality and Cost Based Selection; and
I = Individual Consultant; LC= Least Cost; CQ= Consultant's Qualifications



Page 48
Annex 6, Table C2
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) - Procurement Plan
(Implementation Period: April 23, 2000 through July 30, 2000)
Description                                               Type    Number  of Estimated cost Procurement   Documents  Invitation   Contract   Contract
slices/itemsl  inc          method         submitted   to bid      signing    completion
sub-         contingency.(in              to Bank
packages     US$ '000)
I. Improving Business Envirownent
1.1 Private Sector Development Advisor                   CS       1            79             IC             6/00        6/00        6/00       3/02
II. Strengthening State Energy Agency's (SEA) Capacity
2.1. State Energy Agency Advisor on Electricity           CS      1            50              IC            5/00        5/00        6/00       6/03
2.2. State Energy Agency Advisor on Gas                   CS      1            50             IC             5/00        5/00        6/00       6/03
2.3. Regulatory Specialists                               CS      3            28              IC            5/00        5/00        6/00       6/03
III. Improving State Property Fund's (SPF) Capacity
3.1. Privatization and Financial Advisor                  CS      1            130            IC             6/00        6/00        6/00       9/03
3.2. Privatization Specialists                           CS       4            20             IC             5/00-6/00    5/00-6/00   6/00      6/04
IV. Supporting Social Compensation Strategy
4.1. Social Sector Advisors                               CS      2            48              IC            5/00-6/00    5/00-6/00   6/00      7/02
4.2. Social Sector Specialists                            CS      6            10             IC             5/00-6/00    5/00 6/00   6/00      7/02
V. Supporting Project Management
5.1. Procurement Specialist                               CS      1            31              IC            5/00        5/00        6/00       7/02
5.2. Other Specialists                                    CS      4            20              IC            5/00        5/00        6/00       6/04
5.3. Project Audi                                         CS      1            15             LC             5/00        6/00        7/00       6/04
5.4 Office Equipment and Supply                           G       1            19              NS            5/00        5/00        6/00       7/02
Total                                                                          500
G= Goods; CS= Consultant Services; ICB = International Competitive Bidding; IS = Intemational Shopping; QCBS = Quality and Cost Based Selection; and
I = Individual Consultant; LC= Least Cost; CQ= Consultant's Qualifications



Page 49
Annex 6, Table D
Procurement Information
Section 1: Procurement Review
Element                     ICB                 NCB                 IS                 NS                 Consultants     Other
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ ____ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ____ ___   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ m eth o d s
1.   Procurement   method  US$100,000    and  N/A                   Below US$100,000   Below $50,000      Firms    over
thresholds                  above                                                                         US$ 50,000
Individuals
over
US$20,000
2. Prior Review             All                 All                 First two Contract   First two contracts  All
3. Ex-post Review           Few contracts are subject to Ex-post review.
Section 2. Capacity of the Impl ementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance Requirements
4. Brief statement          A procurement specialist will be hired in the PIU. The position will continue throughout the project life. The procurement
specialist will prepare all requisite procurement documents and train govemment officials in the Bank procurement
methods. In addition, he will be assisted by a suitable expatriate consultant during the first year of the project.
5. Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy  6. Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the first
Paper status: Under preparation                                        year ready by negotiations? No. The preparation of bid documents and
Request for Proposals will start after negotiations of the project. The
procurement consultant will assist in the preparation of bid documents
following Bank Guidelines.
Section 3. Training, Information and Development on Procurement
7. Estimated date of Project 8. Estimated date of 9. Indicate if contracts  10. Domestic Preference for Goods  11. Domestic  Preference  for
Launch Workshop             publication     of are subject to mandatory                                Works, if applicable
General            SPN  in  Development Yes.                              N/A
06/30/00                    Procurement Notice  Business
02/16/00           Yes.
12. Retroactive financing.  No.                                        13. Advanced procurement    No.
14. Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System and Information System: Information on procurement would be collected and recorded to provide: (i)
prompt reporting of contract awards by the Borrower; (ii) full quarterly reports to IDA; and (iii) changes in procurement schedules, including advertising,
bidding, contract awards and completion dates. All contract documentation will be kept by the PIU and made available to IDA for ex-post review. All receipts
and other supporting documents for Statement of Expenses (SOEs) will be maintained on file in the PIU and made available to IDA for review during
supervision missions.
Section 4. Procurement Staffing
15. Indicate name of Procurement Staff as part of the Project Team responsible for the procurement in the project:
Name: Gurcharan Singh, Procurement Specialist Extension: 80890
16. Explain briefly the expected role of the Field 0ffice in Procurement: Liaison work.



Page 50
Annex 6, Table E
Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category             Amount in US$         Financing Percentage
A. Goods                         947,800                100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory) and 85% of
expenditures for other items
procured locally
B. Consulting Services and Training   3,123,000         100%
C. Incremental Operating Costs   199,400               95% of expenditures incurred
through December 31, 2001
and 85% thereafter.
D. Refinancing of PPF            500,000
E. Unallocated                   229,800
Total Project Costs              5,000,000



Page 51
Annex 6 Table F
Assessment of the Capacity
of the Implementation Agency to Conduct Procurement
Basis of Report
1.   This report is based on the discussions held between the pre-appraisal mission which visited
Bishkek in January, 2000 and the staff of the newly established Project Implementation Unit (PJU) for the
proposed Technical Assistance Credit.
Scope of the Review
2.   The capacity review includes the assessment of the capacity of the implementing agencies to carry
out the different phases of the procurement cycle. It addresses the legal aspect, procurement cycle
management, organizations and functions, support and control systems, record keeping, staffing, general
procurement environment, and general risk assessment. Thresholds for prior review and an action plan to
build the PIU' s capacity are recommended.
Project Objectives and Descriptions
3.    Objective: The proposed Technical Assistance Credit (TAC) project is intended to help implement
reform measures under the Consolidation Structural Adjustment Credit (CSAC) by building and
strengthening the country's institutional capacity: (i) to improve the business environment, (ii) to improve
the revenue mobilization and (iii) to support reform in the energy sector.
4.   Project Components: The TAC consists of three major components: (i) improving business
environment; (ii) improving revenue mobilization; (iii) supporting reform in the energy sector.
Project Procurement Activities
5.   The project would finance the procurement of goods and services as follows:  (i) technical
assistance services for the business environment, (ii) revenue mobilization; and (iii) supporting reform in
the energy sector and procurement goods including gas meters , parts and equipment for installation of
gas meters, office equipment computers, printers, fax machines and photocopiers etc.
6.   Organization of Implementation. The State Property Funs(SPF) will have overall responsibility for
project implementation.
7.   Assessment of PIU's Capacity to Conduct Procurement.
(a)  Legal Aspects. In order to implement the IDA Credit in an efficient and timely manner and
to ensure monitoring, the PIU was established on January 15, 2000 under the order of the Chief of
the President's office.
(b)  Procurement Organization and Cycle. The PIU is in the process of hiring a procurement
officer who is experienced in public procurement as well as in procurement under Bank-financed
projects. The hiring of a procurement officer will be in accordance with the procurement
guidelines.



Page 52
(c)  Support and Control Aspects. The PIU has access to the government legal advisors,
technical and financial departments as well as all ministries including the state procurement
agency. The PIU is subject to audit by independent auditors. The public auditing practices in the
country are yet to be strengthened.
8.   Risk Analysis. Kyrgyz Republic has a public procurement law which is based on principles of
economy, efficiency and transparency. It has an independent public procurement agency which is active
in ensuring effective implementation of the public procurement law. Nevertheless, this is a "high risk"
country from the procurement point of view. There are two reasons for this conclusion. First, it will take
some time before the provisions of the law are translated into practice; and second, the economic
atmosphere in which the law operates is not fully conducive to fair and transparent procurement
processes.
9.   General Procurement Environment. Professionals involved in procurement are respected. While
salaries are not lower than in the other public sector entities, but they are far lower than in the private
sector. Therefore, it is difficult to attract young, well trained and motivated candidates. The procurement
process is quite straightforward in that no special approvals and clearances are required and the decisions
lie entirely with the tendering committees.
General Risk Assessment
10.  The recommendation is that the agency be rated as a high risk. The reasons are summarized as
follows: (i) the practice of the public procurement law is too short and experience in its implementation is
too weak to draw any meaningful conclusion on the present capacity to run competitive procurement;
(ii) there are no adequate independent controls and audit systems in place; (iii) staff
recruitment/promotion is not fully based on competitive selection procedures; and (iv) the bureaucratic
system may create opportunities for corruption.
Recommendations
11.  Action Plan to Build the Agency Capacity. Based on the analysis, the following action plan is
recommended:
a.. The procurement will be centralized in a PIU. The PIU will work in close coordination of other
beneficiary agencies and the supervisory council for World Bank CSAC and TAC implementation.
The supervisory council has been created by the office of the Kyrygz Republic's President. The
President is the Chief of the Council and other members are from the Ministry of Finance and other
rninistries.
b.  One international procurement specialist (PS) would be assigned to assist the PrU in
implementing procurement activities for the project. The PS should have experience with World
Bank procurement procedures and practices. The PS could be hired on a sharing or part-time basis.
c. One local procurement specialist will be hired to work under the supervision of the PIU director
and the International Consultant. The selection will be competitive with the terms of reference to
be reviewed and approved by the World Bank.
d. The staff involved in procurement would be further trained by Bank staff during project
implementation, and by attending formal training in Bank-organized semninars.



Page 53
e. The PIU would define the composition of the tendering committees that will be responsible for
every step of the bidding/contracting process (preparation of the bidding documents/request for
proposals, advertising, invitation to bid, pre bid conference, evaluation, contracting, contract
adrninistration), flow of documents and signatory powers.
f. The Bank's standard Request for Proposal and bidding documents shall be used.
g. The Bank would organize a project-launch workshop after the Board approval to provide
additional procurement knowledge about Bank procurement procedures tailored to the specific
needs of the Credit.
h. The independent auditors would review project annually.
i. The Kyrygz Republic Resident Mission (RM) would provide assistance (liaison) in procurement.
The RM staff will send the requisite documents to the project team for clearances.
j. The Bank's standard procurement documents will be provided to the PIU just after Board
presentation.
k. During the first year of project implementation, two supervision missions, which will include a
procurement specialist, will be conducted.
Suggested Threshold for Prior Review
12.  Proposed prior review thresholds are on the conservative side reflecting the high risk rating and
lack of sufficient experience with Bank Procurement. Based on the thresholds stated below, all
procurement actions would be cleared by the Association. Prior review threshold for consulting firms
and contracts for individual consultants over $20,000 will take place. Irrespective of threshold, the TORs
and short lists for all consulting contracts would be approved by the Bank. In view of the fact that the
PIU is new, with no prior Bank procurement project experience, it is recommended that the following
thresholds for goods be applied under the proposed TAC:
ICB             -    >    $100,000
IS              -    <    $100,000
NS              -    <    $50,000
First two International and National Shopping contracts shall be subject to Association prior review.



Page 54
Annex 6, Table G
PROCUREMENT CAPACITY ASSSESSMENT
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS AND ACTIONS
Item Assessed                  Assessment                                      Risk Assessment
Null    Poor  Fair  Satis-        Major Weakness    Low    Ave.   High           Actions       Proposed
Factory                                                   Proposed      Completio
n Date
(a) Legal Aspects
(i) Laws and Regulations                X              State Procurement Law                   X    Need              On-going
(SPL) still needs                             amendments to
amendments and                               the procurement
modifications to comply                      legislation and
with transparency                            issue explanatory
process                                       regulations
(ii) NCB Procedures                     X              Prepared through IDA                          See above        On-going
and duly registered with
Ministry of Justice
(MOJ)
(iii) Internal Codes and  X                            No internal codes and                   X    See above         On-going
Manuals                                                   manuals exist
(b) Proc. Cycle Mgmt.
(i) General Handling      X                            No experience                           X    Continue          On-going
implement
.______                                        _____  training program
(ii) Procurement Planning    X                         No experience                           X    Continue          On-going
implement
training program
(iii) Preparation of      X                            No experience                           X    Prepare and       Project
Documents                                                                                               introduce sample  Launch
documents



Page 55
Item Assessed                Assessment                                      Risk Assessment
Null   Poor  Fair   Satis-   Major Weakness         Low    Ave.   High  Actions             Proposed
Factory                                               Proposed         Completion
Date
(iv) Mgmt. Of Process     X                           Limited experience                      X    Continue          On going
implement
training program
(v) Bid Evaluation        X                           Limited experience                      X    Prepare and       On going
implement
training programs
(vi) Contract Award       X                           Limited experience                      X    Improve           On-going
legislation
(vii) Preparation and     X                           Limited experience                      X    Continue          On-going
Signing of Contracts                                                                                   Implement
training program
(viii) Contract           X                           Limited experience                      X    Continue          On-going
Management                                                                                             Implement
training program
(c) Organization and
Functions
(i) Organization of Unit                X             Requirements need                       X    Determine         Project
and Functions                                            study                                         staffing needs   Launch
(ii) Internal Manuals and  X                          Absence of manual and                   X    State             On-going
Instructions                                             instructions                                  Procurement
Agency prepare
and dissem-inate
documents
(d) Support and Control
System
(i) Auditing              X                           PS has limited                          X    Conduct training   On-going
experience with WB                           and hire
accounting and auditing                      independent firm
procedures
(ii) Legal Assistance     X                           Limited legal assistance                X    Provide support     On going
if necessary



Page 56
Item Assessed                Assessment                                      Risk Assessment
Null  Poor  Fair  Satis-       Major Weakness        Low   Ave.   High   Actions              Proposed
Factory                                                 Proposed          Completion
Date
(iii) Technical and     X                             Limited experience                     X      Introduce training  Project
Admin.                                                                                                 programs          Launch
Controls
(iv) Code of Ethics            X                      Lack of implementation                 X      Enforce           Project
implementation    Launch
(v) Anti Corruption                   X               President decree exist                 X      Enforce           Project
Initiatives                                              but needs effective                          implementation    Launch
enforcement
(e) Record Keeping
(i) Public Notices      X                             No Experience                          X      Continue training   Project
programs         Launch
(ii) Bidding Documents  X                             No Experience                          X      Continue training   Project
programs         Launch
(iii) Bid Opening                                     No Experience                          X      Continue training   Project
Information                                                                                            programs          Launch
(iv) Bid Evaluation                                   No Experience                          X      Continue training   Project
Report                                                                                                 programs          Launch
(v) Formnal Appeals and                               No Experience                          X      Continue training   Project
Outcomes                                                                                               programs          Launch
(vi) Signed Contract                                  No Experience                          X      Continue training   Project
Document                   X                                                                           programs          Launch
(vii) Claims and Dispute    X                         No Experience                          X      Continue training   Project
Resolution Records                                                                                     programs          Launch



Page 57
Item Assessed                   Assessment                                  Risk Assessment
Null  Poor    Fair  Satis-   Major Weakness   Low   Ave.  High   Actions                  Proposed
factory                                          Proposed           Completion
Date
(viii) Comprehensive          X                             No experience                      X    Update Software    Effectiveness
Disbursement Data                                                                                                              ..
(f) Staffing                                     X             Required staff has                 X    Introduce training   Project
_______                    been hired                                                 Launch
(g) General Procurement
Environment
(i) Promoting a Culture of    X                             Lack of measures                   X    Introduce           On-going
Accountability                                                 to provide                               mandatory audit
accountability                          and sanctions for
non-comrliance
(ii) Reputation of Procurement    X                         Procurement corps                  X    Include measures to  On-going
Corps                                                          does not exist                           promote creation of
the procurement
corps in the civil
service reform
(iii) Salary Structure                X                     No salary structure                X    Include measures to  On-going
for procurement                         promote creation of
staff                                   the procurement
corps in the civil
service reform
(iv) Freedom From Political           X                     Interference in                    X    Introduce conflict   On-going
Interference                                                   public procurement                       of interest laws and
Observed                                ethical standards
for public service
(v) Existence of              X                             General lack of                    X    Introduce           On-going
Experienced And Capable Staff                                  procurement staff                        procurement stream
in civil service
accompanied by
training programs
(vi) Clear Written Standards  X                             Does not exist at                  X    Introduce clear     On-going
and Delegation of Authority                                    national level. PIU                      standards and
has delegation of                       delegation for this
authority                               project



Page 58
Item Assessed                    Assessment                                    Risk Assessment
Null   Poor   | Fair  Satis-   Major Weakness                              Actions      Proposed
factory                      Low   Ave.  High   Proposed    Completion
Date
(vii) Sound Budget and Financial    X                          Limited experience                 X       Introduce    Project
Systems                                                                                                    training      launch
(h) Private Sector Assessment
(i) General Efficiency and                      X
Predictability v,.
(ii) Transparency                        X
(iii) Quality of Contract                       X
Management
(iv) General Reputation                         X



Page 59
Prior Review Thresholds Proposed                                               Overall Risk Assessment
All ICB packages for goods and first two IS and NS packages.                      High
Consulting contracts with firm US$50,000 (equivalent), and                                  lixl
with individuals US$20,000 or more                                               Average
Post Review Ratio: minimum five contracts                                            Low
Frequency of Procurement Supervision Missions Proposed:                        Form Prepared By: Gurcharan Singh
One every 6 months (includes special procurement supervision                   (Procurement Specialist/Accredited Staff Assigned to the
for post-review/audits)                                                        Project)
Signat ur:_ _ __ __ _
Date:      2     2J
Comments: This is an assessment of the newly established TAC PIU in Kyrgyz Republic. The result of the analysis is that the country is in high risk from
the public procurement point of view. The PIU for the TAC will be responsible for implementing the Credit. The PIU will hire an expatriate procurement
advisor who will help PIU at initial stage in preparation of the procurement documents. Because PrU is new to the Bank procurement procedures, the
prior review thresholds recommended are those applicable to a high risk country. The threshold for the packages shall be: Goods exceeding $ 100,000
shall be procured using ICB; Goods costing less than $100,000 shall be procured using IS and Goods costing less than $ 50,000 shall be procured using
NS.



Page 60
Annex 7
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Technical Assistance Credit
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Project Schedule                         Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)      11/06/1999            11/12/1999
Pre appraisal mission                    01/26/2000            02/11/2000
Appraisal mission departure              03/12/2000            04/17/2000
Negotiations                             05/01/2000            05/02/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness            07/30/2000              I /19
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
M.R. Ghasimi                              Team Leader
L. Brefort                               Expert on Privatization
R.Annad                                  Program Team Leader
N. Haazen                                Financial Management Expert
G. Singh                                 Procurement Specialist
N. Soubbotin                             Counsel
H. Koilpillai                            Disbursement Officer
J. Smith                                  Program Assistant
A. Abdymomunov                           Resident Mission Economist
P. Ballard                               Peer reviewer
V.Atur                                   Peer reviewer



Page 61
Annex 8
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
Technical Assistance Credit
Documents in the Project File
1.   Kyrgyz Republic: Technical Assistance Credit - Pre-Appraisal Mission Back-to-Office Report,
February 22, 2000.
2.   Kyrgyz Republic: Technical Assistance Credit - Identification Mission Back-to-Office Report,
November 20, 1999.
3.   Kyrgyz Republic: Gas Metering Review, World Bank, March 2000.
4.   Kyrgyz Republic : Program of Denationalization and Privatization of Kyrgyz Gas Company, World
Bank, February 2000.
5.   Kyrgyz Republic: Review of Utility Services, DFID and World Bank, January 1999.



Page 62
Annex 9
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Kyrgyz Republic
Operations Portfolio
As of 12-Jul-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                                disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                    Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 6
Active Projects
KG-PE-38569     1999   GOVT. OF KYRGYZ REPUBLIC          SOCIAL SEC. ADJUST.                      0.00       36.50        0.00              17.87        -.40        0.00
KG-PE-62682     1999   KYRGYZ REPUBLIC                   FLOOD EMERGENCY                          0.00       10.00        0.00               9.42        1.01        0.00
KG-PE-64585     1999   GOVERNMENT OF KYRGYZ             RURAL FINANCE II                          0.00       15.00        0.00              14.85        0.00        0.00
KG-PE-40721     1998   GOVT. OF KYRGYZ REPUBLIC         AGRIC. SUPPORT. SERV                      0.00       14.98        0.00              14.03        1.15        0.00
KG-PE-46042     1998   GOVT. OF THE KYRGYZ REPUB         IRRIGATION REHAB.                        0.00       35.00        0.00              31.12       -1.00        0.00
KG-PE-8520      1997   KYRGYZ REPUBLIC                   RURAL FINANCE                            0.00       16.00        0.00               3.88       -4.18        0.00
XG-PE-45631     1996   THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC               FINANCIAL SEC. TECH.                     0.00        3.40        0.00               1.51        1.56        0.00
KG-PE-8513      1996   GOVT OF KYRGYZ                    SHEEP & WOOL IMPROV.                     0.00       11.60        0.00               6.50        2.06        0.00
KG-PE-8519      1996   GOVT. OF KYRGYZ REPUBLIC          POWER & DIST. HEAT                       0.00       35.00        0.00              30.72       12.39       20.56
KG-PE-8523      1996   GOV'T OF KYRGYZ REPUBLIC         HEALTH                                    0.00       18.50        0.00               4.70       -1.34        0.00
KG-PE-8524      1995   GOVT OF KYRGHYZSTAN               PRIV. ENTERP. SUPP.                      0.00       15.00        0.00              12.66       12.67        0.00
KG-PE-8518      1994   GOV. OF KYRGYZ REP.               TELECOMMUNICATIONS                       0.00       18.00        0.00               1.67        -.52        0.00
Total                                                                                             0.00      228.98        0.00             148.93       23.40       20.56
Active Projects       Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                  73.56              269.51              343.07
of which has been repaid:                  0.00                0.00                0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 228.98              269.00              497.98
Amount sold                                       0.00                0.00                0.00
Of which repaid                                0.00                0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed                :              148.93                 .88              149.81
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 30-Jun-99.



Page 63
Annex 10
Kyrgyz Republic
Technical Assistance Credit
Financial Management
General
A review of Financial Management System was undertaken to (a) review the presence of the necessary
elements for a sound project financial management system such as internal controls, project accounting,
project staffing and audit arrangements; (b) assess the project's capacity and readiness for the
implementation of LACI; and (c) prepare a time-bound action plan for strengthening the financial
management system to achieve Project Management Reports (PMR) that would assist the implementing
agency to move toward LACI.
Project Management and Coordination and Staffing
The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will be directly responsible for financial management during the
project life. The PIU will be located in the State Property Fund (SPF) and reports to the Chairman of
SPF.
The PrIU has recruited a full time chief financial officer (Chief Accountant), a project Accountant, and an
Office Manager, who will be spending part of her time on financial issues. The CFO would be
responsible for financial management and control under the project and would report to the PRU's
Executive Director. To ensure the proper segregation of duties, the project Accountant will be
responsible for reviewing invoices and contracts and preparing all payment documents. These will be
entered into the system by the Office Manager, and reviewed and released in the system by the CFO. The
Office Manager will also be responsible for maintaining a small amount of petty cash, which will be
periodically reviewed and replenished by the project's accountant.
Accounting
A project financial and accounting system has been selected and implemented, with the assistance of local
fmancial consultants. The Sl software package has a switchable English-Russian language capability,
can record multiple currencies, and has the capability of recording payments against established contract
amounts, so that contract balances can be monitored. This system has, inter alia, the capacity to record
and retrieve in a timely manner all financial transactions under the project. The system: (a) records and
reports all assets, liabilities, and financial transactions of the project; and (b) provides reliable financial
information for managing and monitoring project activities. The accounting system (chart of accounts)-is
classified by component and category of expenditure, and is able to capture data by sub-component at the
level of individual facilities. It also reflects the source of funds. Furthermore, it provides information on
the receipt and use of funds and is able to produce financial reports, comparing budget with actual
expenditures at any given time. The system, as established, is capable of providing financial data to
measure performance when linked to the outputs of the project.
Financial Reporting
Although an acceptable financial management system has been established, disbursements will start using
traditional disbursements methods - SOEs reimbursements, direct payments, etc. After the PIU has
gained experience with the financial management system and reporting under project management reports



Page 64
(PMRs), and provided that the financial management system is reviewed and found capable of handling
it, the project will move to PMR-based disbursements. The PIU will maintain accounts for the project
and will be responsible for preparing Project Management Reports (PMR - see Annex 9 of the Project
Financial Management Manual) on a quarterly basis, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after
the end of each calendar quarter, a PMR for such period, which:
(a) (i) sets forth actual sources and application of funds for the project, both cumulatively and for
the period covered by said report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the project
for the six-month period following the period covered by said report and (ii) separately shows
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the credit during the period covered by said report and
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the credit during the six-month period
following the period covered by said report;
(b) (i) describes physical progress in project implementation, both cumulatively and for the period
covered by said report, and (ii) explains variances between the actual and previously forecast
implementation targets; and
(c) sets forth the status of procurement under the project and expenditures under contracts financed
out of the proceeds of the credit, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
Project Financial Management Manual (FMM
A Project Financial Management Manual (FMM) has been and completed. It includes the financial
management policy and procedures developed during the course of establishing the financial management
system. This manual includes (a) special emphasis on accounting and auditing policies, standards and
internal controls; (b) the role of the financial management systems in project management and
implementation; (c) the accounting arrangements required for project management, the format for and
content of project financial reporting; and (d) the auditing arrangements that will be used during project
implementation.
Auditing
The PIU will be responsible for ensuring that the financial statement, Special Account, and SOEs are
audited by an independent auditor, acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with standards on auditing that
are acceptable to the Bank. The annual audit will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines for
Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (March 1982). The audit
report shall be in a format in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing promulgated by the
International Federation of Accountants (IFAC). The audit report will include a separate opinion for
SOEs against which disbursements have been made or are due to be made from the Credit and SOEs
which will be included in the audit report accompanying the financial statements.
The audited financial statements of the special accounts, and SOEs of the preceding fiscal year, including
a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements made against certified statement of expenditures, will
be sent to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
The audit of the financial statement will include: (a) an assessment of the adequacy of accounting and
internal control systems to monitor expenditures and other financial transactions and ensure safe custody
of project-financed assets; (b) a determination as to whether the project implementing entities have
maintained adequate documentation on all relevant transactions; and (c) verification that expenditures
submitted to the Bank are eligible for financing and identification of any ineligible expenditures.



Page 65
The estimated overall budget for auditing under the project would be around $30,000, which appears to be
reasonable, given the size of the project. Auditing services would be procured on a least-cost basis, and
packaged as a recurring audit, with no requirement for a new engagement letter, except in special
circumstances. The PIU has already prepared terms of reference and a short list, and these have received
a No Objection from the Bank.
Bank FMS Staffing and Supervision
The project was reviewed in detail by Bank FMS during appraisal in March 2000. It is recommended by
the FMS that the country environment and implementing agency's capacity suggest that the project not
use PMR-based disbursement at this time. During the project life, an FMS will take part in supervision
missions to monitor the FM of the PIU.
Special Account
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government has established, and will maintain and
operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account, denominated in US
Dollars. The minimum amount of the application should be 20 percent of the authorized allocation. The
replenishment applications must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate
supporting documents. A conversion account (USD to Kyrgyz Som) may also be established, as well as
separate accounts for Government contributions (USD and conversion) and other co-financiers.
The Government will be responsible for the appropriate accounting of the funds provided by the IDA
under the Credit, for reporting on the use of these funds, and for ensuring that audits of the financial
statements or reports are submitted to the Bank. A computerized accounting system is being established
at the PIU. Once trained, the Accountants at the PIU would maintain and prepare quarterly financial
reports as part of Project Management Reports.
Conclusion
Significant progress has been made on the project financial management system and related
documentation, and it now fully satisfies the Bank's rninimum financial management requirements.



Page 66
Annex 11
Summary of Project Implementation Plan
Kyrgyz Republic Technical Assistance Credit (TAC)
Improving Business Environment - Indicative Project Implementation Plan
Year 1       Year 2       Year 3        Year 4       Year 5       Total
(02100-01/01)  (02/01-01102)  (02/02-01/03)  (020-01/04)  (02104-01/05) |m/m
Capacity Building
Intemational Consultants - Short-Term   4 m/m                                                               4
Improving Business Environment       m                                                                  (4)
Local Consultants                       6 m/m        6 mim                                                 12
Business Surveys                         _                                                             (12)
Improving Revenue Mobilisation - Indicative Project Implementation Plan
Year t       Year 2       Year 3        Year 4       Year 5       Total
(02A00-01101)  (02101-01/02)  (02102-01/03)  (0203-0114)  (02104-0105)    rn/m
Capacity Building
International Consultants - Long-Term   6 m/m        6 mVm                                                 12
Improving Revenue Mobilisation           _      _                                                      (12)
Intemational Consultants - Short-Term                6 n/m                                                  6
Improving Revenue Mobilisation                     _                                                    (6)
6 Local Consultants                     6 m/m        12 m/m                                                108
Improving Revenue Mobilisation                                                                         (108)



Page 67
Improving Financial Conditions of Energy Utilities - Indicative Project Implementation Plan
Year I      Year 2       Year 3       Year 4        Year 5      Total
(02100-01/01)    (02101-    (02102-01103)  (02103-01/04)  (02104-01/05)    mn/rm
01102)
Sub-Component 1: State Energy Agency
2 Intemational Consultants - Long-Term   6 m/m       12 M/m                                               36
Strengthening State Energy Agency                                                                     (36)
Intemational Consultants - Short-Term                              9 m/m                                  9
Strengthening State Energy Agency                                                                     (9)
8 Local Consultants                      6 m/m       12 m/m                                               192
Strengthening State Energy Agency                                                                    (192)
Sub-Component 2: State Property Fund
2 International Consultants - Long-Term  6 m/m        8 mim                                               24
Privatisation                                                                                         (24)
4 Local Consultants                      6                                                                16
Privatisation                                                                                         (64)
Sub-Component 3: Kyrgyzgas
Intemational Consultants - Long-Term     4 m/m        4 n/m                                               B
Financial Strengthening                  *                                                            (8)
3 Local Consultants                      6 m/m        6 m/m                                               12
Financial Strengthening                                                                               (36)
Sub-Component 4: Heat Study
International Consultants - Long-Term    6 mnm        6 mnm                                               12
Heat Strategy                                                                                         (12)
4 Local Consultants                      6                                                                12
Heat Strategy                                                                                         (48)
Sub-Component 5: Social Impact
4 Intemational Consultants - Short-Term  7 Vm/m    _                                                       7
Social Impact                                 E                                                        (7)
6 Local Consultants                      6 m/m                                                            18
Social Impact                             _                                                           (18)



Page 68
Annex 12: Kyrgyz Republic at a glance   9
POVERFTY and SOCtALKWy                                          trl       o-
Rep$; t   :; ;;-           0     :0ublIc. A0ia.   j ;   .Development diamond'
Population, mid-year (millIons)                       4.7       473 Q                          Life expectancy
GP pe capitia (Atlas method Lisp)30                          210
GNP (Atlas me-hod LiS$blflioros)                       1,7  ,1,0         1,844
Popu9lation;~; ( %)3f 000:g00f J 0 5000- t 0-0: t;0;     0.7000;t f0 04 001 G   1.7               fGros
Laorore(9              e    ; ;S 0X6)0;  00 00; t 0 t 0 t 1.1  0.8         1.00'9.    GNP                           Gross
per                            primary
II  roce~$tIfl1ate (latest year available, 192-98~caPita                                   enrollment
Poverty(%MWp o............. po:ultSionX:0 belo  nationlE0 poverSt:y i/ne)A , 51 :
Lifeexpcancatbirth (years)3000                         87 8l:; $   $002 ;D 0; : ;d f00000 .00069  63
infant mortility (per 1,000  ebirts)                   28        23        89
Child malnutrition(%       - o(h e under )             11t         . ;%ofci.. I              Access to safe water
Accessto safe water (% of populton) :7                             .       74
Iliterac (% a   puaWln age 15~                     97         4        '32
XGross primary enrollment (% of school a p. popu )    10 t40     l      : 108si             -  Kyrgyz Republic
0 SMale;                f :: :S: Q ; it: ;V$ft fV f0 y y 108  101    113a              -Low-income group
:Female                                             1zed03      99       1 B m  :tS    !9:03:i   ............................ __ o a . :_03  .
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-EMTED
Economic ratlaa
GP (US$ bions                                                   to ..1 1,  1.8
Groe domestic iwestmentGoP                                      21.7       00                     Trade
Exponts af:ood and servicestlGDP               ..               38?       37,0                    Trad
Gross domestics vng:op
Gaross nlIibeli savng'P       ;  t0  :;00;  $.0000   0.,0       13. 09#:i0   -12.800 
Curretaccounan e/GOP                          .        ..      -                  Domesticba%nqe/GDP
Total deb 0 t/GOP00                                  00000 t$0               i      .   0  .^ 00  00000  . ..................... 8.9  0 0 0^000 ;0g l;000 tf Qd ................ Savings  Investrnent
Total debt service/exports                             ..       124       18.8
Present value0 ofdebtGDP                      ..       ..       37.8
Present value f detioexports                  ..       ., Ie ds
Indebtedness
(aerag annyal pro wti)
GO                                    .      7.         ,        18         l              -       Kyrgyz Republic
GNP per capita                       .,              0  8.7     -2.0       2.0                   Low-income group
Ex  ors fgo   andserv ~ s               0         ;     . . : :15,2S i: 20,1   -11 .5  2.0 :   __  __  ________  ___  __________
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1997      1998      Growth rates ot output and bnvestment (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                         40
Agriculture                                   ..       ..       44.6      43.6
Industry                                      ..       ..       22.8      21.6     20-.
Manufacturing                                ..       1. 17.9           18.9      0
Services                                      ..       ..       32.6      34.9     2                             7   9
Private consumption                           ..       ..       69.9      93.6    40.-
General govemment consumption                 ..       ..       16.3      17.3               -    GDI     -         GOP
Imports of goods and services                  ..               48.2      58.0
1976-86  1987-98      1997      1998
(average annual growth)                                                            Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                   ..        ..       7.0       6.0    40
Industry                                      ..       ..        5.0       5.0    20
Manufacturing                                ..
Services                                      ..                20.2      -2.6    20.-   93                     97   N
Private consumption                           ..       ..         ..        .. 
General government consumption                 ..40.
Gross domestic investment                     ..       ..         ..        ..     0
Imports of goods and services                  ..      ..       11.7      27.7                  Exports   -       Imports
Gross national product                         ..       .._.._..
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
' The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



MAP SECTION






I ___ _ _ _ _ ______________________________ _B_____ _ _                                                                                                                                                                                           I IBRD 26822R1
707                                                                                                                                                                            80                v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
-a ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
TAJIKISTAN  R  4  '7                                                                                                      RAILROADKAZAKHSTANS
72  T'r:s 0 ........ ) S2X,,.t \                                                                                                                                                            M | \ T AINn7y RO ADS: A
~~~hdp- At.----   TERROD
r                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NATIONLAL CAPITAD ; +_, C  L T   L  _  ,,
;  ~~~~~~~~~s,JoW  wS  C<E,X,,</ ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~@                                                                                                                 RAS   APTL
S   Sulukh   . ] r   C                                     / / -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ELCE CTE
N  ~ ~ ~   RoIEosR  /~~~~~t2A                                                                                                                                                                                  ORLAST ROSNDARIES~N A     Y 
X\                                 .                (,                                                                                                                                                                               . KY GY ITRNATION LRNAIRC
2151               o          .oNoeTAJ I~                                        K                                                          I                       S      2              T      A         Z..,,RILROAD
ClLA        r'                    (jlA-Elih OH  Iosirgs   (                                                                                                                                                                                 -       hiAdROAD
ECF A  FHAtIIIS'k                                                                   <4                                                            s     S    .Sn         *o      'LA  0 h U f erfrZO   : n ere    25  T50O  7S  100
.-x  /   ;   \   _.  _  _. ~  AP91L199D
RAILROADS~~~~~~ARI 19



