                                     Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00001534



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (Credit No.: IDA33890)



                                       ON A

                                      CREDIT

    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR3.8 MILLION (US$5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                             KYRGYZ REPUBLIC

                                       FOR A

                      TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT

                                 June 27, 2010




Sustainable Development Department
Central Asia Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                  CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
                        (as of December 2009)
                            Currency Unit = Som
                            US$1 = Som 43.92201
                            US$1 = SDR0.63788
                        WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                             Metric System

                               FISCAL YEAR

                          January 1 to December 31

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAA     Analytical and Advisory Activity
ADB     Asian Development Bank
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CHP     Combined Heat and Power
CIS     Commonwealth of Independent States
CSAC    Consolidation Structural Adjustment Credit
DH      District Heating
DISCO   Distribution Companies
DPL     Development Policy Loan
FSU     Former Soviet Union
FEZ     Free Economic Zone
FMR     Financial Management Reports
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GOKR    Government of Kyrgyz Republic
IAS     International Accounting Standards
IDA     International Development Association
IMF     International Monetary Fund
ISR     Implementation Status Report
KE      Kyrgyzenergo
KG      Kyrgyzgas
KR      Kyrgyz Republic
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MOF     Ministry of Finance
MOLSP   Ministry of Labor & Social Protection
MTTP    Mid-Term Tariff Policies
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PHRD    Policy and Human Resources Development
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
PRGF    Poverty Reduction Growth Facility
SCI     State Customs Inspectorate
SDR     Special Drawing Rights
SEA     State Energy Agency
SPF     State Property Fund
STI     State Tax Inspectorate
TA      Technical Assistance
TAC     Technical Assistance Credit
TTL     Task Team Leader
TPP     Thermal Power Plant
VAT     Value Added Tax
USAID   United States Agency for International Development



                       Vice President: Philippe H. Le Houerou
                     Country Director: Motoo Konishi
                      Sector Manager: Ranjit J. Lamech
                 Project Team Leader: Mirlan Aldayarov
                    ICR Team Leader: Mirlan Aldayarov
                                   The Kyrgyz Republic
                                Technical Assistance Credit




                                      CONTENTS

Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
3. Assessment of Outcomes
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
6. Lessons Learned
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 2. Outputs by Component
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Result
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Consolidated Technical
Country:                Kyrgyz Republic         Project Name:
                                                                          Assistance (TA) Project
Project ID:             P069814                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-33890
ICR Date:               06/30/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     TAL                     Borrower:                 KYRKYZ REPUBLIC
Original Total
                        XDR 3.8M                Disbursed Amount:         XDR 2.2M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 2.4M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Energy
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process             Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       01/04/2000     Effectiveness:            09/13/2000         09/13/2000
Appraisal:            04/12/2000     Restructuring(s):                            04/24/2003
Approval:             06/22/2000     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                  07/31/2004         12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                    Ratings
                        Moderately                                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government:
                        Unsatisfactory                                    Unsatisfactory
                                                Implementing              Moderately
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:          Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower          Moderately
                        Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:              Unsatisfactory




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     80                  80
Oil and gas                                                           20                  20


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                22                  22
Legal institutions for a market economy                               11                  11
Regulation and competition policy                                     23                  23
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization                 22                  22
Tax policy and administration                                         22                  22

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou               Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          Motoo Konishi                        Kiyoshi Kodera
Sector Manager:            Ranjit J. Lamech                     Pradeep K. Mitra
Project Team Leader:       Mirlan Aldayarov                     Mohammad Reza Ghasimi
ICR Team Leader:           Mirlan Aldayarov
ICR Primary Author:        Mirlan Aldayarov
                           Sati Achath
                           Fan Zhang


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Technical Assistance Credit (TAC) was intended to help implement reform measures
under the Consolidated Structural Adjustment Credit (CSAC). TAC aimed to help build


                                                ii
and strengthen the country's institutional capacity to: (i) improve the business
environment; (ii) improve revenue mobilization; and (iii) support energy sector reform.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The objectives were not revised during the project implementation.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target       Formally       Actual Value
                                               Values (from          Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval            Target        Completion or
                                               documents)            Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Custom revenues increased
Value
                                             Customs revenues
quantitative or   KGS 306.6 mln in 1999                                          KGS1,664.0 mln.
                                             increased
Qualitative)
Date achieved     08/09/2000                 12/31/2005                          12/31/2005
Comments          No baseline values were identified at appraisal, the impact was assessed based on
(incl. %          the National Statistics Committee data. Retroactive comparison shows 543
achievement)      percent increase (from KGS306.6 mln in 1999 to KGS1,664.0 mln in 2005).
Indicator 2 :     Improve business environment.
                                             Surveys indicate at
                                             least 5% increase
Value
                  No baseline survey was in satisfaction with
quantitative or                                                                  No data available.
                  carried out                reforms in
Qualitative)
                                             business
                                             environment.
Date achieved     08/09/2000                 05/31/2005                          05/31/2005
Comments          No baseline survey has been carried and impact was assessed based on USAID-
(incl. %          funded survey. Measures to simplify registration, licensing and inspections were
achievement)      enacted. However, the total number of new business start-ups remains stagnant.
Indicator 3 :     Privatize energy utility companies
                                                                                 Two power
                                                                                 distribution
                                             Facilitate                          companies were
                                             privatization of                    privatized.
                                             electricity                         However,
Value                                        distribution                        transparency and
                  No energy company
quantitative or                              companies,                          integrity of the
                  privatized
Qualitative)                                 including complete                  process was
                                             sale of at least one                questionable that
                                             distribution                        led to annulment of
                                             company                             privatization results
                                                                                 after the project
                                                                                 closure.
Date achieved     08/09/2000                 12/31/2009                          12/31/2009
Comments          Several actions were taken to prepare for the privatization. (a) KE#s unbundling;
(incl. %          (b) the parliamentary approval for privatization; and (c) the largest two distr.
achievement)      companies were privatized. However, privatization process was annulled in


                                                  iii
                  Spring 2010.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target                  Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                                Values (from                     Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                             Revised
                                                   approval                     Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                                 documents)                     Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Increased private sector activities
                                                                              The number of new
                                            Number of start-
Value                                                                         business start-ups
                No baseline survey has      ups and operating
(quantitative                                                                 remained stagnant
                been carried out            business increased
or Qualitative)                                                               and even showed a
                                            annually
                                                                              decline.
Date achieved     08/09/2000                 08/09/2000                       05/31/2005
Comments          Based on the data from USAID-funded survey of 2003 indicates that the number
(incl. %          of new business start-ups remained stagnant and even showed a decline: the
achievement)      number of active SMEs went down from 9000 in 1999 to 7800 in 2002.
Indicator 2 :     Facilitate the energy sector restructuring
                                             KE is restructured               KE was unbundled
                                             and unbundled                    into one generation,
Value             Kyrgyzenergo (KE) is a
                                             into generation,                 one transmission
(quantitative     vertically integrated
                                             transmission, and                and four
or Qualitative)   monopoly.
                                             distribution                     distribution
                                             components.                      Companies.
Date achieved     08/09/2000                 12/31/2009                       12/31/2009
                  Towards the end of the second half of 2001 KE was split into one generation
Comments
                  company, one transmission (and dispatch) company, four distribution companies
(incl. %
                  and one District Heating company, each with its own Charter, Board of
achievement)
                  Directors, Management and staff
Indicator 3 :     Energy sector strategy is developed and adopted
                                                                              The National
                                             Energy sector                    Energy Program
Value                                        development                      (i.e. energy sector
(quantitative     No sector strategy exists strategy is adopted               strategy) was
or Qualitative)                              by the                           developed and
                                             Government                       adopted by the
                                                                              Government
Date achieved     08/09/2000                 12/31/2009                       12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %        The National Energy Program (NEP) was adopted by the Government in 2008.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Mid-Term Tariff Policy (MTTP) is developed and adopted
                                        MTTP is
                                                                        MTTP was adopted
Value                                   developed,
                                                                        with the first tariff
(quantitative   No MTTP exists          adopted, and its
                                                                        adjustment in July
or Qualitative)                         implementation
                                                                        2008.
                                        started



                                                 iv
Date achieved 08/09/2000                   12/31/2009                          12/31/2009
                The MTTP adopted in November 2009 was quite aggressive, with 56 per cent
Comments
                and 114 per cent for industrial and household consumers, respectively tariff
(incl. %
                adjustment in January 2010. However, due to public opposition, it was rolled-
achievement)
                back in April 2010.
                Improved Operational and financial performance of energy utility companies
Indicator 5 :
                (losses, collections)
                                                                               Losses decreased to
                (a)      losses in 2001                                        25.5 percent
Value
                were at 41.8 percent and No target
(quantitative
                (b)      collections in    indicators set                      Collections
or Qualitative)
                2000 were at 51 percent                                        increased to 93
                                                                               percent
Date achieved 08/09/2000                   12/31/2009                          12/31/2009
Comments        No baseline and target indicators were set at project appraisal. The Bank team
(incl. %        regularly collected the energy utility companies performance data. The data
achievement) from the Regulatory Agency indicates substantial improvements

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                             DO                            IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     08/16/2000         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     10/12/2000         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.08
  3     01/23/2001         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.09
  4     06/07/2001         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.24
  5     09/28/2001         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.64
  6     06/10/2002         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     1.52
  7     08/05/2002         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     1.56
  8     09/05/2002         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     1.56
  9     06/19/2003         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     1.87
 10     12/24/2003         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     1.94
 11     06/25/2004         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     2.16
 12     12/08/2004         Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     2.48
 13     06/27/2005     Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory              2.56
 14     02/02/2006         Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory              2.56
 15     06/18/2007        Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory                    2.64
 16     04/28/2008     Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory              2.79
 17     12/30/2008     Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory              2.85
 18     12/29/2009     Moderately Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     2.93


H. Restructuring (if any)




                                                 v
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Adding a new disbursement
 04/24/2003               S       S           1.85
                                                     component "Works"




I. Disbursement Profile




                                       vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and Sector Background: The Kyrgyz Republic began its transition to a market
economy in 1990. At that time, access to electricity, roads, and telecommunications had
reached adequate levels and the necessary infrastructure networks, though aging and
poorly maintained for several years, were in place. The loss of direct transfers, following
the breakup of the Former Soviet Union (FSU), the terms of trade shocks, and the
country's inability to restructure its productive sectors resulted in an approximately 60
percent decline in Gross Domestic Product (GDP) during the first half of the 1990s. The
Russian crisis hit the economy in the latter half of 1998, halting output recovery and
weakening initiatives that had begun to contain social erosion. The country's prospects
for economic recovery and macroeconomic stability hinged on continued fiscal
consolidation aimed at reducing the fiscal deficit through: carrying out revenue
mobilization; expenditure control; rationalization policies; improving the country's
infrastructure; and trade links.
Rationale for Bank Assistance: The Government recognized that sustainable economic
growth would depend on adopting structural reforms, including reducing the state's role
in commercial activities and improving the business environment to promote private
sector activities. The objective was to improve the fiscal and business environment, while
ensuring that a minimum acceptable level of access and standard of utility service was
preserved for the poorest elements of the society. For achieving the objective, the
Program was designed to focus on four key elements: tax reform, improvements to
business environment, reform of utilities, and social protection.
The energy sector was a key contributor to the macroeconomic imbalance. High
operational inefficiency, low tariffs, and poor collections made the state-owned energy
utilities a major economic burden, as they contributed substantially to the fiscal and
quasi-fiscal deficits. Reform of the utility services was seen as the key thrust of the
stabilization efforts. The reform program supported by the Bank's Consolidated
Structural Adjustment Credit (CSAC) was designed to address this need.
The Kyrgyz Government recognizing that it lacked the requisite capacity to undertake the
challenging reforms measures required under CSAC, requested the Bank for financing
Technical Assistance Credit (TAC) to support preparation of the enabling framework for
structural and institutional reforms agreed under the CSAC.
The Credit was highly aligned with the Country Assistance Strategy1 (CAS) for the
Kyrgyz Republic and supported main objectives of: (i) strengthening public finances by
improving revenue mobilization and promoting cost recovery in the energy sector; (ii)
achieving sustained economic growth by supporting private sector development and
participation in the energy sector; and (iii) improving governance by strengthening the
regulatory framework in the energy sector and business environment.


1
    CAS document number: 17641-KG. Date of latest CAS discussion: May 7, 1998.




                                                               1
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)
TAC aimed to help build and strengthen the country's institutional capacity to: (i)
improve the business environment; (ii) improve revenue mobilization; and (iii) support
energy sector reform.
Progress of the objectives was to be measured by the following Key Indicators:
   ·   Custom revenues increased
   ·   Surveys indicating increased satisfaction with reform measures
   ·   Facilitate privatization of electricity distribution companies, including complete
       sale of at least one distribution company

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification
The objectives were not revised during project implementation.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
The project supported the Government's efforts to support fiscal adjustments, improve
the business environment and strengthen financial conditions and operation of utility
companies in the energy sector. Specific primary beneficiaries are listed below:
    · The State Committee for Business Developments. Its capacity was strengthened
with the on-the-job trainings provided through the consultancy services. The staff of the
Committee was trained in strategy formulation and business inspections reviews. The
TAC has supported the Committee in drafting a number of key legislation amendments,
related to licensing, registration, and permits, which were later enacted.
    · The State Customs Inspectorate. Institutional, technical, and analytical capacity
of the Inspectorate's staff was strengthened through a number of activities, including on-
the-job training on long-term planning, development of operation manuals, tax-payers
manuals, and internal regulations that helped to set and clarify organizational and
reporting requirements and responsibilities. TAC also supported strengthening of
technical capacity of the agency through provision of much needed office and computer
equipment.
    · The State Energy Agency, State Property Fund and other sector entities, were
provided with the necessary consultancy support, training and equipment to do the
enabling work to reform the sector, e.g. unbundling of the sector, preparation of
regulations, bidding process for privatization of Companies, financial management
capacity, audits, Social compensation etc.

The secondary beneficiaries included private sector, electricity consumers and the
citizens who would benefit from improved fiscal and business environment.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The project consisted of four components as follows:
Component 1: Business Environment



                                            2
Provision of technical assistance and training to: (i) review and analyze the existing
business start-up regulations and licensing and inspection procedures; and (ii) prepare
and implement an action plan to improve these regulations and procedures.
Component 2: Revenue Mobilization
Provision of technical assistance, training and office equipment to strengthen the capacity
of, and coordination between, State Customs Inspectorate (SCI) and State Tax
Inspectorate (STI) to improve tax and customs duties collection.
Component 3: Energy Sector Reforms
This component would support the Government's efforts in energy sector reforms. It
consisted of the following sub-components:
(a) Assistance to State Energy Agency (SEA). Provision of technical assistance and office
equipment to assist SEA in preparation and implementation of market-oriented
regulations and procedures for the electricity sector.
(b) Assistance to State Property Fund (SPF). Provision of technical assistance and office
equipment to assist SPF with privatization of the Borrower's electricity distribution
companies and for Kyrgyzgas.
(c) Assistance to Kyrgyzgas. Provision of technical assistance and office equipment to
improve Kyrgyzgas' financial management capacity and its billing and payment
collection procedures.
(d) Assistance to Audit Kyrgyzgas and Kyrgyzgasmunaizat. Provision of technical
assistance for audit of Kyrgyzgas and of Kyrgyzgasmunaizat.
(e) Supporting Social Compensations Strategy for Energy Price Increases. Provision of
technical assistance and office equipment to assist the Borrower in design and
implementation of a social compensation system in connection with energy tariff
increases.
 (f) Purchase of Gas Meters, Parts, Materials and Equipment for the Installation of Gas
Meters. Provision of gas meters and provision of parts, materials and equipment for the
installation of gas meters and of an electronic correction and measuring system.
(g) Assistance in Public Relations Campaign. Provision of technical assistance and
equipment to design and implement a public relations campaign in relation to energy
privatization program and tariff increase strategy.
Component 4: Support for Project Management, other Technical Assistance and
Contingency
Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment to the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU), and financing of its incremental operating costs.

1.6 Revised Components
A new category for disbursements - "works" - was added in April 2003 to support the
Government request for installation of gas meters, not envisaged at appraisal.

1.7 Other significant changes



                                            3
There were no changes in the project's design, scope, and scale. However, there were
changes in the project's schedule, revision in components by creation of a new category
and implementation arrangements, as mentioned below:
Project Schedule: The closing date of the Project was extended three times: first it was
extended from July 31, 2004 to December 31, 2005; the second time to December 31,
2007, and, finally, to December 31, 2009. The details are given below:
The first extension was to align the closing date with that of the extended CSAC. At the
time of other two extensions, the CSAC was closed, and the first two components of the
TAC were also considered completed. The second extension was granted due to the fcat
that the implementation of the third component supporting energy sector reforms required
more time. The new Government, established in March 2005, placed high priority on
energy sector development and requested support from the international financial
community to re-start the reforms. The final extension was approved following
Government's request, which was accompanied by a clear plan and timetable describing
its intentions for use of the funds, seen as a clear commitment. Moreover, the National
Energy Program and the concomitant Energy Strategy were under preparation and it
would have been incorrect timing to stop the critically required support.
Revision of Component: In December 2002, the Bank received a request from the MOF
to reallocate SDR300,000 ($400,000 equivalent) from the "Consultants' Services and
Training" component of the TAC to a new category under "Works" in order to finance
contractors' services necessary for the installation of about 55,267 of 84,250 existing gas
meters, which were purchased out of KG's own sources. The World Bank agreed with
this request and took the necessary steps to amend the TAC's Development Credit
Agreement. The signed amendment was forwarded to the Government on January 15,
2003 for countersigning. The Government countersigned the amendment on April 24,
2003. The reallocation decision was timely and appropriate to ensure timely installation
of the existing gas meters.
Following the slow disbursement of the project funds, in July 2009, the Borrower
requested and the Bank agreed to cancel US$ 2.3 million of the Credit. The funds were
reallocated to support urgently needed rehabilitation of the key equipment at the Bishkek
Combined Heat and Power (CHP) Plant. Accordingly, this amount was cancelled and
recommitted to support the Additional Financing for the Energy Emergency Assistance
Project, per the Bank's approved revisions of the investment lending policy.
Implementation arrangements. During the project period, the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) was shifted three times. At the start of the project, the PIU was attached to the
Prime Minister's Office. Subsequently it was transferred to the State Property Fund,
which later became the Ministry of State Property. Finally, in November 2008, it was
shifted to the then newly established Ministry of Industry, Energy and Fuel Resources,
which became the Ministry of Energy in November 2009.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry




                                             4
Soundness of background analysis. As part of the project preparation, sector background
was studied, main sector issues were analyzed in depth, and Government strategies to
deal with these issues were also considered. Analyses of sector issues and Government
strategies were used as the basis for the project design. Though at project appraisal, risks
related to the Government's commitment to reform and Government's low capacities
were underestimated. There was not sufficient analysis of the poverty and social impacts
of the proposed energy sector reforms.
Lessons of earlier operations taken into account. Institutional capacity had been a major
constraint in the Kyrgyz Republic. Technical assistance and capacity building were
assessed to be critical elements of the Bank Group strategy for the country. The Kyrgyz
Republic's experience, and similar projects in other transitional economies, highlighted
the critical importance of ensuring: (i) sustainable political support and commitment at
the highest level for the difficult energy sector reforms and actions like tariff increases
and privatization of the energy utility companies; (ii) transparency, ownership and
participatory design from the early phases of the reform program to increase stakeholders
cooperation and confidence in the process; (iii) setting up realistic goals and hands-on
Bank supervision; and (iv) adequate balance with regards to the provision of hands on
training to the local officials involved in the project design and implementation, and
reliance on external consultants. These lessons, however, were not adequately applied
while designing the project.

Project design. The project design was excessively ambitious and aimed to address too
broad and complex range of issues, though very relevant and important, which included:
(i) improving the business environment; (ii) improving revenue mobilization; and (iii)
supporting energy sector reform. Within these broad areas, the project design did not
fully acknowledge the lack of enabling conditions and the barriers to achieve these
objectives. Instead, it focused on implementing too many small activities at one time,
without proper sequencing and/or effective instrument to address the overarching
barriers. In addition, the project indicators were too vague and ambitious that made
project monitoring very complicated. Considering the complexity of the required reforms
and lack of adequate institutional capacity, in hindsight it appears that the project should
have focused on a limited number of areas.
Risk Assessment. At appraisal, the overall risk of the project was rated as Moderate. The
preparation team had identified six potential risk areas with three of them rated
"Substantial" that should have led to a much higher than overall "Moderate" rating for
the project. The ICR team does not consider the mitigation measures sufficient for the
risk of weakening of political support and Government commitment to the reforms. In
addition, risks of strong opposition to the reforms from various affected parties were
underestimated. A rating of `Significant' risk would have been appropriate and a strategy
for mitigation could have been prepared or appropriate expectations set during the Project
design.
Adequacy of Government commitment. Government's commitment at the time of TAC
preparation appeared to be strong, as demonstrated by the fact that, in spite of a
politically charged year with Parliamentary elections in February 2000 and Presidential
elections scheduled to take place before December 2000, there was some visible



                                             5
consensus among key ministries and decision-makers about the nature of the issues to be
addressed by the CSAC, TAC and the necessary remedial actions.
2.2 Implementation
The following factors had affected project implementation:
(i)     Political instability. During project implementation, it appeared that the
Government was heavily constrained in its ability to initiate and implement the reform
agenda. Soon after TAC was approved in September 2000, there was a change in
Government in early 2001 and then again in May 2002. A political crisis in late 2004,
related to the Parliament elections in March 2005 led to another change. This contributed
to substantial delays in contracting project consultants and Government advisors and has
resulted in very slow implementation and slow disbursement for several consecutive
years.
(ii)    Frequent change of Government counterparts. In 2006 and early 2007, the
political instability continued with four Prime-Ministers changing during less than two
years, thus impeding the implementation of the agreed reforms. Further, these frequent
changes in Government resulted in many of the key persons committed to the program
leaving their positions, and the need to deal with new sets of persons, and also led to the
loss of institutional capacity, discontinuity and delays in project implementation.
(iii) High turnover of the Bank Task Team Leaders (TTLs). During the ten years of
the project, there were six TTLs. In fact, in the first seven years, there were five TTLs
that led to lack of continuity, and different approaches to the supervision of
implementation.
(iv)    CSAC implementation delays and asynchronous implementation of TAC.
Implementation of agreed reform measures under CSAC, that were supposed to be
supported by TAC, was highly problematic in part due to the politicization of the issues
and process; and in part due to lack of consensus within the Government. There was a
lack of consistency over time, and across the various layers of the Government, in terms
of the ownership of the reform program and commitment to its speedy implementation.
Thus the reforms, especially in the energy sector, proceeded in an uneven fashion, with
an occasional tendency to reverse the steps already taken. Further, the inability to give
SEA the freedom to decide on tariffs and the lack of political will to fight the problem of
nonpayment through disconnection were part of this problem. Given that CSAC was
closed without releasing the third and final tranche, the ICR team questions whether
related TAC should have continued.
(v)     There was a distinct lack of cohesion and consensus both between the
Parliament and the Government, and even within the Government, leading to enormous
delays in the enactment of laws needed for the reform. As an example, the two houses of
the parliament gave two different opinions on the Severelecto privatization program.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
M&E design. The project's Performance Indicators were        not appropriate and realistic.
The causal chain in the design of M&E was not clearly        formulated. Given the many
exogenous factors that would influence the process           of improving the business
environment and carrying out energy sector reform, the       indicators selected were too

                                            6
broad to measure the progress and achievements of the project aimed to support creation
of enabling framework for the desired changes. In addition, the target values of the
performance indicators were either not set (custom revenues), or were ambitious (sale of
energy companies).
M&E implementation The weakness in the M&E framework was not fully addressed
during project implementation and that undermined the Bank's ability to manage for
results. Some output data, especially for the "business environment" and "revenue
mobilization" component was not regularly collected. For example, surveys on business
environment reform were never conducted. The only information available regarding
satisfaction with the business environment was obtained from a 2003 USAID sponsored
survey. On the other hand, information on energy sector performance including losses,
tariffs, collections, was regularly collected and used in preparation of reports, but not
reported as part of the project progress through ISRs.
M&E utilization Data collected in the course of supervision, especially those related to
the energy sector performance, was evaluated and used by the Bank for its dialogue with
the Government. The data was used in monitoring energy sector performance and its
macroeconomic impact. The Government used the data collected to adjust its policies in
the energy sector (as an examples the Government setting up an escrow account to
monitor cash collections).

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards. N/A
Fiduciary. While there were no significant deviations or waivers from the Bank's
fiduciary policies and procedures during the implementation of the project, the FM
system was moderately unsatisfactory due to the deficiencies in internal control and
irregular submission of FMRs. The Bank's procurement guidelines and procedures were
satisfactorily followed during implementation.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

(a) Transition arrangements.
    · Institutional. The new Ministry of Energy (MOE) is in a good position to deal
with more focus on the energy sector. Many of its staff have been trained and have
acquired adequate technical and management capacity, adding to sustainability of the
Project outcomes. Currently it benefits from a generous technical assistance package
from USAID. Even though the energy regulator has lost its formal independence, it has
become a semi-autonomous department within the independently created Ministry of
Energy that carries out the functions of a regulator. Based on the discussions with the
officials of the MoE after the formation of the Interim Government, it is likely that
unbundled power sector will continue to function even after the project closure. The
renewed focus of new Interim Government on increasing transparency and accountability
should help in utilizing further the benefits of TAC for progress in the energy sector
reforms. Given its relevance to the macroeconomic performance and development of the
country, the energy sector would continue to remain in the donors' and Government
focus in future.

                                           7
    · Financial. From the fiscal point of view, the energy sector remains highly
unsustainable as cost-recovery tariff level has not yet been achieved and chronic sector
problems such as high technical and commercial losses and low collections have not been
fully resolved.
    · Policies. Although adequate basic policies are in place, they are yet to be
implemented, as there was a lack of political will at the higher levels of the Government
to implement them. The policies themselves would need to be tuned to reflect the
changing environment.
 (b) List of performance indicators. Three main indicators that reflect the performance of
the energy sector by which the Project can be monitored in the future are the following:
    ·        Financial health of the energy sector in terms of its ability to generate funds
             for much needed investments and significantly reducing burden on the budget.
    ·        Independent Regulatory environment with participation of stakeholders.
    ·        Systems to ensure transparency and accountability of the power sector
(c) Follow-on project. Given the high economic and social relevance of the energy sector,
it will be important for the Bank to remain engaged with the Government on the Kyrgyz
energy sector through follow up activities and investment program, which would need to
be highlighted in the upcoming CAS discussions. A close coordination with other donors,
most notably with USAID, Asian Development Bank (ADB), Eurasian Bank and
EBRD/EC would be required to leverage the successful outcomes of the Bank program.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The objective supported by the Project was consistent with the Bank's CAS. Though, the
stated PDO appears to be overly ambitious for a technical assistance credit handling such
complex issues, at project appraisal and even more so at the time of the review.
However, the relevance of the issues for the development of country remains still very
high with the current development priorities of Kyrgyz Republic.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives ­ Moderately Satisfactory
The results of the TAC were mixed. The objective assessment of project efficacy was
difficult due to weakness in the design of M&E system. Given the high relevance of these
challenging issues for the Kyrgyz economy and the progress of the TAC to help develop
enabling procedures and legislations for revenue mobilization; simplification of industry
licensing procedures; progress in energy sector unbundling, setting up of a regulator and
some improvement of the energy sector performance, the achievements of PDOs could
have been rated `Satisfactory'. However, the Interim Government rolled back the massive
tariff increase and suspended the privatization program and annulled the tender results, in
view of inadequately prepared and hastily implemented process. Considering the gaps in
privatization process and delays in the project implementation, overall achievement of the
PDOs appears to be modest; the project outcome has been rated moderately
satisfactory.
The details of the project's major outcomes and achievements are discussed by objectives
in the Annex 2.

                                             8
3.3 Efficiency

A formal economic analysis was not done at appraisal because the project financed only
technical assistance activities. However, investments in improving the business
environment helped simplify regulations relating to business start-up and reduced the
time and costs of licensing procedures. Support for energy reforms contributed to overall
sector efficiency enhancement.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The overall achievement of the development objectives is considered `Moderately
Satisfactory'. The relevance of the issues handled by the Project during preparation and
even in the current context remains very high. The contribution in setting up the most of
enabling framework for reforms in the enormously complex and challenging areas and
build local capacity to handle those issues is well recognized. However, given the long
delays in implementation of the supported measures and partial achievements of the
objectives, compared to the highly ambitious design, the project outcome rating is
assessed to be "Moderately Satisfactory".


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
N/A
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project resulted in a substantial institutional development impact as demonstrated by
the following (for details, see Annex 2):
    · Institutional structure of energy sector has dramatically changed with the
        unbundling of the vertically integrated monopoly "Kyrgyz Energo Holding" into a
        number of energy companies
    · A new regulatory institutional framework has been created with the Government
        with a regulator legally separated from, although within the current Ministry of
        Energy
    · Ministry of Energy staff members have been trained which, in turn, has
        contributed to institutional strengthening
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
Positive
The creation of a full-fledged Ministry of Energy not intended at the time of project
preparation. The Ministry is currently overseeing the energy sector and assuming the
functions of an independent regulator through its semi-autonomous regulation
department. The positive development is that the notion of the regulator is accepted in the
country, and the Government is pursuing that direction, albeit not fully in accordance
with the recommendations of the project and the Bank.



                                            9
Negative
One unintended negative impact was that the unbundling of the energy sector has led to
deteriorated manageability of the sector. This is believed to be because, instead of one
entity, seven entities have been created and as the Government does not have adequate
staff strength and institutional capacity to manage all of them, the physical situation has
deteriorated.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

In view of the continued political instability and social unrest it imposes significant risks
to the sustainability of the development outcome. From the financial perspective, there is
a risk of the electricity sector continue to be in a deteriorated financial situation, with the
current tariff rates remaining below the cost recovery level and commercial performance
remaining below industry standards. The risks to development outcomes are assessed to
be Significant.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry - Moderately Unsatisfactory

Project preparation was carried with adequate resources that provided the technical skills
mix necessary to address sector concerns. The project was consistent with the CAS and
Government priorities in the energy sector at the time. The Bank had a consistently good
working relationship with the Borrower during preparation and appraisal. To this extent,
the Bank performance was satisfactory.
However, on the other hand, the project design was fraught with some major drawbacks.
For example, given the risk of political instability and low institutional capacity, the
project design was overly ambitious and aimed to address a broad and complex range of
issues. Measures to mitigate the risks and lessons from earlier operations were not
adequately incorporated. In addition, the performance indicators were not appropriate and
realistic and a proper M&E framework was not designed during the project preparation.

(b) Quality of Supervision - Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was moderately
satisfactory. The Bank focused on the project's development impact and allocated
sufficient budget and staff resources. With numerous missions2, the Bank kept engaged
with the Government in the energy policy dialogue and spent considerable time in
working closely with the newly created entities including SEA and the Government
(MLSP, MOF, Office of the PM) to review or formulate acceptable proposals, legislative
initiatives and to follow up on progress. In 2003, the Bank supported the initiative of a
special representative of the President with extraordinary powers to oversee the collection
improvement program in the new distribution companies and helped the Government to
conceptualize and formulate the proposal in an acceptable manner and also provided

2
    These include energy missions which went for a range of other activities.


                                                                    10
operational guidance for this purpose. The Bank team helped to organize a number of
seminars, workshops, and study tours. The Bank's procurement and financial
management proficient staff worked with the PIU staff to explain the rules and
procedures to be applied during project implementation. The task team adapted to the
changing situations in the country and was also willing to revise the implementation
arrangements. Transition arrangements were considered adequate with continuing
support of international advisors funded under USAID project and continuation of the
several of the trained staff.

However, The Bank team did not make efforts to restructure the project despite the fact
that: (a) the Project objectives were overambitious; and (b) corresponding adjustment
operation (CSAC) was closed earlier without releasing the last tranche. No midterm
review was conducted for the Project and no appropriate M&E system was established
during Supervision. In view of this, the quality of supervision is rated as `Moderately
Satisfactory'.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance - Moderately Unsatisfactory
The Government had shown its commitment to the objectives of the project at the time of
project preparation. During the project implementation the Government made a number
of efforts to accelerate implementation including set up of a high level committee (called
CSAC Coordination Council) in 2002-2005 with representation from the Office of the
President, Prime Minister, Ministry of Finance, SEA and SPF and headed by a Deputy
Prime Minister, to coordinate Government responses and oversee progress. Towards the
end of 2003, the President and the National Security Council took a keen interest in
trying to improve collections in the power sector on an emergency basis and appointed a
Special Representative of the President for this purpose. To the above extent the
Government performance was satisfactory.
On the other hand, the commitment of the Government to the reform program varied over
time and across the layers of the Government. The Government never managed to keep
the deadlines and implement the agreed reform measures on time. Further, the
parliament and the Government had different approaches creating major delays. It could
not muster the political will to raise tariffs to reach the levels agreed with the Bank to
move towards cost recovery. Nor did it have the willingness to sustain the campaign to
fight the theft of power and improve collections. The Government could not ensure
effective independence from political interference in the utility decisions on
disconnection of non-payers. Finally, the Bank's recommendation on privatization
process that resulted in privatization process being inadequately and not-transparently
prepared and hastily implemented. The Interim Government has suspended the
privatization program and annulled the tender results, but has emphasized focus on other
important areas, like transparency, governance and accountability in the sector.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance - Moderately Unsatisfactory
As mentioned earlier, the PIU was shifted three times during the implementation period.
The Project Director was also changed three times during this period.




                                           11
Financial Management. The financial management system run by the PIU had internal
control deficiencies and FMRs were submitted irregularly.
Procurement Arrangements. Procurement of all works, goods and technical services
under the project followed the Procurement Guidelines "Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits".
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance - Moderately
Unsatisfactory
In light of the Government and PIU performance as discussed above, the overall
performance of the Borrower was moderately unsatisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

Generic:
1. Continuity of the team working on the project, especially the TTL, is very important
   both for the Bank and the Borrower to ensure continuity and different approaches to
   supervision.
2. Simple and realistic project design, especially in a country with limited institutional
   capacity and political instability.
3. Appropriate and realistic M&E framework should be developed during project
   preparation.
Project Specific:
1. The Bank should have decided not to grant extensions after the closure of CSAC as it
   is difficult to support complex reforms on a pure TA project.
2. To have the baseline data available right from the beginning of the project, so that the
   achievements of the project can be properly monitored.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Despite the fact that many actions were implemented, implementation of some of the
important measures, such as KyrgyzEnergo unbundling and privatization of power
distribution companies, was not transparent and with no involvement of civil and expert
society. Analysis of consequences was not done properly.



(b) Cofinanciers
N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

N/A



                                            12
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a)      Project Cost by Component (in US$ 000 equivalent)

(Total rows and percentage column will be calculated by the system)

                               Appraisal          Actual /Latest        Percentage of
        Components             Estimate             Estimate             Appraisal
                             (US$ million)        (US$ million)
Support for Improving            0.119                0.063                 52.9
Business Environment
Support for Improving            0.331                0.141                 42.6
Revenue Mobilization
Support for Reform of            3.928                2.393                 60.9
the Energy Sector
Support for Project              0.622                0.479                 77.0
Management, other
Technical Assistance
and Contingency
       Total Baseline Cost       5.000                3.076                 61.5

(b)      Co-financing

(The appraisal estimate will be pre-populated from the Financing data in SAP/AUS;
Percentage of Appraisal column will be calculated by the system)


                                     Appraisal          Actual/Latest
      Source of       Type of                                               Percentage
                                      Estimate            Estimate
       Funds         Financing                                             of Appraisal
                                     (US$ 000)           (US$ 000)
Kyrgyz                                  500                  143             28.6
Government
IDA                                      5,000                2,933          58.7




                                             13
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: (B). Support for Improving Business Environment ­ Moderately
Unsatisfactory
1. Reports for improving start-up procedures and business inspections in Kyrgyz
   Republic were prepared
2. Action plan to improve the regulations were prepared and adopted by the Agency
3. Registration procedures were simplified that resulted in decrease of business start-up
   cost from 20 percent to 12.9 percent
4. Amendments to about 50 laws containing licensing provisions were developed and 35
   laws were amended by the Parliament
5. Resolution to avoid duplication of inspections were developed and adopted by the
   Government that contained a list of all the agencies with the right to inspect and
   specifying duration and the frequency of inspections
Consultancy support was provided in strategy formulation, assessment of business start-
up regulations and licensing and inspection procedures. While the action plan to improve
the regulations and procedures was developed, it was not fully implemented. A planned
initial diagnostic analysis and survey, succeeded by further follow-up surveys, to identify
constraints that impede private sector activities was never carried out. Instead, findings
of a parallel USAID-funded survey were used to assess impact of the implemented
measures.

Specifically, according to the USAID survey of 20033:
   (i) Registration procedures were reportedly simplified and accelerated and during
        1997-2002 the cost of business start-up had dropped from 20% to 12.9% of the
        per capita GDP in 1997. However, actual costs in time and money for registration
        are shown to exceed the legal limits, as officials allegedly continue to demand
        side payments for services rendered.
   (ii) The Law on Licensing was amended in January 2001 reducing the activities to be
        licensed from 64 to 29 and all sub-licensing was abolished. However the number
        of activities to be licensed has gone up to 32 since then. However, the average
        number of days it takes to get a license had actually increased from 10 to 21
        during 1999-2002. The complexity and the non-transparency of the licensing
        process remained a major problem.
   (iii)Government's decisions to avoid duplication of inspections, adoption of standard
        procedures and forms for all inspections and despite the issue of a subsequent
        Government resolution listing the agencies with the right to inspect, the duration
        and frequency of inspections continues to be a problem.
   (iv) Despite improvement of the macroeconomic environment, the number of new
        business start-ups remained stagnant and even showed a decline. The total number


3
  Data of 2003 is used due to the fact that two components of the TAC, namely Business Environment Improvement and Revenue
Mobilization Improvement, were considered completed by the original Closing Date of July 31, 2004. The Project was then extended
to implement the remaining activities of the third component, support for energy reform, only.


                                                              14
          of active small and medium businesses actually went down from 9000 in 1999 to
          7,800 in 2002.

Component 2: Support for Improving Revenue Mobilization ­Satisfactory4
          ·     Technical capacity of SCI was increased with supply of needed office and
                computer equipment
          ·     Legislative and normative measures for coordination of activities of customs
                and tax authorities were developed
          ·     Action plan for reforms and modernization of the KR customs service for the
                period 2000-2003 was developed with a list of measures to be taken
          ·     Amendments to the Law on FEZ were prepared and were adopted by the
                Parliament
          ·     Provisions were developed and adopted in the Budget Code to enable VAT
                rebates for exporters
          ·     Tax payer manuals were developed, published, and distributed
          ·     Internal regulations for the consolidated Revenues Committee were developed
                and adopted

The progress on indicator for this component was more than a quadruple increase of
customs revenues from KGS 306.6 in 2000 to KGS 1,664 in 2005 through strengthened
regulation. Reportedly some abuse of tax privileges by producers continues to be an
issue. It may not be correct to fully attribute such an increase to TA only, as clearly,
other factors have contributed too.
The project has provided consultancy support and office and computer equipment to
strengthen analytical and technical capacity of the Inspectorate. Consultancy services
have been provided on: ( ) coordination of activities of customs and tax authorities and
(b) development and implementation of activities to implement the Action plan for
reforms and modernization of the KR customs service for the period 2000-2003.
The Project supported the adoption of following measures to increase custom revenue:
   (i) The envisaged amendments to the Law on Free Economic Zones (FEZ) were
        passed and the regulations were revised to discourage the abuse of tax privileges
        by producers in FEZ.
   (ii) VAT rebate procedures were simplified, and regulations were adopted to prevent
        abuse and budget provisions made for VAT rebates to exporters.
   (iii)VAT was moved to a destination basis with respect to all Commonwealth of
        Independent States (CIS) countries5, and this measure augmented VAT revenues
        by over $10 mln.
   (iv) New tax payer manuals were issued for several taxes.




4
  Data of 2003 is used due to the fact that two components of the TAC, namely Business Environment Improvement and Revenue
Mobilization Improvement, were considered completed by the original Closing Date of July 31, 2004. The Project was then extended
to implement the remaining activities of the third component, support for energy reform, only.
5
  This was done by amendment of the Law in respect to Azerbaijan and Turkmenistan and by bilateral agreements with Russia. See
Aide Memoire of the Bank mission (23 Nov-11 Dec 2000)


                                                              15
There have been reports of some gaps in the implementation of these measures, such as
the leakage of products from FEZs into the domestic market and the delays and payment
failures for VAT rebates on export products.

Component 3: Support for Reform of the Energy Sector ­Moderately Unsatisfactory
The outcomes of this important component is rated "Moderately Satisfactory" given that
a number of measures were implemented and steps were taken that led to some
improvements in operational and financial performance of energy utility companies.
Progress was made in passing the privatization legislation and adopting the energy
development strategies, which aims at continuing the reform of the energy sector. Some
level of private sector participation in the power sector was achieved. While TAC
supported initial efforts to enable private sector participation, later in the project
implementation the Government decided not to use legal and financial advisory services,
despite the recommendations from the Bank. It resulted in the privatization process being
inadequately prepared and hastily implemented.

( )Assistance to the State Agency for Energy
        ·    SEA internal regulations were developed
        ·    SEA Action Plan was developed and adopted by the SEA
        ·    New rules and procedures of operation for segregated / unbundled energy sector
             were developed and adopted by SEA
        ·    Tariff setting rules, principles, and financial projections, resulting in several
             MTTPs, were developed and adopted by the SEA
        ·    Amendments to the Law on Natural and Authorized Monopolies were developed
             and approved by the Parliament
        ·    TAC supported development of National Energy Program (Strategy) that was
             further adopted by the Government and approved by the Parliament

Strengthening the SEA's regulatory capacity during preparation and implementation of
the energy sector restructuring and privatization program was an important area for
TAC's focus. TAC financed advisory services supporting design and implementation of
rules and procedures for the unbundled electricity sector's operations and revision of the
Mid-Term Tariff Policies (MTTP). The consultants assisted the SEA to develop financial
projection for the first Medium-Term Tariff Policy for 2003-2005.
The 1996 Energy Law and 1997 Electricity Law led to the creation of a SEA to carry out
the economic regulation of the power, gas and heat supply subsectors leaving the policy
formulation in the hands of the Department of Energy and Mineral Resources under the
Prime Minister. However, the Government despite its intents was not able to ensure
required level of administrative and financial independence of SEA. During the last five
years, the status of SEA changed two times and is currently a department under the MOE.
Tariff Policies. There were initial power tariff increases made in 2000-02 following the
first MTTP approved in April 2000 and resulting in the tariff increases during 1999-2002
period by 140% in local currency terms and 92% in US dollar terms.6 At the suggestion

6
    See the Bank paper of June 2003 to the VP for extending the closing date of the CSAC up to 31.12.2004.


                                                                  16
of the Bank, SEA produced a revised MTTP, which was approved in May 2003 that
recognized the need for the tariff levels to approach the long run marginal cost and also
the need to unbundle the tariff to align with the unbundling of the sector. However, due to
the political instability and elections, the electricity tariffs were not revised since March
2002, resulting in the continued unsatisfactory financial condition of the sector. Some
steps were taken (i.e. unification of tariff for household) followed by a new MTTP for
2008-2012. It was further revised in November 2009 with the sharp first tariff adjustment
in January 2010. This steep increase came after virtually no tariff increase in the previous
two years, violating the stated energy policy of the Government. A second round of tariff
increases was foreseen for July 2010, pending an evaluation of the effects of the first
round in the first quarter 2010. At the time of ICR preparation, the tariffs were
significantly rolled back for the categories with dominant consumption due to the public
opposition in April 2010.
National Energy Program, the country's energy sector development strategy for 2008-
2025, was adopted by the Government in February 2008 and subsequently approved by
Parliament on April 24, 2008.

(b) Support to the KR State committee for state property management.
   ·   Series of round tables and seminars and workshops on restructuring and
       privatization of the energy sector were organized
   ·   Study tour to Denmark, Hungary and Estonia was organized with about 21 people
       (managers of power enterprises and the Parliament) attending
   ·   Concession tender package for Severelectro distribution company was developed
       and submitted to the Government
   ·   TAC Supported development of the charters of the energy companies after the
       sector unbundling
Preparation of concessions packages to promote private sector participation in the
electricity distribution companies and the KG. Initially, the TAC financed the services of
a legal and financial advisor to assist the Government in preparing a concession tender
package for the Severelectro distribution company; however, those documents have never
been used. The TAC supported unbundling of a vertically integrated holding company
"KyrgyzEnergo" into a number of energy companies including one generation, one
transmission and four distribution companies.
With a more stable political environment since late Spring 2007, the Government
managed to get the parliament to pass crucial legislation (resolutions and amendments),
which allowed private sector participation in: (a) selected existing energy companies,
namely power distribution companies; Bishkek Combined Heat-and-Power Plant; and
Bishkek District Heating Company; and (b) the development of Kambarata 1 and 2 hydro
plants (and other new generation facilities). It resulted in sale of 80.49% of shares of the
two largest power distribution companies: "Severelectro" for about US$3 mln and
"Vostokelectro" for about US$1.2 mln. It is learnt that the Government did not follow
the advice and documentation formulated with the help of project consultants.
Energy Sector Study Tours. The Bishkek round table; study tours in Hungary, Estonia
and Denmark; and the two-day seminar in Issyk-Kul, financed under TAC. The study
tours specifically provided a good opportunity for the Parliamentarians and the

                                             17
Government officials to exchange views and assess energy sector reforms in other
countries and were useful in exposure and improving the level of debate on the energy
sector restructuring and private sector participation.
(c) Audit of JSC "Kyrgyzgas" and SJSC "Kyrgyzgasmunaizat".
   ·   Audit of JSC "Kyrgyzgas" for 1999, 2000, 2001 fiscal years, and SJSC
       "Kyrgyzgasmunaizat" for 1998 and 1999 fiscal years were completed.
Improving financial condition of the KG. TAC financed advisors to support the KG's
reform program in gas metering, assessing consumption norms, improving reporting
systems, and reviewing various forms of concessions. It also financed the 2001 audit of
the KG and conversion of its accounting system to the International Accounting
Standards (IAS). TAC also helped KG for procuring and installing 6000 gas meters to
improve its metering capabilities and consequently financial condition.
Both companies' financial statements of 1998 to 2000 were audited according to IAS and
qualified audit opinions were issued. A number of measures to improve the accounting
practices and strengthen internal audit procedures were proposed.
(d) Assistance to social compensation strategy.

   ·   Social compensation strategy was developed and approved by the Ministry of
       Labor and Social Protection
   ·   A beneficiary assessment to evaluate implementation and effectiveness of the
       unified monthly benefits was developed and presented to the Government
   ·   A training seminar on social protection system was provided in Almaty,
       Kazakhstan for three specialists of the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection.
Improving Social Protection. The pricing reform is one of the key measures of the
electricity market reform. A cost-reflective pricing mechanism is considered essential for
encouraging more efficient consumption, improving private investment, and
strengthening the financial position of the electric utilities. However, a significant tariff
increase clearly carries the risk of increasing economic stress, particularly for low-income
households. TAC financed a number of activities to support the development of social
protection strategy; organizing study tour for a small group of specialists from the
Ministry of Labor & Social Protection (MOLSP) to review Kazakhstan's social protection
systems.
(d) PR campaign.
Public Relations Campaign. An important feature of the TAC's support of the CSAC
program was the design and implementation of an appropriate public relations campaign
to make the public aware of the need for, and the long-term benefits of, the private sector
participation in the energy sector and the tariff increases. The public relation firm,
financed under TAC, continued the initial three phases of the program, including using
mass media and organizing seminars and workshops to explain to the public the need for
and the benefits of the Government energy reform program.

(e) Materials and accessories for gas meters.



                                             18
   ·   materials and accessories for installation of gas meters were procured and
       delivered
   ·   oxygen, carbide, various goods (pipes, welding wire, electrodes, clamps, and
       bridges) were procured and delivered to the client
(f) domestic gas meters and border gas meters.
   ·   6,000 domestic gas meters were delivered and supplied to JSC "Kyrgyzgas"
(i) procurement of "urgent" equipment for the consultants of beneficiary-agencies.
   ·   22 computers and 18 printers were delivered

Component 4: Support for Project Management, other Technical Assistance and
Contingency
   ·   The component financed training of officers, procurement of office equipment,
       PIU operating costs, other technical assistance and contingencies.




                                           19
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

N/A




                                      20
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                  Responsibility/
          Names                         Title              Unit
                                                                    Specialty
Lending
M.R.Ghasimi                Team Leader
Loup Brefort               Expert on Privatization
R. Anand                   Program Team Leader
N. Haazen                  Financial Management Expert
G.Singh                    Procurement Specialist
N. Soubbotin               Counsel
H. Koilpillai              Disbursement Officer
J.Smith                    Program Assistant
A. Abdymomunov             Resident Mission Economist
P.Ballard                  Peer Reviewer
V.Atur                     Peer Reviewer


Supervision/ICR
Mirlan Aldayarov           Sr. Urban Specialist          ECSSD
Marat Iskakov              Consultant                    ECSSD
Sunil Kumar Khosla         Sr. Energy Spec.              ECSS2
Christopher L. Rytel       Consultant                    SASDE
Raghuveer Y. Sharma        Lead Financial Analyst        SASDE
Natalia Charkova           Operations Officer            ECSSD
Yukari Tsuchiya            Program Assistant             ECSSD

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                        USD Thousands
                                    No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                              consultant costs)
Lending
  FY00                                      18                      60.78
  FY01                                       1                       3.63
  FY02                                                               0.71
  FY03                                                              -0.05

                          Total:            19                      65.07
Supervision/ICR
  FY00                                        1                      1.54


                                         21
FY01              30    87.92
FY02              21    77.63
FY03              29   126.83
FY04              16   103.10
FY05               9    45.13
FY06              19    90.73
FY07               4    43.66
FY08               2    45.44
FY09               7    52.38
FY10               7    38.97

       Total:    131   621.98




                22
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

N/A



Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N/A




                                      23
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


  Donor:                                  World Bank
  Credit amount:                          5.0 million USD
                                          0.75% a year for 40 year, 10 years of grace
  Financial conditions:                   period
  Date of conclusion:                     June 23rd 2000
  Date of effectiveness:                  September 21st 2000
  Closing date:                           December 31st 2009
                                          KR State committee for state property
                                          management,
  Executive agency:                       Ministry of industry, energy and fuel resources

       Project objectives:
       The project "Technical assistance credit" is aimed to provide support to
implementation of the reforms under the structural transformation Program (CSAC) by
strengthening institutional capacity of the republic for:
1) improvement of business environment;
2) improvement of administrative incomes;
3) support to energy reforms.

    Project components:
1. Component "Improvement of business environment" - 119.080,00 US$ or 2.2%
    of the total project cost.
· The beneficiary agent of this component is the KR State commission for business
    development under the KR Government.
Completed: competitive selection and recruitment of an international consultant on
improvement of business environment and reduction of ungrounded inspections. The
international consultant started his assignment on April the 18th 2001 providing his
services during 4 months. The beneficiary of this assistance was the KR State
commission for business development under the KR Government. After completion of
his assignment the consultant submitted the final report approved by the World Bank.

2. Component "Improvement of administrative incomes" - 330.800,00 US$ or 6.0%
    of the total project cost.
        Local consultants have been providing consulting services on specific issues in
the following areas:
 ) coordination of activities of customs and tax authorities;
b) development and implementation of activities to implement the Action plan for
reforms and modernization of the KR customs service for the period 2000-2003.
Besides, tender for procurement of computer equipment for the State tax inspection was
completed under this component. The total contract cost was 85,963 US$ (against the


                                          24
original budget for this procurement of 100,000 US$). The computer equipment was
delivered and installed in November 2001.
Because of the savings under the component, another tender was completed on April the
5th 2002 to procure additional office equipment (printers, copiers). The contract cost is
10.995,00 US$. The equipment was delivered in July 2002.
3. Component "Support to energy reforms" - 3.927.670,00 US$ or 71.4% of the total
project cost.
 ( ) assistance to the State Agency for Energy
This sub-component is aimed at strengthening both institutional and technical capacity of
the State energy agency (SEA) to develop market rules regulating operation of energy
sector segregated from gas sector and to supervise the implementation of these rules by
stakeholders of energy sector through providing long-term consultancies by local and
international consultants on specific issues related to both to gas and power energy
sectors.
Under this component an international consultant was recruited to review documents of
the power energy sector. The consultant was recruited for two weeks in February 2002.
After the completion of his assignment the consultant submitted the final report which
was approved both by the World Bank and the KR Government.
Three local consultants were selected under the component for 24 months each and one
international power energy consultant recruited for 13 months; the consultant completed
his assignment in April 2002. The consultants were providing their services for SEA in
development of rules and procedures of operation for segregated energy sector and in
setting specific tariffs. Currently one local economist is working under the component. In
2006 at the request made by the Prime-minister office this economist was transferred to
the Department and mining industry under the Prime-minister. The contract with the
consultant was extended till November 2008.

(b) support to the KR State committee for state property management.
Consultants were recruited under the component to provide their services for the State
property committee for privatization of the JSC "Kyrgyzgas" and power distribution
companies. The round table on "Progress of restructuring and privatization of JSC
"Kyrgyzenergo" was held on November the 9th 2001. 21 people (managers of power
enterprises and Jogorku Kenesh) had training in Denmark, Hungary and Estonia from
January the 15th to the 25th 2002. In summer 2002 the project organized a seminar in
Issyk-Kul on reform issues involving members of parliament, representatives of power
distribution companies and various ministries. Because of the savings made after the
tenders for computer and office equipment, and new requirements of the State property
committee it was decided and approved by the World Bank to procure additional
computer and office equipment for the total amount of 11,700 US$. The delivery was
completed in July 2003.

 (c) assistance to JSC "Kyrgyzgas".
An international consultant on financial restructuring of JSC "Kyrgyzgas" was selected
under the component who started his assignment from July the 19th 2001 (the contract
was completed in May 2002). Three local consultants were also selected for 12 months

                                           25
each, and later JSC "Kyrgyzgas" rejected their services by the resolution of the Board of
Directors.

(d) audit of JSC "Kyrgyzgas" and SJSC "Kyrgyzgasmunaizat".
Under this sub-component it was planned to have auditing of JSC "Kyrgyzgas" for 1999
and 2000 fiscal years, and SJSC "Kyrgyzgasmunaizat" for 1998 and 1999 fiscal years.

The service contract was signed on April the 24th 2001. The audit was completed in
November 2001. Due to the requirement to audit JSC "Kyrgyzgas" for 2001 fiscal year it
was agreed with the World Bank to extend the contract with the audit firm. On August
the 13th 2002 the contract for the total cost of 65,000 US$ was signed with the above firm
to audit 2001 fiscal year for JSC "Kyrgyzgas" and SJSC "Kyrgyzgasmunaizat". The
assignment was completed in April 2003. Another contract for 50,000 US$ was signed
with the same firm to adapt international accounting standards for accounts of JSC
"Kyrgyzgas". The firm prepared a new chart of accounts, new accounting policy and
transformation tables which were approved by the management of JSC "Kyrgyzgas" and
the World Bank. JSC "Kyrgyzgas" requested the PIU to finance the procurement of
additional computer equipment required for the regional gas departments to produce
computerized financial statements. The request was approved by the World Bank based
on the available budget for procurement of computer equipment for JSC "Kyrgyzgas".
The computer equipment for the total 2,054 US$ was delivered in August 2002.

 (e) assistance to social compensation strategy.
Under the sub-component one international consultant was selected for 3 months and two
local consultants for 6 months each. The total contract cost was 28,518 US$. The
assignment has been completed. The final report was submitted and approved by the
Ministry of Labor and Social Protection and the World Bank. Under the sub-component a
training seminar on the social protection system in Kazakhstan was provided in Almaty
city for three specialists of the Ministry of labor and social protection.

(f) PR campaign.
According to the procurement procedures of the World Bank, a PR firm started its
assignment in July 2001 (the contract period was 30 months). The firm completed its
assignment in 2005 and submitted the financial report on the work done, which was
approved by the World Bank.

(g) materials and accessories for gas meters.
On May the 22nd 2001 the contracts were signed to deliver materials and accessories for
installation of gas meters. The delivery of 6,246 m3 of oxygen was fully completed. Out
of the total 147,569.5 kg of carbide 119,950 kg was delivered. Due to the delivery
disrupted by the supplier the signed contract between the supplier and the Technical
Assistance Credit (TAC) PIU was terminated.
The delivery of pipes (227,030 running meters), welding wire (11,351.5 kg) electrodes
No.1- 2,837.9 kg, electrodes No.2 ­ 2,837.9 kg, clamps ­ 113,515 units, bridges ­
113,515 units, taps ­ 227,030 units, dowels ­ 113,515 units was fully completed.




                                           26
The delivery of additional 33,700 m3 of oxygen required for installation of gas meters
was approved by the World Bank. The supplier delivered 6,150 m3. The remainder of the
delivery was cancelled as installation of gas meters was suspended.
(h) domestic gas meters and border gas meters.
Tender was announced under the project for installation of gas meters to general
population. As a result of the tender two bids were submitted on May 20th 2003. The bid
evaluation indicated that both technical and financial capacity of the bidders did not
comply with the requirements of bidding documents. Therefore the tender was announced
again and as a result the PIU signed the contract for installation of 18,423 gas meters. The
contract works were started on December the 15th 2003. The contractor was installing gas
meters ahead of the schedule and fully completed its assignment under this lot.
Under the component it was planned to procure metering equipment for the south of the
republic and 6,000 domestic gas meters. Draft tender documents for procurement of
domestic gas meters were prepared and agreed with JSC "Kyrgyzgas".
As a result of the tender for procurement of domestic gas meters the contract of the total
186,000 US$ was signed on August the 29th 2007. The first 18,600 US$ or 10% of the
contract was disbursed and the letter of credit for 130,200 US$ was produced. 6,000
domestic gas meters were delivered and supplied to JSC "Kyrgyzgas" under the contract
on January the 18th. After the completion of technical tests on July 9th 2008 the bill of
acceptance and transfer of the domestic gas meters was signed. The final disbursement of
27,236 US$ under the contract was made, i.e. the PIU imposed penalties of 9,964 US$
according to the contract conditions. The contract was fully completed on July the 30th
2008.
(i) procurement of "urgent" equipment for the consultants of beneficiary-agencies.
A tender was conducted in March 2001 to deliver computer equipment for the consultants
of TAC beneficiary-agencies defined as "urgent". 22 computers and 18 printers were
procured for the total 30,055 US$. The delivery of the equipment was completed in April
2001, both the computers and the printers were transferred to the project beneficiary-
agencies.
(j) computer equipment for the project beneficiary-agencies.
A tender for procurement of computer equipment under the international competitive
bidding procedures was conducted on July the 23rd 2001The equipment was delivered in
January 2002.


   4. Component "Capacity strengthening and support to the project
       management, other technical assistance and contingencies - 1.122,450.00 US$
       or 20% of the total project cost.
The component is aimed at training of officers, procurement of office equipment, PIU
operating costs, other technical assistance and contingencies.
A tender for selection of an audit company was conducted under the component and the
budget item "Other technical assistance" (audit of billing and payment collection in JSC
"Kyrgyzenergo"). The final report on the assignment after being agreed with power



                                            27
distribution companies was submitted to the World Bank in October 2003 and approved
in January 2004.
       Financial audit in six power distribution companies.
The audit of financial statements in power distribution companies was conducted. The
contract was signed on August the 13th 2002. After draft audit reports were agreed with
the State property committee and the power distribution companies themselves the
auditor issued final audit reports which were reviewed and approved by the World Bank.
        Development of the investment program for energy sector.
The PIU received no objection from the World Bank to conduct tender for development
of the investment plan of energy companies. Under the tender by the bid submission
deadline only one bid was submitted. However the bid price was much higher than that of
the allocated budget.
      Selection of the legal and financial advisors to prepare the concession of JSC
"Severelektro".
The World Bank presented draft Terms of reference for the concession of JSC
"Severelektro". Due to the KR Jogorku Kenesh disapproval of the concession of JSC
"Severelektro" the evaluation of technical bids was suspended.
Under the sub-component a part of expenses was financed for equipping the established
Secretariat of Special Representative of the KR President on power energy security.
Under the first delivery one computer and a printer were provided, and as a result of the
tender conducted based on the National Shopping method a supplier was selected to
deliver computer and office equipment for the total 6,024 US$. As a result of another
tender for additional equipment, office furniture was delivered for the total 424,825 som
and computer equipment for the total 7,901 US$ delivered by another company.
After the World Bank made a decision to extend the project from December the 18th
2007, an Action Plan was developed and according to the Action Plan it was suggested to
evaluate assets and business, as well as to conduct audits in accordance with international
standards in JSC "Severelektro", JSC "Bishkekteploset" and Bishkek Power Heating
Station.
Selection of the financial advisor to assess the assets and audits in accordance with
international standards for the above power energy companies was to be provisionally
completed in the first half of 2008, and the completion of the assessment and audits was
expected in the second half of 2009. But in 2008 the State Investment Committee
assessed the above companies without using credit funds, and after the assessment the
SIC announced the tender for privatization of the companies. Therefore the credit funds
allocated for the assessment and audits were never used.

       The Ministry of energy of the Kyrgyz Republic.
According to the Directive of the KR President RPNo.248 of October the 14th 2008, it
was decided to change the executive agency for the implementation of the project
"Technical Assistance Credit". The new executing agency developed an Action plan for
the further use of the TAC funds. The Action plan included the following activities:



                                            28
      1. Procurement of recording systems and components to be installed at substation
         35/6/10,       6/10 kW to make the balance of power energy for each feeder and
            .
      2. Development of the methodology of tariff setting for power and heat energy and
         natural gas.
      3. Development of a feasibility study of the reconstruction of Bishkek power
         heating station.
      4. Strengthening of material and technical basis of the Ministry of industry and
         energy and the State property committee.
According to the Action plan the Procurement plan was developed for 2009 where the
World Bank approved all components except: "Procurement of recording systems and
components to be installed at substation 35/6/10,       6/10 kW to make the balance of
power energy for each feeder and       " and "Development of a feasibility study of the
reconstruction of Bishkek power heating station" where the contract periods were
estimated up to the end of 2010. Taking into account that the closing date is December
the 31st 2009, which was not sufficient to complete planned activities in accordance with
the WB procurement procedures, the KR Ministry of energy sent its proposal to the KR
MoF and the World Bank to extend the closing date for the project "Technical Assistance
Credit" up to December the 31st 2010.
During the World Bank mission that visited Bishkek on June the 21-24th 2009 with the
aim to have an open dialogue related to energy sector and to identify the mid-term
strategy of involvement in implementation of energy projects, the issues were discussed
in terms of the current involvement of the World Bank in the development of KR energy
sector by implementing the project "Technical Assistance Credit". Taking into account
that this project has been extended for several times the Bank did not see any justification
for another extension of the closing date, therefore it was suggested that the unspent
credit funds should be used to finance activities related to the situation analysis in energy
sector, including solution of the problem with the deficit of power energy in winter time.
The KR Ministry of energy agreed with the WB opinion and in June of the current year it
made amendments in the Action plan in terms of use of the funds allocated for the project
"Technical Assistance Credit". According to the updated Action plan the major part of
the TAC project funds was channeled for the abovementioned purposes. Funds are
required to procure material and equipment for Bishkek power heating station to pass the
autumn-winter period of 2009-2010. The budget of the component is 2,330.0 US$.
The following components were excluded from the Action plan: "Procurement of
recording systems and components to be installed at substation 35/6/10,       6/10 kW to
make the balance of power energy for each feeder and          " with the total budget of
1000,000 US$ and "Development of a feasibility study of the reconstruction of Bishkek
power heating station" with the total budget of 1 140,000 US$.
Changes were also made in the budgets of the component "Assistance to the Ministry of
energy in developing methodology of tariff setting for power and heat energy and natural
gas", and "Strengthening of material and technical base of the Ministry of energy and the
State property committee ­ procurement of equipment (computer, color printer, copier,
notebook, scanner and other office equipment) and special vehicles. Thus the budget of
the first component was reduced by 20,000 US$ amounting to 120,000 US$. The budget
of the second component was reduced by 140,000 US$ amounting to 184,300 US$. The

                                             29
sub-component "Strengthening of material and technical base of the KR State property
committee" was also excluded with the total budget of 60,000 US$ and the budget of the
sub-component "Strengthening of material and technical base of the KR Ministry of
energy" was also reduced by 80,000 US$. According to the new Action plan a new
procurement plan was developed.

Component "Assistance to the Ministry of energy in developing methodology of tariff
setting for power and heat energy and natural gas":

       ) Development of methodology of tariff setting for power and heat energy and
natural gas.
According to the procurement plan 5 national consultants were recruited to provide
services in developing methodology of tariff setting for power, fuel energy and natural
gas.
The WB no objection was received in July 2009 to procure consulting services for
developing methodology of tariff setting for power and heat energy and natural gas. The
announcement about recruitment of consultants was published in the local newspaper on
July the 24th 2009.
On August the 17th 2009 the KR Ministry of energy conducted the selection of short-term
consultants on provision of services in developing methodology of tariff setting for
generation, transformation and distribution of power and heat energy and natural gas. The
total contract cost was 37,000 US$. The consultants started their assignments under their
ToRs on September the 2nd 2009 and completed them on December the 30th 2009.

     b) Office equipment ­ computer, printer, notebook, scanner and other office
equipment for the State department.
The WB no objection was received to procure office equipment (computer, printer, etc)
for the State department for regulation         of the KR Ministry of energy. The total
contract cost is 15,300 US$. At present the office equipment has been fully procured and
installed.

     c) Procurement of technical literature, guideline documents, organization
standards, sets of order documents, etc.
The WB no objection was received under the component "Procurement of technical
literature, guideline documents, organization standards, sets of order documents, etc" for
the State department for regulation of        of the KR Ministry of energy. The market of
providers of technical literature was investigated and the tender announcement was
published in the newspaper "Vecherny Bishkek" on September the 9th 2009. The contract
for delivery of technical literature, guideline documents, organization standards, sets of
order documents, etc. was signed on October the 2nd 2009 for the total amount of 299,016
som. The delivery of literature was completed in December 2009.

      c) establishment of the web-site of the State department to provide public access to
the legal framework of energy sector.



                                           30
The WB no objection was received under the component. The announcement about
procurement of consulting services was published in the newspaper "Vecherny Bishkek"
on September the 4th 2009. 5 applications were submitted under the competition. The
contract was signed in October for the total amount of 1,200 US$. The assignment on
establishment of the web-site was started in October 2009. According to the contract
conditions the assignment was to be fully completed by November 30th 2009. But due to
the delay from the State department related to placement and registration of the hosting
the assignment was completed in mid December 2009 (Web-site of the State department:
http://www. energetika.kg).

     d) Procurement of vehicle for the State department
Under the component "Procurement of vehicle for the State department for regulation of
FEK the market was investigated and information provided about vehicle providers. The
tender commission recommended the firm-provider for contract conclusion. The contract
with the provider for the total 25,375 US$ was signed and the vehicle was delivered in
December 2009.

       )Printing costs
Under the component "Printing costs" the State department submitted the ToR on
November the 25th 2009. The tender for procurement of printing services was announced.
The contract for the total amount of 81,330 som was signed. The commodities were
delivered in late December 2009.

       f) PR campaign

The total budget of the component is 27,600 US$. Under the component "Conducting
public hearings in the regions of the republic to explain the tariff policy for power and
heat energy and natural gas" the State department organized public hearings in Osh,
Jalalabad, Issykkul, Naryn and Talas oblasts of the Republic and in Bishkek city in the 4th
quarter 2009, and provided training courses for representatives of mass media related to
power energy problem.

Component "Capacity strengthening of the KR Ministry of energy":

        ) Vehicle

The PIU sent a letter of justification and technical specifications to the World Bank's
review for procurement of a vehicle on September the 1st 2009. In its letter of September
the 9th 2009 the World Bank approved the procurement of vehicles. As the provisional
budget for procurement of vehicles was about 100,000 US$ the WB conditions required
to organize international competitive bidding for procurement of vehicles which requires
a longer procurement period (6 and more months), therefore the PIU requested the WB to
approve the National request for quotations; the WB no objections was received on
September the 18th 2009; the PIU submitted draft bidding documents to the WB which
were approved on September the 23rd 2009. The PIU sent the invitation for bidding for
delivery of vehicles to 10 providers on September the 25th 2009. The deadline for bid
submission was set on October the 9th 2009. By the deadline 2 bids were submitted and

                                            31
one more bid was late. After further bid evaluation it was found out that the proposed
vehicles did not comply with the required technical specifications, therefore it was
decided to request the WB to approve the second bidding.
The PIU letter of request about the second tender was sent to WB on October the 21st
2009. In its letter of October the 28th the WB asked to provide comments on specific
points of procurement procedures. The same day the PIU provided its comments. The
WB approved the second tender under the component in its letter of October the 29th
2009.
The PIU announced the tender for procurement of vehicles in the newspaper "Vecherny
Bishkek" on November the 3rd 2009, and sent invitations for bidding to suppliers of
vehicles. The deadline for bid submission was on November the 16th 2009.

Based on the results of the technical and financial evaluation the PIU sent the evaluation
report to the WB. By its letter of November the 30th 2009 the WB did not approve the
evaluation report and recommended to negotiate with the second rated provider. In its
letter of November the 30th 2009 the PIU sent the payment conditions and deadlines for
delivery of the vehicle. The provider rejected the conditions proposed by the PIU. The
PIU informed the WB about the rejection of the conditions by the second provider on
December the 2nd 2009. The WB approved the procurement of one vehicle on December
the 3rd 2009 for the total amount of 61,850 US$. The PIU sent a notification about the
contract award for delivery of one vehicle. In its letter of December the 7th 2009 the
supplier informed the PIU about changing the contract conditions in terms of payment,
i.e. to make 100% payment for the vehicle in advance under a bank guarantee and only
after that the vehicle would be delivered. The PIU requested the WB to approve the
change of the contract conditions in terms of the payment on December the 7th 2009. In
reply the WB asked additional information about the delivery of the vehicle. On
December the 9th 2009 the PIU sent the required information to the WB. By its letter of
December 14th 2009 the WB did not accept the change of the contract conditions of
payment and rejected its approval to procure the vehicle.

        b) Office equipment ­ computer, printer, copier, notebook, scanner and other
office equipment.

The TAC PIU prepared technical specifications for office equipment and sent them
together with the tender documents to the WB for review and approval. By its letter of
November the 10th 2009 the WB commented the tender documents and accordingly
changes were made to the technical specifications of some equipment, and some of the
items were excluded from the requested list (case for the notebook, 1 photo camera, USB
flash card, telephone, hard disk, RAM, TV, mobile telephone, bulb for overhead
projector, computer armchair for the manager).

On November the 12th the announcement about the tender for procurement of office
equipment was published in the newspaper "Vecherny Bishkek" and invitation for
bidding were distributed among providers. The deadline for bid submission was set on
November the 26th 2009.




                                           32
The PIU sent the evaluation report by the tender commission to the WB. By its letter of
December the 14th 2009 the WB approved the procurement under the condition that the
commodities are located in Kyrgyzstan and will be delivered before the project closing
date, i.e. December the 31st 2009. The PIU sent a notification to the provider about award
of the contract for delivery of the equipment on December the 15th 2009.
The supplier signed the contract on December the 15th 2009. As of December the 31st
2009 the provider delivered the equipment for the amount of 1.669,416 som or 81.1% of
the total contract cost. Because of insufficient time left for the entire execution of the
contract prior to the project closing date, i.e. December the 31st 2009, the provider could
not make the full delivery before the set deadline.

The project closing date was December the 31st 2009. By its official letter of September
the 24th 2009 the World Bank set the grace period till April the 30th 2009, and the
Ministry of finance set it for March the 15th 2009. The PIU completed a number of
mandatory activities, such as the final audit of the project financial accounts; closing of
the project accounts in financial and credit institutions, transfer of fixed assets to the KR
Government Office and the executive agencies - the Ministry of energy, and the Ministry
of state property and archives. There are no arrears to providers and consultants. All
projects accounts in financial and credit institutions have been closed. There are no
arrears to the social fund and tax authorities. The final audit of the PIU accounts for
2009-2010 was made by the external audit firm.




                                             33
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                     34
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


   ·   Project Implementation Plan

   ·   Project Appraisal Document for Kyrgyz Republic: Technical Assistance Credit
       (TAC) dated May 25, 2000 (Report No: 20432-KG)

   ·   USAID-funded survey of business environment.

   ·   Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Implementation Status Reports.

   ·   Project Progress Reports.

   ·   Borrower's Evaluation Report dated April 2010


*including electronic files




                                         1
                                                                                72E                                               74E                                           76E                                           78E                                                80E




                                                                                                                                      K A Z A K H S TA N                                                                                                                                      44N


                                               KYRGYZ
                                               REPUBLIC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                      To                                                                                       Ushtobe
                                                                                                                  Burylbaytal                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Panfilov




                                                                                                                                                        Chu
                                                                                                                                    BISHKEK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ts.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   u M
                                                                                                                                  Kara-Balta                      Tokmok                                     ata                                Tyup
                                                                  Kirov                                                                                                                        ey        -Al    Cholpon-Ata
                                           To
                                        Shymkent
                                                                                         Talas
                                                                                         Talas                                          CHUI                                          K    ung                                                  Karakol
                                                                                                                                                                                              Balykchi      Lake Issyk-Kul
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Peak Pobedy
                                                                                  TA L A S                                         Tunuk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ISSYK-KUL                                      7439 m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Barskaun                             Enilchek                    42N
                 42N
                                                                 tkal
                                                              ha                   Toktogul               Toktogul
                                                             C                                                                                  Chaek
                                                                                  Reservoir                                                                                                                                                            Shyirak
                                                                 JALAL-ABAD                                                             T i Lake Sonkul
                                                                                                                                               a n                                                n
                                                                                                                                                                         S      h         a
                                                                                                   Kara-Kul                                                                                                                      Kara-Say
                                                                                                                                                   N a ry n
                                                                                       Tash-Kumyr                                                                                     Nar yn
                                                                                                                                                                                      Naryn
                              U Z B E K I S TAN                                                                                                         NARYN
                                                                                                                                                                At-Bashy
                          To
                       Tashkent
                                                                                                              Jalal-Abad                                                                    say
                                                                                                                                                                                          Ak
                                                                                                                                                                Lake                                                                        0       25       50     75       100 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                              Charyi-Kel'
                                                                                                                     Kurs
                                                                                                                         hab
                                                                                                     Osh
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0               25       50           75 Miles

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    78E                                                80E
                                                                                                                        Gul'cha
                    To                                                                Kyzyl-Kiya
                  Bukhoro
                 40N
                                  Sulyukta                                                                OSH                                                                                                          40N
                                                   Batken
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
                                                   B AT K E N                                                    Sary-Tash
                                                                                                                                                                         To

                                                                                 Daraut- K
                                                                                           yz    yl Suu                                                                 Hotan                  CHINA                                                   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                                                                 Korgan                                                                                                                                                                OBLAST CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RIVERS

                                                            TA J I K I S TA N                                                                                                                                                                          MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                              Murghab                                     This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                              RAILROADS
SEPTEMBER 2004




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 33430
                                                                                                                                                          The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                          shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                OBLAST BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                          Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                          endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                     70E                                  72E                                                   74E                                                 76E
