Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14890-PAK
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PAKISTAN
IMPROVEMENT TO FINANCIAL REPORTING AND AUDITING PROJECT
August 5, 1996
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as on March 1996)
Pakistan Rupee = 100 paisa
Currency Unit = Rupee (Rs)
Rs 1.00 = US$ 0.03
US$ 1.00 at appraisal = Rs. 34.5 (March 1996)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAT          -      Association of Accounting Technicians
AATI                Audit and Accounts Training Institute
AG           -      Accountant General
AGPR         -      Accountant General Pakistan Revenues
DAOs         -      District Accounts Offices
ECNEC        -      Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
FY           -      Fiscal Year
GOP          -      Government of Pakistan
HRM          -      Hluman Resource Management
MIS          -      Management Information Systems
MOF          -      Ministry of Finance
PAC          -      Public Accounts Committee
PAD          -      Pakistan Audit Department
GOP FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30



PAKISTAN
IMPROVEMENT TO FINANCIAL REPORTING AND AUDITING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .............................i
I. THE SECTOR BACKGROUND                                 .          .1
A.   Government Accounting and Audit .
B.      Status of Governments' Financial Reporting and Auditing    .2
C.  Government's Strategy                          .3
D.      Lessons from Previous IDA Involvement              .5
1I. THE PROJECT                                  ..6
A.      Project Origin and Borrower Ownership              .6
B. Objectives                                 .6
C.  Project Description                           .6
D.   Performance Monitoring Indicators .10
E. IDA's Strategy .1
F. Environent .11
G.  Project Cost and Financing .                                           1
H. Procurement .13
I.  Disbursement .15
III. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS                  .................................... 17
A.      Assessment of Current Arrangements ....................................  17
B.      Addressing Institutional Constraints ....................................1  7
This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission to Pakistan in March 1995. Project team
members included: Mr. G. Lee (Senior Municipal Financial Specialist, SAIIN), Task Manager and
Mission Leader; Ms. Antoinette Sayeh (Macro Economist, SAlCA); Mr. Ali Hashim (Senior
Information Technology Specialist, EMTDR); Mr. Akbar Khawaja (Informatics Specialist, ITSIE);
Messrs. Omer Morshed, Riyaz Bokhari and Vinod Sahgal (Consultants). The project is endorsed by
Ms. Mieko Nishimizu, Director, Country Department I, South Asia Region, and Ms. Marie
Robinson, Chief, Infrastructure Operations Division.  The Peer Review  team  comprised
Messrs. John Graves (Training and Staff Development), George Russell ( Financial Management);
Al Kennefick (Accounting Systems), Pervaiz Rashid (Audit), and Eduardo Talero (Information
Technology). Ms. Bina Duggal and Mr. Jack Williams (SA1IN) assisted in the production of this
report.



IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                              .      ........................... 21
A.      Organizations Responsible for the Project .21
B.   Implementation Responsibilities .22
C.  Implementation Strategy .23
D.  Status of Preparation .28
E.  Project Sustainability .28
F.  Accounts and Audit .29
G.   Monitoring and Evaluation .29
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS    ..31
A. Benefits .31
B.  Economic Analysis .32
C. Risks .32
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED ..... 35
ANNEXES
1.     Project Costs
2.     Government's Vision Statement for Financial Reporting and Auditing
3.     Scope of Work for Systems Consultants
4.     Information Systems Architecture for Government Fiscal Management
5.     Training Plan
6.     Implementation Plan
7.     Disbursement Schedule
8.     Project Milestones and Performance Indicators
9.     Supervision Plan
10.     Technical Assistance Objectives, Classification, Activities and Outputs
11.     Documents in Project File
Map          IBRD No. 27293



PAKISTAN
IMPROVEMENT TO FINANCIAL REPORTING AND AUDITING PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Implementing Agencies:  Pakistan Audit Department, Ministry of Finance and the Planning
Commission
Beneficiaries:         Pakistan Audit Department, Ministry of Finance, and the Planning
Commission
Poverty:               Not Applicable
Amount:                SDR 20.1 million (US$28.8 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard, with 35 years maturity.
Commitment Fee:        Standard (a variable rate between 0% and 0.5% of the undisbursed
credit balance, set annually by the Executive Directors of IDA)
Financing Plan:        See Table 2.2
Economic Rat
of Retu:              Unquantified
map:                   IBRD No. 27293
Project Identification
Number:               PK-PA-36015






PAKISTAN
IMPROVEMENT TO FINANCIAL REPORTING AND AUDITING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. Government Accounting and Audit
1.1         The Government of Pakistan's financial management cycle begins with planning
and programming and runs through budget formulation, budget execution, accounting, financial
control and audit/evaluation. The cycle is iterative; new plans are influenced by past results.
Reliable financial information is a key requirement for all phases.
1.2         The Constitution of Pakistan prescribes that all government expenditures, revenues,
loans and their repayments shall form part of provincial or federal consolidated funds and
withdrawals from the consolidated funds shall be regulated by law. The system of financial control
and budgeting is based on federallprovincial secretaries being designated as the principal
accounting officers of their respective departments, with the responsibility to ensure that funds
allotted to their departments are spent for authorized purposes and that expenditure is not incurred
in excess of budget allocations.
1.3         The Pakistan Audit Department (PAD) plays a key role in government financial
management. The functions of the Auditor General of Pakistan are defined in the Constitution of
Pakistan and regulated by statutory orders issued from time to time. The most recent of these is the
Pakistan Audit and Accounts Order 1973. Under this authority, PAD is responsible for keeping the
accounts of the federal and provincial governments, with the exception of certain departmentalized
accounts, defense, and railways. PAD is also responsible for audit of all expenditure and income of
the federal and provincial governments. As a crucial part of budget preparation and execution,
PAD prepares the accounting information which is used by executive agencies for planning and
programming purposes, and which forms part of the payments control process. PAD's audit
function maintains public accountability by auditing the accounts of government entities and
presenting audit findings to the legislature's Public Accounts Committee (PAC).
1.4         PAD's responsibility for accounting for both the Federation and the Provinces is
discharged through a network of offices under five Accountant Generals (AGs), one for each
province and the fifth, Accountant General Pakistan Revenues (AGPR), for the federal government,
with each office supported by District Accounts Offices (DAOs) and/or Treasury Offices which are
functionally responsible to it. The governments' accounts are prepared by PAD at the respective
AG's office located in each provincial capital, and by the AGPR in Islamabad for the Federation.
The accounts are based upon the primary financial transactions of payments and receipts which take
place at DAOs/Treasuries, the process being as follows. The executive agencies submit claims for
payment to the local DAO/Treasury, which authorizes payment by the local branch of the National



Bank of Pakistan, acting as the government's cashier. In case of receipts, the depositor is required
to deposit the amount in the bank/treasury. The bank sends a daily record to the local
DAO/Treasury which records the transactions. Transaction information, complied into accounts by
DAOs or in the form of individual transactions from Treasuries, is submitted to the AG, who
compiles an account of aggregate receipts and expenditures for reconciliation with departmental
records and government information.
1.5         PAD produces monthly and annual (Civil) accounts on the basis of information
received from the DAOs, Treasury offices, agencies with departmentalized accounts and inter-
government and inter-office adjustments. At the year end, annual appropriation accounts, annual
finance accounts and the combined finance and revenue accounts are prepared and supplied to the
federal and the provincial governments.
B. Status of Governments' Financial Reporting and Auditing
1.6         The government's fiscal reporting system and the institutional arrangements for
accounting and auditing were reviewed by a diagnostic consultancy financed under the Third
Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. 1755-PAK) to assess the adequacy of current institutional
arrangements, systems and procedures and to formulate a long term strategy for improvement. The
key findings of this study are:
a)    reports produced by the PAD do not meet the objectives of a fiscal reporting
system. Crucial financial information such as budget data and revenue collection
details are not reported. Financial information is fragmented between various
agencies and a reliable cohesive picture cannot be obtained. As a result the
reporting system does not provide government with an effective method to: (i)
monitor the fiscal deficit and its financing for aggregate control; (ii) manage its
cash and debt position; (iii) monitor expenditures in relation to appropriations; or,
(iv) provide analyses of spending and revenue trends to assist with policy
formulation and performance measurement;
b)    because of serious deficiencies in the financial systems, financial data for
financial planning, budgeting, reporting and control is unreliable. Financial
reports and final accounts, mostly based on manual accounting systems, are
neither timely, complete nor designed to meet user needs;
c)    PAD's audit function is viewed as a means of detecting irregularities and fraud
rather than as a management control function. The focus is to verify transactions
regardless of their value. Reviews of internal controls for system weaknesses are
norrnally not carried out. Audits have limited coverage due to lack of resources and
quality suffers due to a lack of expertise. Revenue audits do not have a major role
in PAD's audit function. Only a small proportion of Drawing and Disbursement
Officers are audited each year and purposeful parameters, such as potential risks or
weaknesses in internal controls, are not used as selection criteria for audits.



- 3-
Certification audit has made little progress due to the volume of transactions and
lack of expertise within PAD. In the absence of auditing standards and quality
assurance, the quality of audit work is low;
d)    PAD, the Supreme Audit Institution of Pakistan, is compromised due to the
agency's dual responsibility of maintaining the accounts of entities and being
responsible for their audit. Separation of the accounting and auditing functions
within government is viewed as a primary requirement for establishing the
independence and credibility of audit; and
e)   the existing human resource management functions in PAD are limited in scope.
Personnel at the accounts offices are frequently not adequately qualified or
trained. The effectiveness of training programs is undermined by lack of
application of training.
1.7         The absence of accurate, comprehensive and timely financial information in
Pakistan's federal and provincial governments hampers efforts to improve resource allocation,
monitoring and control of expenditure, cash flow and debt management, and casts uncertainty on
the financial data underpinning public sector management decisions and the macro economic
dialogue.
1.8         As major internal financial controls are not functioning, governance, based upon
accountability for use of resources, is being undermined. The accounting weaknesses further
limit the usefulness of audit, in addition to the technical shortcomings noted above.
C. Government's Strategy
1.9         Vision Statement The Government of Pakistan recognizes that as it proceeds to
open up its economy and free it from regulatory controls, the need for modern financial
management systems and good governance becomes paramount. Instead of direct intervention it
has to design appropriate fiscal and monetary responses to changing conditions. To be able to do
so, the government recognizes the need for a modern set of tools to provide it with comprehensive,
accurate and timely financial information. As government strives to attract private foreign
investment the issues of transparency and accountability become even more important in the
context of a global economy. Agreeing with the thrust of the recommendations of the diagnostic
consultancy, the govemment has developed an overall vision statement for financial reporting and
auditing (see Annex 2) stating its intention to:
a)    adopt and implement a modern accounting system designed according to recognized
accounting principles and standards and based on modern information technology;
b)   implement a governance structure and legal framework for an independent and
effective audit function;
c)   improve the professional capacity of the elements of the civil service responsible for
fiscal management;



- 4 -
d)    make increasing use of the private sector to supplement public sector resources; and
e)    adopt improved standards for private sector financial disclosure.
1.10        The redefinition of public/private roles which forms a core element of Pakistan's
structural reform program requires a diminished public sector involvement in productive
activities but imposes increased demands on the government for economic policy coordination
and economic information. However, the current capacity of the Ministry of Finance and the
Planning Commission to prepare medium-to-longer term policy options on key development
finance issues and to monitor the implementation of related reforms is weak and requires
strengthening. In particular, improved skills and policy formulation capacity are needed to:
a)    manage an increasingly open economy in the face of large capital inflows and
outflows;
b)   implement policies to improve and make more competitive the enabling
environment for the private sector; and
c)    develop more efficient resource allocation and expenditure utilization structures
required for the expansion of basic social services.
1.11        In this connection, the government will need to follow through on the
implementation of the recommendations of the 1993 Economy Commission on the
administrative restructuring and organization of the Federal Secretariat. MOF and the Planning
Commission -- which are the primary users of the financial information prepared by PAD -- have
requested assistance to strengthen their analytical and policy formulation capacity in these and
other areas of macroeconomic management.
1.12        Policy Changes To address problems in accounting and auditing described above,
the government has agreed to introduce policy changes relating to:
a)    adoption of improved accounting principles and standards for the government
sector;
b)    a phased transfer of responsibilities for government accounting from the Auditor
General to the executive arm of government;
c)    enhanced independence, standards and capacity for government audit, including
greater use of private sector firms in public sector finance; and,
d)    development of the skills and competencies of government finance staff, including
revised human resource management and training policies.
1.13        Government has requested IDA's assistance to implement these strategies, which
it is considered would require a sequence of projects. This project would address standards for
accounting and auditing, design improved systems and start implementation of selected
improvements (with greater initial emphasis on accounting), strengthen capacity, initiate
institutional changes, such as the phased transfer of accounting responsibilities to the executive arm
of government, and identify further strengthening of financial management, particularly with regard
to audit. The project will provide a basis for improvements in governance and accountability.
Private sector firms have been consulted during the design of this project, and the project includes



assistance to increase further private sector participation in public finance. Subject to satisfactory
performance, subsequent projects would, in conjunction with the executive agency created for
government accounting, complete the replication of accounting systems across all accounting
offices, and with the restructured Audit Department help to address matters to further enhance
capacity and independence which need to be handled over the longer term, providing tools for
further enhancing governance. In all, about a 10 to 15 year period of involvement in improving
financial management is envisaged.
D. Lessons from Previous IDA Involvement
1.14         IDA's past experience with similar projects demonstrates the need for:
a)    a high level of commitment on the part of the member country to project objectives;
b)    well defined objectives, consistent with the country's absorptive capacity;
c)    thorough preparation and accurate assessment of needs; and
d)    rigorous supervision.
1.15         IDA's previous experience of PAD is limited to project audit, and PAD's
component of the Third Technical Assistance Credit (Cr.1755-PAK) which had four sub-
components:
a)    computerization of accounting and payroll procedures through automation of
existing procedures;
b)    enhancing research and development capabilities of the Department, including
assessing the strengths and weaknesses of the existing system of fiscal reporting;
c)    reviewing and improving the Department's training arrangements and facilities;
and
d)    preparing a development program for the next phase.
1.16         Experience gained in this project highlights the necessity of setting up appropriate
mechanisms for involving and obtaining agreement from federal and provincial government at an
early stage of the project. Project management requirements include setting up clearly defined
project management structures, for proper planning in the use and development of new
application software, and for developing appropriate performance indicators to judge
effectiveness. Training programs need clear statements of objectives and benefits of training,
local participation in course development, appropriate procedures for selecting trainees and
deploying trained staff, training for senior officers, and use of in-country courses where
appropriate since foreign training is expensive.



- 6 -
I. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Borrower Ownership
2.1         The project is based upon diagnostic analysis undertaken by PAD of the status of
government accounting and audit, which resulted in the preparation of the strategies underpinning
the project. Internal ownership of the project is strengthened as the project would build on PAD's
own computerization initiatives and training undertaken prior to and as part of the Third Technical
Assistance Project (Cr. 1755-PAK). The project concept has been widely discussed within PAD, to
inform departmental staff of the objectives of change and the opportunities generated thereof. PAD
has developed external ownership within the government, through discussions with and
involvement of the main users of financial reports and information, the major intended beneficiaries
of the improved accounting systems and financial reporting. The relevant agencies concerned with
HRM, particularly the Establishment Division and the Federal Public Services Commission have
also been consulted about project design. A Committee has been established comprising the key
federal and provincial government users of financial information, to advise on the improvements to
financial systems and to monitor implementation.
.R Objectives
2.2         The overall objectives of the project are:
a)   to improve public sector accounting and financial systems;
b)   to provide the basis for enhancing public sector accountability; and
c)   to support improved institutional capacity for economic policy-making and
management.
C. Project Description
2.3         The project would comprise components for public sector financial management
including accounting, auditing and institutional development, economic policy-making and
management.
2.4         GovernMent Accounting and Financisl Reporting (base cost USS 12.3
millio) The government wishes to develop accounting standards, reporting systems and
financial administration procedures conforming as far as practicable to internationally accepted
principles. In view of the very high and continuously increasing volume of financial transactions,
a completely manual recording and processing system for PAD's accounting and auditing needs
is no longer feasible for the delivery of the type of information required for financial
management. Therefore, the adoption of some degree of automation is inevitable. Properly
designed computer based systems would, in addition to managing the processing of a large
number of transactions and the corresponding information retrieval needs, efficiently, also help



- 7 -
ensure that controls prescribed for financial transactions are adhered to, thereby improving the
effectiveness of public expenditure management processes. Accordingly, PAD wishes to
implement a set of high priority computer based financial application systems. The project
includes consultancy assistance to define a modem set of accounting standards, for
implementation of the improved standards, and computer hardware, software, consultancies and
training required for the design, development and implementation of the following high priority
financial systems at about 21 of the total 95 sites:
a)    Core Accounting and Reporting System: This system would provide integrated
government-wide accounting, encompassing the functional requirements for
budget execution, and covering the appropriation, commitment, funds allocation,
and payment processes for investment and current budgets.
The system would be comprehensive in terms of coverage and provide a credible
source of reliable and timely data. Accordingly, the Core Accounting System
would be fully automated, interfacing with external data sources, such as external
debt, on a periodic basis. This system, introduced along with a modem budget
classification system and an appropriate chart of accounts, would enable
expenditures and revenues to be recorded at a detailed level and related to specific
programs and projects. The data would be amenable to cross classification for
financial and economic analyses.
It would be used by: (i) PAD (including its subordinate units and its successor
organization) to perform the basic accounting functions; (ii) the federal MOF and
the provincial Finance Departnents to perform the processes associated with budget
execution, monitoring and control; implement cash limits, as may be required; (iv)
the federal Planning Division and the provincial Planning Departnents to obtain the
status of actual expenditures on ongoing programs and projects. Data would also be
directly available for use by agencies/spending units for program and project
management.
b)    Payroll and Pension Systems: The payroll of government employees constitutes
a large portion of government expenditures. The need for an automated payroll
and pension system is evident in view of the increasing volume of transactions.
The proposed system would perform the full range of the payroll functions, and
the expenditures processed would automatically update the core accounting and
reporting system.
c)    Cash Flow Forecasting and Financial Analysis System: One of the MOF's
main information needs is to establish a system for forecasting likely flows of
payments and receipts, and the consequent impact on cash balances and issue of
debt instruments. The cash flow and financial analysis system would be designed
to meet this requirement. It would provide a powerful facility for retrieving
current and historical data from the accounting system, and it would allow end-
users to manipulate the data for forecasting and analysis purposes.



- 8 -
2.5         A more detailed description of the information systems, their scope in terms of the
functional processes and agencies they cover, how they fit in the context of the overall
information systems architecture for fiscal management in Pakistan, and a description of the
proposed technology architecture, is given in Annex 4 and shown schematically in Figure 1 in
the Annex.
2.6         A study would also be made to assess the impact to date of departmentalized
accounting, and to recommend future strategy options. PAD would also, within its existing
resources, establish as needed continuous review of government rules and regulations to:
a)   identify changes required to bring the rules up to date;
b)   implement recommendations in audit reports; and
c)   reflect changes in systems and procedures.
2.7         Government Auditing (base cost US$ 6.6 million) This component focuses on
audit systems improvement and systems development. It includes:
a)    Audit Standards and Techniques: Consultant services to prepare guidelines for
the introduction of international auditing standards, to introduce modem auditing
techniques and concepts, to review PAD's audit policies, processes and
procedures, output, workload, efficiency and quality assurance for the audit
function, to advise on methodologies to enhance PAD's communications with
stake holders, for internal audit of PAD's systems under development, to assist in
the use of automated audit tools and standard audit programs wherever
appropriate, to improve communication of audit results and to develop quality
assurance programs.
b)    Automated Tools: Provision of hardware and audit software for audit planning,
sampling and documentation, and for audit of automated accounting systems.
c)    Capacity Development: Consultancy to support revised human resource
management procedures through international training in a modem financial
system environment and through arranging attachments with other Supreme Audit
Institutions.
d)    Use of Private Sector Firms: Assistance with developing modalities for utilizing
private sector firms, and finance for private audit firms' fees.
2.8         Institutional Development To sustain the above improvements to financial
management systems, the project would assist in the introduction of revised human resource
management policies, the strengthening of financial management training, the development of a
Management Information Systems (MIS) wing of PAD, introduction of office automation to
assist in the performance of day to day work, and put in place project management structures.



- 9 -
a)    Human Resource Management (HRM) (base cost US$ 1.3 million): The
HRM component would involve organizational and systems development.
Although PAD would implement most components without external support, the
project would provide consultant assistance for managing the process of change,
for preparation of job descriptions and performance standards, and for installing
an MIS system for HRM planning and monitoring. PAD would share the details
and results of its HRM policies with provinces and the Establishment Division.
b)    Training (base cost US$ 6.0 million): The training component includes moving
towards professional-level training, providing retraining associated with the
changes introduced by the project, strengthening the quality of training and
training facilities, and expanding the circle of beneficiaries. The project would
provide refurbishment and some extension of existing facilities, equipment,
computer hardware, materials, and consultants to assist in training needs
assessments, course design, materials development and training of trainers. The
component would also include international scholarships for faculty trainers, and
seminars. In addition to including provincial staff in its training programs, PAD
would share training course materials with provincial training institutes as
appropriate. A detailed training plan is attached at Annex 5.
c)    Administration (base cost US$ 6.3 million): The project would include
administrative capacity development as follows:
i. MIS Wing: The project would support the creation of an MIS Wing and
would provide for the following:
*  a Software Development Center;
*  selected posts to be staffed by contract professionals (such as the
General Manager (MIS) and other technical specialists);
*  local training for PAD staff in systems development; and,
*  recurrent costs for systems maintenance.
ii. Project Management: Strengthening the Project Directorate, through
provision of staff, facilities, hardware and software, consultants and training.
Assistance would also be provided for technical review of computerized
information systems' development, and for a senior level advisory panel of
international experts, which would at least meet annually.
iii. Future Project Preparation: Assistance for preparation of the follow-up
project if grant funds are not available.
iv. Office Automation: Provision for a local area network and associated office
software for PAD.



-10-
2.9         Other Policy Support for Economic Management (base cost US$ 1.7 million)
MOF and the Planning Commission would manage selected studies on economic and financial
policy issues related to the on-going macroeconomic and structural reform program, a diagnostic
study of the institutional arrangements for macroeconomic policy-making, and technical
assistance/training to upgrade staff skills. Specific areas include international capital markets,
foreign asset/liability management, improving the revenue yield of certain taxes, on-the-job
specialized training in macro modeling, and assistance for establishment of a nucleus in the
Planning Commission for analyzing and monitoring poverty. The project would finance the
costs of (mostly local) consultancy services required for the studies and short-term technical
assistance for staff training. Terms of reference for key studies would be completed prior to
negotiations.
D. Performance Monitoring Indicators
2.10        To measure implementation performance, and to monitor the project's impact, the
following key indicators, discussed and agreed with government, would be selected from the
project's implementation plan (Annex 6) and milestones and performance indicators (Annex 8):
a)    Implementation Performance
i)   revised accounting standards adopted by May 1997;
ii)   pilot implementation of core financial systems completed by
December 1999;
iii)   province-wide replication of core financial systems completed by
December 200 1;
iv)   identification of public/private audit cooperation opportunities by
December 1997;
v)   introduction of Accounting Technicians and 2 year Probationers'
training by April 1998 and January 1999, respectively; and
vi)   approval of proposals for functional separation of accounting and audit by
December 1999.
b)    Outcome and Impact
i)   improved financial reports including budget, variance and project costs;
ii)   percentage of transactions automated, by value;
iii)   cash-flow forecasts introduced and efficiency of borrowing improved;
iv)   PAD staffs job rotation within 3 years reduced;
v)    more timely reports to Public Accounts Committees; and
vi)  improved training impact evaluation results.



- 11 -
E. IDA's Strategy
2.11        The proposed project is consistent with IDA's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
discussed on December 15, 1995. The CAS stresses the centrality of fiscal adjustment to
Pakistan's reform and development efforts. Addressing these concerns involves, inter alia,
improved resource mobilization, public expenditure reform, more effective use of government
resources, and improved public sector management. The project would focus on developing
more effective financial accounting, reporting, control and monitoring systems, and would
therefore provide an essential support for these activities. The policy support component would
assist achieve CAS objectives by contributing to improvements in macroeconomic management.
2.12         The CAS, in support of the establishment of a more competitive enabling
environment, also seeks to improve governance in Pakistan. The proposed emphasis on improved
accounting and financial reporting will have a direct impact in this regard. Sound accounting is the
first line of good governance. Governance would also be assisted by the improved transparency of
the linkages between budgeting, internal controls and accountability resulting from the new
systems, and the improved financial systems would help ensure the routine application of all
prescribed controls on financial transactions. In the longer term, the measures to enhance the
auditor's independence and strengthen audit capacity would also contribute to improved
governance.
2.13        IDA's involvement would build upon its existing dialogues with PAD, relating to
project audit and the preparation of this project. The proposed project complements and reinforces
Bank group operations such as the Sindh Special Development Project (Cr. 2558-PAK) which
assists Government of Sindh's efforts to reform provincial policies and programs. The project
would also support government's effort to seek greater involvement of private sector firms in
government financial management. IDA is well placed to provide assistance because of its
continuing dialogue with government on fiscal adjustment, its involvement with executive
departments of both federal and provincial government, and its ability to provide, subject to
satisfactory performance, longer termn support to undertake subsequent stages of reform.
F. Environment
2.14        There are no environmental problems anticipated for this project, which has
received a C rating under the IDA's Environmental Assessment Operational Guidelines.
G. PoJect Cost and Fa
2.15        The total cost of the proposed project, including physical and price contingencies, is
estimated at US$ 37.2 million equivalent, of which taxes and duties amount to US$1.8 million
equivalent. Summary estimates are given in Table 2.1 and detailed estimates are given in Annex 1.
Full details are contained in the project file. The foreign exchange component is estimated at
US$17.1 million equivalent or 46% of total project costs.



- 12 -
Table 2.1: SUMMARY COST ESTIMATES
PRS Million              USS Million                   %
%/.    Total
Local  Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Foreign    Base
Exch.    Costs
r                             ,         _   _   ...  .   .   .~~~....................... ...........    ......... .......................   ........       .........
. A. Gove.nment Accounting.....
and Financial Reporting   174.3    250.5   424.8    5.1       7.3     12.4    59       36
B. Government Auditing        108.2    120.5   228.6    3.2      3.5      6.7    53        19
C. Human Resource
Management                 23.4     21.1    44.5    0.7       0.6      1.3    47        4
D. Training                   135.9     71.6   207.5    3.9      2.1      6.0    35        18
E. Administration             156.5     59.9   216.5 I  4.5      1.7      6.2    28        18
F. Other Policy Support        30.9     28.6    59.5    0.9      0.8      1.7    48         5
|TotalBaselineCosts            629.2    552.2  1181.4   18.3    16.0    34.3    47          100  |
Physical Contingencies         16.5     15.6    32.1 .  0.4      0.5      0.9    49         3
Price Contingencies           168.4    118.6   287.0    1.4      0.6      2.0    31         6
Total Project Costs           814.1    686.4  1500.5   20.1    17.1    37.2    46          109
(Totals may not add due to rounding)
US$ I = Rs. 40.4 (average)
2.16           The base cost estimates reflect price levels in March 1996. Estimates for materials,
equipment, vehicles and technical assistance have been based on recent quotations from suppliers,
market surveys of manufacturers, and contracts. Physical contingencies of 5% on computer
hardware and purchased software, and 10% on software development services have been allowed.
Price contingencies and foreign exchange conversions have been calculated in accordance with
Bank guidelines, using World Bank estimates prevailing at the time of appraisal. Foreign inflation
rates are estimated as 3.6% for the calendar year 1996, and about 2.4% annually thereafter.
Domestic annual inflation is estimated to be 12% for calendar year 1995 and 7.5% annually
thereafter. No price contingencies have been included for hardware. Price contingencies amount to
5.4% of the total estimated project cost. Estimated exchange rate parities between US dollars and
Pakistan Rupees result in an average Rs. 40.4 per US dollar over the course of the project.
2.17          The proposed IDA credit of US$28.8 million equivalent would finance about 77%
of project costs, covering 100% of foreign exchange and 56 % of local currency requirements.
Federal govemment (23 %) would finance the balance. The government's contribution would
include finance for duties, taxes, and recurrent costs, including incremental staff salaries,
maintenance, consumables and other recurrent costs. The project financing plan is summarized in
Table 2.2 below.



- 13 -
Table 2.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
US$ million
Foreign    .     oal
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..........  ............................................................... ...... .
Government of Pakistan          8.4             -             8.4           23
~~~~~~~~~~....................................................................   ........................................   ........................................................
IDA  11 7      17.1     .2 I                 77
Tota21i i           17.1           37;2           100
2.18          The IDA credit would be made available to GOP on standard terms. US$26.9
million equivalent would be passed to PAD, US$0.7 million equivalent to the Planning
Commission and US$1.2 million equivalent to MOF through normal budgetary procedures.
H. Procurement
2.19          Procurement of goods and civil works would be carried out in accordance with
World Bank procurement guidelines, with arrangements as indicated in Table 4.1 below.
2.20          Works: Procurement of civil works for site preparation at the 12 sites where
computer systems would be installed and renovation of training facilities would be in accordance
with national competitive procedures acceptable to IDA. The estimated cost of civil works for
site preparation and renovation is US$ 0.9 million equivalent inclusive of contingencies with
individual contracts under US$ 100,000 equivalent. The small scattered nature of the work
would limit the interests of foreign bidders. Existing procurement procedures of the
implementing agency have been reviewed to ensure adequate competition and encourage
economy and efficiency.
2.21          Goods: The estimated cost of goods (mainly computer hardware and software,
office furniture and equipment, and vehicles) is US$10.0 million inclusive of contingencies.
Procurement of the main computer systems would be in accordance with IDA's procurement
guidelines. A total of 12 computer systems are to be procured for accounting and financial
reporting; one system for the Software Development Center, and the remaining 11 for accounting
offices nationwide. The computer system required for systems development and testing at the
Software Development Center, about two years prior to the main procurement, would be
procured as a separate item following national competitive bidding procedures (NCB). The
technical specification for this system would be based on UNIX and OPEN system standards,
thereby not pre-determining the procurement of the remaining 11 systems. These will be
packaged as a single international competitive bidding (ICB) procurement, with phased delivery
of equipment. Other contracts over US$ 100,000 equivalent would be awarded on the basis of
ICB, including the procurement of vehicles and equipment. Local suppliers and manufacturers
competing for the supply of goods under ICB would be granted a margin of preference of 15% of
the CIF bid price for locally manufactured goods or the applicable custom duties and taxes-
whichever is lower-during bid evaluation. Other procurement of vehicles and equipment in
contracts of less than US$ 100,000 equivalent would be carried out under NCB procedures



- 14-
aggregating not more than US$ 2.8 million. Minor items including office furniture and
equipment, personal computers, vehicles and items in small quantities which would not attract
the interest of foreign suppliers, would be procured through local shopping obtaining price
quotations from not less than three suppliers, in packages not exceeding US$50,000 equivalent,
and not exceeding US$ 0.3 million equivalent in aggregate.
Table 2.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ Million)
Procurement Method         Total
Project Element                 ICB      NCB      Other      NIF       Costs
Works                                     0.9                            0.9
(0.8)                        (0.8)
Goods                            6.9      2.8       0.3                 10.0
(5.7)    (2.3)    (0.2)                (8.2)
Service Contracts                                  5.9                   5.9
(5.9)               (5.9)
Technical Assistance
Implementation Assistance                     1.9                   1.9
(1.9)               (1.9)
Institutional Development                      9.4                 9.4
(incl. Training)                             (9.4)                (9.4)
Policy Support                                 1.8                 1.8
(1.8)               (1.8)
Incremental Staff Costs                                      1.0        1.0
Operating Costs                                              5.5        5.5
Refinancing PPF                                     0.8                 0.8
(0.8)               (0.8)
TOTAL                            6.9      3.7      20.1      6.5        37.2
(5.7)    (3.1)    (20.0)    (0.0)     (28.8)
NIF = Not IDA Financed
Numbers in parentheses indicate IDA Financed Amounts



- 15-
2.22         Consultancies. Incremental Staff and Operating Costs: The estimated cost of
service contracts, consultants and training is US$19.8 million equivalent. Consultancies
incorporating substantial international expertise include: development of accounting standards,
financial systems design and implementation (base costs US$ 3.7 million); assistance to strengthen
audit (base costs US$ 1.5 million); development of training and training materials (base costs US$
0.6 million); and change management assistance for HRM (base costs US$ 0.3 million).
Consultancies and service contracts incorporating mostly national expertise include: financial
systems software coding (base costs US$ 1.7 million); fees for private sector audit firms (base costs
US$ 2.0 million); economic management studies (base costs US$ 1.1 million); assistance to the
Planning Commission (base costs US$ 0.6 million); and assistance to replicate systems
implementation (base costs US$ 0.6 million). Training courses and attachments include
international training in financial management/MBAs (base costs US$ 1.0 million) and attachments
with SAIs (base costs US$ 0.5 million). Technical training of computer staff (base costs US$ 0.5
million) and seminars and conferences (base costs US$ 0.1 million) would be mainly national.
Consulting services would be procured in accordance with The World Bank Guidelines for Use of
Consultants. Incremental staff and operating costs would be financed by government.
2.23         Contract Review. All individual contracts for civil works and goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of US$ 100,000 or more and contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost US$ 100,000 equivalent each or more and contracts for the employment of
individuals estimated to cost US$ 50,000 equivalent each or more would be subject to IDA's prior
review and approval. For consultants contracts below these thresholds, prior review would be
required of: (a) terms of reference; (b) single source selection of firms; (c) assignments of a critical
nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms or individuals that would raise the contract values to these thresholds. It is
estimated that 70% of the contracts for civil works and goods would be subject to prior review.
Post review would be undertaken of the remainder on a random basis.
I. Disbursement
2.24         The IDA Credit would be disbursed over a period of five years and would finance
about 77% per cent of the cost of the project. The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed
against eligible expenditures, net of taxes and duties, as indicated in Table 4.2 below. The
estimated disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 7.
2.25         Disbursements would be fully documented except those for expenditures: (a) under
contracts not exceeding the equivalent of: (i) US$ 100,000 each for goods and civil works, (ii)
US$ 100,000 for the services of consulting firms, and (iii) $50,000 for the services of individual
consultants; and, (b) for training. Such disbursements would be made against Statements of
Expenditure (SOE), the documentation for which would not be submitted to IDA but retained by
PAD in Islamabad and made available during the course of project supervision. It is estimated that
about US$ 8.6 million equivalent would be disbursed through SOEs. Individual small contracts
for works, goods, services and training can be claimed through submission of Statement of



- 16-
Expenditures. PAD would be required to keep all documentation relating to these activities for
inspection by IDA and for audit.
2.26        Special Accounts. To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account would be opened
by PAD, with an amount of up to US$1.2 million in the National Bank of Pakistan on terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA. This would be used for IDA's share of project expenditures
(equivalent to the requirement for about 4 months). The Special Account would be operated and
maintained by PAD and would be used for payments of all eligible foreign and local
expenditures. The Special Account would be replenished on a monthly basis or whenever 20% of
the account has been utilized, whichever occurs first.
Table 2.4: DISBURSEMENT BY CATEGORY
Expenditures Catego      Amount of Credit            % to be Financed
Allocation
(US$ million)
1. Civil Works expenditures       0.8                        90%
2. Goods and Equipment             8.2         100% of foreign expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures (ex factory) and
70% for other items procured locally
3. Consultants Services and       19.0                100% of expenditures
Training
4. Refinancing of Project          0.8                       100%
Preparation Facility
TOTAL                             28.8



- 17 -
111. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Assessment of Current Arrangements
3.1          PAD, which is presently responsible for most of governments' accounting functions
and for the external audit of government's financial transactions, has an established organization
and structure, including decentralized offices providing accounting, treasury functions and audit for
each of the federal and four provincial governments. Financial regulations and procedures are in
place. PAD has some experience of introducing and operating computerized financial systems,
although these have tended to automate the previously existing procedures rather than to amend
systems to introduce modern financial management. It has a network of training institutes. Staff in
PAD belong to the audit and accounts service, which is a recognized category (cadre) within the
Civil Service of Pakistan. These features provide a positive base from which to develop PAD's
capacity. Nevertheless, the detailed evaluation of current institutional arrangements for
government's fiscal reporting and auditing (para. 1.6) highlights weaknesses in the outputs from
existing financial systems. It identifies institutional constraints including the lack of arrangements
to ensure that systems respond to users' needs, the limited availability of staff with up-to-date
professional or technical skills, the lack of independence of audit from accounting, and poor human
resource management practices within PAD.
B. Addressing Institutional Constraints
3.2          The project scope and design addresses the institutional constraints through:
a)    initiating a gradual transfer of responsibility for accounting to the executive arm of
government, separate from audit;
b)    strengthening the capacity of PAD by developing an MIS Wing;
c)    encouraging greater use of private sector audit firms to augment PAD's skills;
e)    developing PAD's staff through improved HRM policies and training;
0     close involvement of users in project systems' design and coordination; and
g)    use of consultants for design and implementation technical assistance.
3.3          Separation of Audit and Accounts As a first step towards separation of the
audit and accounts functions, PAD has already initiated moves to bifurcate the two functions
under the Auditor General to such an extent that the eventual transfer of the accounting function
to the executive would not have any wide-ranging organizational implications. As part of the
bifurcation process it would be necessary for the Auditor General to ensure that essential internal
controls are in place and operating in the accounting wing. Following full implementation of this
bifurcation PAD would, by 1997/98, set up a task force to identify and address issues
(legal/regulatory, administrative and procedural) relating to the transfer of the accounting
function to the executive. Regulatory changes would be prepared as required, and the separation
would be planned to become effective from July 1, 2000 subject to government approval.
Agreement was obtained at negotiations that GOP shall prepare a plan for the separation of the



-18-
Auditor General's accounting and audit functions by July 1, 2000, and to achieve the separation
by that date, shall : (a) complete bifurcation of the audit and accounting functions by June 30,
1997; (b) complete detailed proposals for the functional separation of audit and accounting by
March 31, 1999; and (c) thereafter take all measures necessary to effect the separation of these
functions (para. 6.1).
3.4         Creation of an MIS Wing The project would strengthen PAD's capacity by
reorganizing the existing Computer Directorate and creating an Management Information Systems
(MIS) Wing, headed by a General Manager (MIS). The General Manager (MIS) would be a
computer professional, recruited externally on a project post for a period of up to 5 years. During
this period, PAD would attach officers to be trained to potentially take over this position by the
end of the project. The General Manager (MIS) would have the status of a Deputy Auditor
General, reporting to the Auditor General, with complete autonomy with respect to technical
issues.
3.5         There would be three sections in the MIS Wing each headed by a Director
General:
a)    a Standards and Policies Section would be responsible for defining and keeping
under review PAD's standards and policies with regard to information systems,
and also responsible for detailed technical aspects of any central acquisition of
hardware and software;
b)    a Systems Development Section which would be responsible for the development
and maintenance of the application systems with the assistance of consultants; and,
c)    an Implementation Section which would be responsible for the implementation of
developed systems and the day to day operations of the computer installations
around the country.
3.6         In the case of field offices, all personnel (including those responsible for day to
day field operations) would report within the field office structure, (i.e. to the DAO or AG),
except for a limited number of technical positions under the Director General Implementation,
responsible for providing technical support, but located at AG offices. A key factor in the overall
implementation strategy would be that the responsibility for implementation would be assigned
to an end-user support group formed at each AG office which would be headed by a Deputy
Accountant General and which would be dedicated to systems implementation. The end-user
support group would be trained by the technical team and would thereafter be responsible for
training all other personnel at the AG offices as well as at DAOs.
3.7         Involvement of the Private Sector Information about the project and its
proposed approach is being made widely available and comments sought from the accounting
profession in Pakistan. These comments have been incorporated in the project design. PAD has
proposed a phased strategy to initiate further private sector participation based upon:
a)    study of potential areas for greater private sector involvement, including
opportunities to reduce overlap and for more efficient use of audit resources, the



- 19-
scope for joint working between public and private sector auditors, and the
comparative advantages of each sector;
b)    pilot introduction of audits by private sector firms under amended procedures,
joint audits, staff exchanges, etc.;
c)    extension of trial public/private partnerships in government auditing, together
with preparation of revised operating procedures, manuals, and quality control
arrangements; and
d)    gradual expansion of the program as appropriate.
3.11        Human Resource Management To reflect its need for increased
professionalism and specialization, PAD would implement revised HRM policies including:
a) developing a structured career path for specialist staff including auditors and
accountants;
b) rotating staff on assignments in accordance with this career path and prior experience,
and assigning jobs for a nornal period of at least three years;
c) defining standard job descriptions for recruitment, deployment, training and
evaluation purposes;
d) enhancing the effectiveness of training, including requiring staff to be committed to
remaining in PAD prior to receiving entry-level training, and relating training more
closely to job descriptions and training needs assessments;
e) developing a system of quantifiable and transparent evaluation and evolving an open,
merit-based, promotion and reward system; and
f) detailed manpower planning.
3.12        Training Key initiatives aimed at increasing the professional competence of
PAD staff would include:
a) replacing the current eight month entry-level training for probationary officers with a
two year course;
b) substitution of the SAS examination for mid-level staff by that of the Association of
Accounting Technicians;
c) substantial reduction in promotion of unqualified candidates from mid-level grades,
and allowing direct-entry recruitment of individuals with appropriate MBA/graduate
qualifications, subject to accountancy examination success within a prescribed period;
d) training for officers due for promotion to B- 1 9;
e) encouragement for officers to acquire an accredited financial qualification; and
f) instituting a program of training for continuing professional education.
3.13         PAD is coordinating the proposed changes for its career officers with the Federal
Public Service Commission and the Establishment Division. In addition to developing and
delivering training for the above, PAD's training strategy would also address training needs
related to the implementation of the new working arrangements and procedures to be introduced
through the project. A third aspect of PAD's training strategy would be to extend financial



- 20 -
management training to include selected provincial and secretariat personnel within the circle of
beneficiaries.
3.14        User Involvement A Steering Committee has been formed to ensure user
involvement in the project and to perform the functions of interagency coordination.
Representatives from MOF, Economic Affairs Division, Planning Division, Pakistan Computer
Bureau, and all four Provinces will assist PAD to ensure that the financial accounting systems
developed by the project are responsive to user requirements and interests, that users' training
needs are met, and that systems and procedures relating to audit are effective. Other relevant
agencies would be co-opted as necessary. PAD would also coordinate with the Federal Public
Service Commission and the Establishment Division on aspects relating to the implementation of
its human resource management strategy. Users would be directly involved in the definition of
the financial reporting systems development, through consultation with the systems design
consultants. PAD would extend its training to include users from outside the department.



- 21 -
IV, PROJECT IMPLF.1CENATION
A. Orgaizations Responsible for the Project
4.1         The organizations responsible for implementation of sub-components of the
project are: PAD, MOF, and the Planning Commission. The aspects of the project relating to
government accounting and audit would be PAD's responsibility. MOF and the Planning
Commission would implement the component for strengthening economic management. The
institutional responsibilities for project implementation are shown below:
COMPONENT                                    AGENCIF.S
Govenment FinancialManame
Overall responsibility                       PAD (Project Director)
xovmment AAcounting
Overall responsibility                       PAD (CG (A))
Inter-agency coordination                    PAD (CG(A)) and Steering Committee
Core Government Financial Systems
Overall responsibility                       PAD (GM MIS)
Inter-agency coordination                    PAD (CG(A)) and Steering Committee
GQovemmentAudi
Overall responsibility                       PAD (DAG GA)
Tnstitutional Development and Proiect Pren-aration
Training                                     PAD (DG Training)
HRM                                          PAD (DG HRM)
Project Management                           PAD (PD/ DG R&D)
Future Project Preparation                   PAD (PD)
Advisory Services
Internal                                     Steering Committee
External                                     Panel of Experts
Other Policy Sport
Economic Policy Studies                      MOF
Assistance to Planning Commission            Planning Commission



- 22 -
4.2         Implementation arrangements in PAD are shown in Figure 1.
Figure 1: Implementation Arrangements in PAD
Auditor General
| Project |!
|Coordinato
DGot Aui   M(I)Controller General   DAG
|  AGA 
|AG Baloc         AG NWFP
B. Implementation Responsibilities
4.3         PAD's components of the project would be implemented by the sections within
the Department that are already responsible for the respective function, with suitable
strengthening as required. Hence, the Controller General (Accounts) would be responsible for
the accounting component. A new General Manager (MIS) would lead the computer systems
development as head of the MIS Wing. Since the bulk of the work related to information
systems development deals with the implementation of accounting systems, the Director General
(Implementation) who is part of the MIS Wing would have a dual reporting relationship and
would be functionally responsible to the Deputy Auditor General (Accounts & Payments) for
implementation. The Deputy Auditor General (Government Audit) would be responsible for
implementation of the audit component. The Director General of Training, head of the Audit and
Accounts Training Institute (AATI), based in Lahore and with regional offices in Balochistan
and NWFP, would be responsible for the training component. The Director General, Human
Resource Management, would be responsible for the HRM component.



- 23 -
4.4         For project administration and coordination purposes, the Controller General
(Accounts), the DAG (Government Audit), the General Manager (MIS), the Director General
(Training), and the DG (HRM) would report to the Project Director. The project director would
be assisted by the DG (R&D) as project coordinator and head of the Project Directorate. Initially,
the Auditor General would be the Project Director.
4.5         The Project Directorate, which is already established for project preparation,
would provide project coordination, administration and monitoring. It would have overall
responsibility for monitoring project costs, funds flow, adherence to schedules and quality of
work performed. It would receive monthly reports from heads of the units managing sub-
components from which it would prepare overall project summary progress reports. These
reports would summarize project expenditures by major project activities and category of
expenditure, report work progress relative to the major project milestones and performance
indicators, and would highlight any issues relevant to project progress. Summary reports would
be provided to the Bank on a quarterly basis. The Project Directorate would be assisted by a
local consultant, to provide backup services and peak-load facilities as required.
4.6         Agreement was obtained at negotiations that PAD would: (a) employ staff with
qualifications satisfactory to IDA in the key posts of Controller General (Accounts), Deputy
Auditor General (Government Audit), General Manager (MIS), Director General (HRM),
Director General (Training); (b) designate and maintain a Project Director satisfactory to IDA,
with overall responsibility for project implementation; (c) employ within the Project Directorate
a Project Coordinator and a Deputy Project Coordinator, with qualifications satisfactory to the
Association and other staff necessary for the carrying out of the Directorate's functions, and that
these key staff, subject to satisfactory performance, would be retained in post for a minimum of
three years (para. 6.1).
4.7         The MOF and the Planning Commission would set up project management
arrangements for managing the studies carried out and the short-term technical assistance provided
under their respective sub- components. Agreement was obtained at negotiations that MOF and the
Planning Commission would set up by December 31, 1996, project management arrangements
satisfactory to IDA for the studies carried out and the short-term technical assistance provided
under their respective components (para. 6.1).
C. Implementation Strategy
4.8         PAD's implementation strategy involves defining new standards for accounting and
auditing, which move closer to international standards, and introducing improved systems in a
phased manner with close involvement of end-users of financial reporting and auditing information.
The focus of development would first be upon accounting systems, although measures for the initial
strengthening of audit are also incorporated.
4.9         Accounting Standards and Financial Reporting  This activity to improve
financial reporting would define a modem set of accounting guidelines, including the introduction



- 24 -
of a double entry accounting model, and a set of policies and procedures for accounts payable,
revenues and liabilities recognition, foreign loans, suspense accounts and development projects,
and prepare a plan for implementation government-wide. It would also review the financial
reporting needs of government and broadly determine the content, timing and distribution of
financial reports. This work is a prerequisite for the commencement of the main information
systems development consultancy, and would need to precede the design and development of the
Core Information Systems. It would be undertaken by the systems development consultants, and
financed up to Credit effectiveness by PPF P916-0 PAK.
4.10         Core Information Systems As PAD's account keeping operations for federal and
provincial governments are conducted by its network of AG's offices, each supported by
DAOs/Treasuries, PAD has overall control of the process, which enables flexibility during
implementation. A factor affecting the implementation strategy is that all AG offices and several of
the larger DAOs are already operating computer-based systems, and therefore would face less
difficulty than a green field site in installing new software.
4.11  Accordingly, the core information systems will be implemented in a phased manner as
follows:
a) Phase I would cover requirements definition, functional and technical design,
specification and procurement of the hardware and software required for
implementation, with development centered at PAD's head office.
b) In Phase II, the systems would be implemented at the federal government's main
accounting office, the AGPR office in Islamabad, at the AG's office in Peshawar and
at two DAOs reporting to this AG which are already computerized. This is referred to
as the pilot implementation.
c) In Phase III the systems will be replicated over the course of this project to a total of
about 21 of the 95 sites, including all provincial AG offices, and selected DAOs
within each province. This would include maximum coverage in at least one
Province (presently identified as Sindh), referred to as the Province-wide system
replication. The remaining sites would be selected with a view to maximizing the
coverage of federal transactions.
4.12         For development of the applications software, the systems analysis and
comprehensive functional design would be carried out by consultants, who would also carry out a
search for suitable software packages. In the event of suitable packages being identified, the
consultants would prepare specifications for, assist procure and supervise an ICB turnkey contract
for acquisition and installation of the package, its customization, and acquisition and installation of
suitable hardware and operating software. In the event of no suitable package being identified, the
consultants would prepare specifications for, assist procure and supervise two contracts, one for the
development and testing of software, and another for the provision/installation of the hardware.
Supervision of implementation at about 12 sites (4 pilot sites and the first phase of replication -
about 8 sites) would also be the responsibility of the consultants selected for preparing the design.



- 25 -
The scope of work for the consultants is described in more detail in Annex 3. The project would
finance assistance from private firms for further replication of systems across the remaining sites.
The implementation schedule shows possible time savings of 6-9 months if suitable application
software packages could be identified.
4.13        Technology Strategy for PAD's Core Information Systems Computer systems
would, as far as possible, be designed to:
a) be open and portable to avoid becoming tied to a single supplier;
b) facilitate adaptability and updating; and
c) keep pace with emerging technology innovations.
4.14        The project envisages a distributed hardware arhitecture with computer
processing power located at the various nodes of the network (the AGPR office, AG offices,
and DAOs). Where facilities allow and data volumes justify, nodes would be connected via
telecommunications facilities. Alternatively, data transfer would be via diskettes. The
transaction processing and database management required at each node would be carried out by
the computer at that node. Summary or detailed data, as required, would be transmitted to the
computers located at the respective AG's office and AGPR in Islamabad. The advantage of such
an architecture is that it distributes computing power, commensurate with needs, to different
nodes of the network, thereby optimizing usage, and making it less vulnerable to malfunctions at
a single central site. In addition, end-users at provincial AG and DAOs would have better
control over their technology and data resources, strengthening systems' ownership. The size
and distribution of computing power across the various nodes of the network would be
determined by the volumes of data and transactions that are generated and stored, and the
volumes and frequencies of data transmitted. Information gathered from PAD has been used to
estimate the size and location of computers. This information would be progressively refined by
the consultants during the preparation phase of the project, by undertaking surveys to gather data
for each site.
4.15        The nature of the application systems requires that the application software be
able to run on small or large computers without major changes (scaleable) and be able to operate
on machines offered by several vendors (portable). The project proposes to use UNIX as the
operating systems environment since, in practice, this environment comes closest to an OPEN
systems environment and ensures a high degree of scalability and portability. In addition, the
application development environment chosen will use Fourth Generation Languages and
Relational Data Base Management Systems and associated development tools, Graphical User
Interfaces to increase application development productivity and offer a user friendly environment
for data access and usage.
4.16  Implications of large scale computerization on PAD staffing   PAD recognizes that a
department wide introduction of computer based information systems would have significant
implications for staff. Although PAD does not expect overall staff reductions, it does expect
significant staff reassignments, and based on its past experience with the introduction of



- 26 -
automated systems it appreciates the importance of appropriate manpower policies in order to
achieve successful implementation of change. Several aspects would be catered for:
a) the skills of staff who currently maintain the manual systems would be augmented so
that they are able to operate and maintain the new automated systems;
b) retraining or recruitment would provide for the jobs created related to the operation
and maintenance of the systems (both in the functional and the technical areas); and,
c) other staff would be re-trained and re-assigned, mostly to audit where additional staff
are required.
4.17        As part of this project, PAD are concurrently looking at the staffing and training/
re-training aspects under the HRM and training components respectively. An extensive training
program is envisaged for staff to enable them to operate and maintain the systems. In addition,
facilities for re-training would be created or augmented as part of the training component,
including training for reassignment.
4.18  Auditing Government plans to strengthen the legislative audit function, through the use
of consultants, within a conceptual framework comprising the following:
a) moving towards adopting international auditing standards developed by INTOSAI;
b) developing the principle of public accountability;
c) improving financial reporting and control systems;
d) enhancing the scope and independence of audit;
e) strengthening performance monitoring and evaluation capacity, through new
procedures and computerized audit tools;
f) increasing the competence and capacity of government auditors, including making
greater use of the private sector; and
g) building future capacity - through revised HRM procedures, international training in a
modem financial systems environment, and arranging attachments with other Supreme
Audit Institutions
4.19        In the move towards adoption of INTOSAI standards of auditing, PAD considers
that it has adequate powers in respect of performance auditing and reporting to the legislature. The
practice of PAD conducting performance audit has been in place since the early 1980s and resulting
audit reports have been considered by the Public Accounts Committees of the federal and
provincial legislatures. The executive and the legislature's support for performance audit indicates
that PAD's mandate in the area is not disputed. This gives a firm basis to start the process of
adoption of standards in the auditing area.
4.20        HEM  PAD recognizes that the project cannot be successfully executed and
sustained unless its human resources are efficiently deployed, are of substantially improved
quality, and are properly motivated. It would therefore implement an HRM policy designed to
raise the level of professional competence of staff, to institute a system of continuous
professional education, to provide a structured career path, to evolve a promotion and reward



- 27 -
policy based on open and quantified performance standards and a recognized merit system, and
to improve related management information systems.
4.21        Iraining The strategy for training addresses:
a) the needs arising from introduction of changes in accounting and audit procedures;
b) improving the quality of existing training (for example, relating training courses more
closely to training needs assessments) and training facilities;
c) expanding the circle of beneficiaries to include provincial staff and users in line
departments;
d) moving towards professionalism in training of government accountants and auditors
(for lower and higher levels of staff), and upgrading facilities.
4.22        The Audit and Accounts Training Institutes (AATI) would provide formal
training (for example, for accounting technicians and probationers), short courses, and provide
course material and backstopping for field office training. PAD would strengthen the AATI and
augment them by establishing Field Office Training Centers (FOTCs) at the larger accounting
offices to provide training in revised procedures, and basic computer skills. The component
would be implemented in the following sequence:
a) preparation for the Accounting Technician qualification, which can be accommodated
within the existing competence of the training faculty, updating existing training
materials, upgrading the capacity of faculty staff, through training, to prepare for
introducing the enhanced probationers training and retraining in revised procedures,
and training quality control measures;
b) introduction of Accounting Technicians training courses, training needs analysis,
course and materials preparation, and training of trainers for the enhanced
probationers and staff retraining courses, and renovation of facilities;
c) introduction of enhanced probationers and staff retraining courses, equipping of
computer training facilities, and initial annual impact evaluation.
4.23        Economic Management Agreed recommendations of the studies financed under
this component would be used to draw up an agenda for policy and/or institutional reforms in
specific areas. The strengthening of institutional capacities of and coordination between the
MOF and the Planning Commission in economic management is a long-term endeavor requiring
detailed diagnosis and follow-up to the 1993 Economy Commission recommendations. The
diagnostic study of the institutional arrangements for macroeconomic management would assess
options for strengthening capacity for the formulation of strategies on longer-term development
finance issues. The study would look at institutional, staffing and financing arrangements for
developing the government's forward planning and policy analysis capacity, including how to
better link the policy work required by Finance with the longer-term development planning
currently handled by the Planning Commission. It would also assess how to attract and retain the
highly skilled and experienced staff required, as well as the related training requirements. GOP
and IDA would jointly formulate action plans to implement the agreed recommendations of the
economic, financial policy, and diagnostic studies.



- 28 -
4.24        Implementation Plan The implementation strategy is reflected in the agreed
implementation plan (Annex 6). Agreement was obtained at negotiations that GOP would
implement the Project in accordance with the agreed implementation plan; and would by
January 31, 1997 and by each January 31 thereafter review and update the implementation plan
in consultation with the Association (para. 6. 1).
D. Status of Preparation
4.25        The Project is in an advanced state of preparation and hence proposed project
activities would commence without undue delay. Preparatory activities for the project, financed
by a Project Preparation Facility (P916-0 PAK), include:
a)   initiating the consultancy for developing accounting principles, standards and a
financial reporting framework to guide the detailed systems design;
b)    establishment of the MIS organization structure by appointment of a computer
professional as General Manager MIS and other key staff in the MIS wing;
c)    undertaking a training needs analysis for provincial government staff including
users of financial information, accountants and auditors;
d)   training for MOF, provincial and PAD's HRM, MIS and training institute staff;
e)    preparation of detailed designs and tender documents for civil works for site
preparation and training facility renovation works; and
f)    project management training and assistance with setting up project management
systems.
4.26        The project's Planning Commission Formn I (PC-1) has been approved by
ECNEC. Consultants are selected for the accounting standards and systems design consultancy.
(The scope of work is summarized in Annex 3.) It was agreed at negotiations that PAD's
appointment of the accounting standards and systems design consultants (and of IDA to issue its
no objection) would be a condition of Credit effectiveness (para. 6.2). The project management
directorate is in place and PAD is in the process of recruiting key technical personnel. It was
agreed at negotiations that appointment of the General Manager (MIS) to the satisfaction of IDA
would be a condition of Credit effectiveness (para. 6.2).
E. Project Sustainability
4.27        The sustainability of the project would largely depend upon project ownership and
commitment to project objectives. Ownership is strengthened as the project builds upon
initiatives already taken by PAD to computerize accounting. PAD has extensively discussed its
development strategy internally within the department, including with middle management, to
attempt to build a broadly based consensus. Under PAD's direction, project preparation has tried
to develop participation through thoroughly canvassing user needs, and the development strategy
has obtained the commitment of federal government and three of the four provincial
governments, who would be directly involved in guiding and monitoring the project through



- 29 -
membership of the Steering Committee. Participation in the project's implementation includes
Pakistan's professional accountancy bodies. Technology changes would be institutionalized
through recruitment of specialists, departmental reorganization and structured training.
Establishment of an MIS wing would provide the necessary technical skills for systems
development and maintenance. Staff to be involved in systems maintenance would be initially
associated with systems development. In areas such as information technology where PAD lacks
suitable skills, it would recruit technical staff required for the implementation of the project from
the open market. Human resource management policies would be amended to facilitate retaining
specialist skills and to make better use of trained staff, and further institutional support would be
arranged through training. Training would be extended to provinces and executive departments,
to provide the skills to better use the improved financial information, thereby reinforcing the
future demand for such data. It is recognized that systems operations will have an ongoing
impact on recurrent costs, estimated to amount to about $1.3 million equivalent per annum. This
will be provided for in the armual budget after the project is completed. Increased participation
of the private sector would also help ensure sustainability. PAD has confirmed its intentions to
involve private sector audit firms in the public sector,while remaining within the context of the
Auditor General's responsibilities under the Constitution. IDA has already recognized that
completing automation of all 95 sites will require a follow-up project, which will help further
institutionalize the changes introduced in this project.
F. Accounts and Audit
4.28 PAD, Planning Commission and MOF would maintain separate accounts for their
respective parts of the project, and would keep all the documentation including that for the
Statement of Expenditures. PAD would prepare consolidated project accounts annually. IDA
would require annual audit reports from external auditors (independent and suitably qualified) for
project accounts with a separate opinion on the Special Account and the Statement of
Expenditures. The Audit Reports would be submitted to the IDA within six months after the end
of a financial year. In order to assure transparency and independence, PAD has agreed that it
would engage a private sector audit firm for this purpose, subject to the concurrence of
government. PAD would prepare and submit to IDA within six months after the close of each
fiscal year fully audited consolidated project accounts including an auditor's opinion and report
for the project, SOEs and Special Accounts, undertaken by auditors satisfactory to IDA.
G. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.29  Significant performance indicators and project milestones (para. 2.10 and Annex 8) will be
used as a basis for monitoring and evaluating the project. A thorough mid-term review would be
incorporated to assess performance achieved, and to review the appropriateness and continuing
relevance of the project's design, including taking account of technology changes. PAD has
developed a project implementation management system to monitor progress. A summary of its
resulting implementation plan appears as Annex 6. Quarterly progress reports would be provided
to IDA. A mid-term review would be scheduled three years after credit effectiveness, to coincide



- 30 -
with the completion of the pilot implementation phase, would be conducted by PAD, Planning
Commission and MOF with IDA. Performance as assessed during the mid-term review would be
an important consideration for preparation of a future project. Agreement was obtained at
negotiations that PAD, MOF and Planning Commission would prepare, by April 30, 1999, a report
evaluating progress to date, including recommendations to enhance implementation of the project,
which would form the basis for a mid-term review by June 30, 1999 (para. 6.1). In addition to
Headquarters supervision for the project, the anticipated heavy supervision demands would be
internalized to the extent possible through use of consultancy firms to assist change management
and for institutional development.
4.30        A senior level panel of internationally-experienced experts would be constituted
to meet at least annually and advise the govermment on ways to continually enhance the project's
contribution towards achieving its vision for financial management and public accountability
(this panel would report to the steering committee). The panel of experts would comprise at least
three international experts, having among them expertise in Government Accounting,
Government Auditing, and Information Systems Development. Preference would be given to
officers serving in (or just retired from) Supreme Audit Institutions/ Govenmment Accounting
Organizations. The panel may also include two or three local counterpart experts. Agreement
was obtained at negotiations that PAD would establish by December 31, 1996 and retain during
the implementation of the project, an international panel of experts with membership and
responsibilities satisfactory to IDA (para. 6.1).
4.31        In view of the significant complexity of the project, Bank staff and consultant
supervision inputs are expected to be high and atypical as compared to average, but comparable to
other similar projects. It is estimated that the requirement will be in the range of 25-30 staff weeks
per year as indicated in the supervision plan attached at Annex 9. Supervision would include:
a)    general portfolio management - review of procurement and consultant contracting
documents, progress reports and correspondence;
b)   formal reviews - participation in the mid-term and other reviews; and
c)    participation in regular progress meetings (by local consultants);
d)   routine biannual supervision missions.
4.32        Two supervision missions would be necessary annually, each for a period of two
weeks on average. Supervision missions would normally require participation from the task
manager, auditing, accounting, human resource and information systems specialists. Supervision of
the policy support component would require participation from a macro economist. Total staff
inputs for these missions would be about 20 staff weeks per year. The proposed level of
supervision includes local as well as Headquarters inputs. The use of local consultants would
reduce the total costs of supervision. The continued high level of supervision towards the end of
the project reflects the timing of implementation of the pilot systems and their replication.



- 31 -
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. BENEFITS
5.1         Benefits would include improved, timely, accurate and consistent financial
information from the 21 automated sites to assist resource planning, cash management, budgeting,
management and control at provincial and federal levels of government, and improved fiscal
information flows for macro-economic management. The improved financial informnation would
assist Government in its efforts to complete fiscal adjustment. It would also provide a basis for
enhanced governance. The project would also set the stage for subsequent initiatives to improve
government financial reproting and auditing.
5.2         Basic accounting information underpinning financial management decisions would
be prepared according to enhanced accounting standards, thereby providing the basis for more
informed decision-making. Financial monitoring reports would be geared to users' needs, and
would incorporate information presently missing such as budget and variance information, and
details, by project, of development expenditure. This improved financial infornation would enable
strengthened management and monitoring of public expenditures, and hence assist improved
economic performance. Systems would provide the information required for cash flow forecasting,
thereby improving cash management and reducing the costs of short term borrowing.
5.3         Government financial management performance would benefit through
strengthened audit, by introducing modern audit techniques, reporting formats and quality controls.
Financial management skills within government would also be developed by training, by improved
human resource management policies, and by making greater use of the resources and capacity of
private audit firms. Such improvements in financial management would gradually increase the
effectiveness of public expenditures.
5.4         Governance would be assisted by the improved financial infornation and systems,
which would provide clearer linkages between budgeting, use of resources, internal controls and
accountability. The International Federation of Accountants considers that sound accounting is the
first line of good governance. As the project would address many of the weaknesses in the present
arrangements for government accounting, it would lay a stronger foundation for improved
governance. Greater capacity and independence of governments' external audit would enhance
transparency and accountability, thereby further assisting strengthened governance.
5.5        Assistance to MOF and the Planning Commission would enable the government to
better fulfill its redefined role by increasing capacity to formulate and monitor policies for
deepening macroeconomic and structural reforms, and by identifying the institutional changes
required for better coordination of such policies.



- 32 -
B. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
5.6         The following aspects of the project were selected from the range of possible
alternatives in order to achieve a cost effective solution to Governments' financial information
needs, and to provide a set of efficient and effective tools for public expenditure management:
a) the financial systems improvements would initially focus upon improving the quality
of accounting and financial information, thus strengthening the platform for existing
financial management and control procedures, and all subsequent improvements
thereto;
b) the project would address a major structural weakness in present arrangements by
separating functional responsibilities for accounting and audit, thereby creating
independence which would enhance the contribution of both functions to improved
public expenditure management;
c) the project includes measures to increase institutional capacity through amending
manpower policies, training, use of the private sector in areas of comparative
advantage, and technical assistance, to enhance the development impact of improved
financial information, and to ensure sustainability of the improved procedures;
d) financial systems would be prepared in the context of an overall information
architecture for government fiscal management, to ensure they are integrated amongst
themselves and with other Government systems, and to avoid overlapping or
duplication of functionality;
e) the technological approach proposed in the project, based on distributed, OPEN and
scaleable systems, strikes a balance between large mainframe systems which would
be cumbersome and expensive and other PC-based options (e.g. stand-alone PCs)
which could be under-powered and not scaleable to sites with a large number of
transactions; and
f) the phased implementation strategy of the computerized financial systems, restricting
the implementation to 21 out of a total 95 sites, is a prudent approach to managing
implementation risks.
5.7         The total cost of the project amounts to approximately 0.25% of annual public
expenditure in Pakistan. The benefits of even minor improvements to the efficiency,
effectiveness or management of public expenditure, which would arise from improved financial
information and control, would exceed project costs. The net development impact of the project
is therefore expected to be positive. The fiscal impact of the project's cost would be negligible.
C. RISKS
5.8         Due to the extent of change envisaged, this project should be considered as high
risk. Although identified risks and mitigating measures are summarized below, as the project
would address sensitive areas related to control and reporting of financial transactions, would
introduce structural changes within PAD, and would install new technology, reluctance and at times



- 33 -
even resistance to implementation should be anticipated to occur, and the full achievement of
objectives should therefore be considered uncertain.
5.9          The main categories of risk facing the project are:
a) Vested interests.  By improving the quality of financial systems and reporting, the
project would introduce controls which would affect those who benefit from
weaknesses in present arrangements. These interests may act to delay the project, or to
divert it from its objectives. The following would assist to manage this risk: (i) support
from those senior levels of government which do acknowledge the need to improve and
update governments' current financial systems; (ii) monitoring and guidance by a panel
of international experts - drawn from other Supreme Audit and Accounting Institutions
- to provide external perspectives and professional peer pressure; and (iii) the phased
and relatively gradual introduction of new systems, allowing a wider appreciation of
benefits to develop, enhancing ownership.
b) Resistance to change. Organizational risks include PAD's capacity for managing the
process of change, especially those aspects related to its union and staff concerns arising
from the introduction of new procedures, technology and the functional separation of
accounting and audit. The Auditor General understands the need for leadership, for
clear direction and for keeping staff fully informed and involved, to reduce these risks.
A change-management specialist would advise on processes and appropriate actions.
The Steering Committee, comprising key users of financial information, would assist to
ensure that end-users are fully involved and buy into the proposed changes. The project
includes extensive training and retraining opportunities for staff within and outside PAD
to prepare for change.
c) Technology development and operation.  Risks related to the development and
operation of computer-based financial information systems arise as staff have limited
technical skills and experience of technically more complex financial systems. These
risks are mitigated somewhat by the fact that PAD already has some prior experience of
developing and operating computer systems in its five Accountant Generals offices and
several District Accounts Offices. These offices would also face less difficulty in
installing new systems than a green-field site. The project also supports strengthening
PAD's capacity to manage technology by creating an MIS Wing, headed by a General
Manager recruited from the open market. Certain other key technical posts would also
be filled by local staff on contract terms. The development of new systems would be
under the control of internationally experienced consultants, with PAD staff involved in
development to prepare for eventually operating and maintaining the systems.
d)                _                 . Obtaining the benefits of improved technology
requires skills to control the quality of financial data inputs, and to apply the financial
information generated. The project includes three measures to address the risk of
inadequate skills. Changes to HRM policies, to provide a structured career path for
accounting and audit specialists, would underpin efforts for institutional development.



- 34 -
Upgrading of skills would be addressed by improved training, including for the users of
financial information, and consultants would provide technical assistance in specific
aspects. The project would support greater involvement of local private sector firns in
public sector financial management to further increase capacity.
e) Project management. The complexity of the project, and the likelihood of delays in
decision-making and implementation, increase project management risks. A committed
and stable team of senior management within PAD is considered a critical factor to deal
with this risk. Many of these key staff have been involved during project preparation,
thus developing ownership. Project conditionality limiting key staff transfers would
help to retain a stable team. There is an existing Project Directorate, with experience of
implementing a component of the Third Technical Assistance Project (Cr.1755-PAK)
and this project's preparation, which will be strengthened further and given logistical
support by consultants. Monitoring arrangements include a detailed implementation
plan, performance indicators and intensive supervision.
f) Policy Changes.  There is a risk that policy changes or revised administrative
arrangements could be introduced which would disrupt the project. To mitigate this
type of risk, the government has approved a vision statement for financial reporting and
auditing which is fully in line with project objectives. Two final risks are delays in
initiating the economic management studies and of weak commitment to implement the
policy and institutional changes recommended by them. To mitigate these risks, terms
of reference for key studies will be submitted prior to negotiations, and action plans for
implementing their recommendations will form part of the annual review and updating
of the project implementation plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.



- 35 -
VI,AGREEMIENTS REACHEDI
6.1           inn              the following were agreed with the GOP:
a) GOP shall prepare a plan for the separation of the Auditor General's accounting and
audit functions by July 1, 2000, and to achieve the separation by that date, shall: (i)
complete bifurcation of the audit and accounting functions by June 30, 1997; (ii)
complete detailed proposals for the functional separation of audit and accounting by
March 31, 1999; and (iii) thereafter take all measures necessary to effect the
separation of these functions. (para. 3.3);
b) PAD would: (i) employ staff with qualifications satisfactory to IDA in the key posts
of Controller General (Accounts), Deputy Auditor General (Government Audit),
General Manager (MIS), Director General (HRM), Director General (Training); (ii)
designate and maintain a Project Director satisfactory to IDA, with overall
responsibility for project implementation; (iii) employ within the Project Directorate a
Project Coordinator and a Deputy Project Coordinator, with qualifications satisfactory
to the Association and other staff necessary for the carrying out of the Directorate's
functions; and (iv) that these key staff, subject to satisfactory performance, would be
retained in post for a minimum of three years (para. 4.6);
c) MOF and the Planning Commission would set up by December 31, 1996, project
management arrangements satisfactory to IDA for the studies carried out and the short-
term technical assistance provided under their respective components (para. 4.7);
d) GOP would implement the Project in accordance with the agreed implementation
plan; and would by January 31, 1997 and by each January 31 thereafter review and
update the implementation plan in consultation with the Association (para. 4.24);
e) PAD, MOF and Planning Commission would prepare, by April 30, 1999, a report
evaluating progress to date, including recommendations to enhance implementation of
the project, which would form the basis for a mid-term review by June 30, 1999 (para.
4.29);
f) PAD would by December 1996, establish and retain an international panel of experts
with membership and responsibilities satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.30).
6.2         Before credit agrement effectiveness the following actions would be completed:
a) appointment of the accounting standards and systems design consultants (para. 4.26);
and,
b) appointment of the General Manager MIS (para. 4.26).



- 36 -
6.3        BRcmmndstion. On the basis of the above agreements, the proposed project is
suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR 20.1 million (US$28.8 million equivalent) to the Islamic
Republic of Pakistan.



AtNlEX I
Page I of 6
PkM
Prqoj klw buqwoVing Fhiancil Fbponr9i *al Aud^iung ii GCoerm et of Pakidtan
Compm         odS P_ect Cos fluiny
(PRM MElo)                                      (uss MEon)
%     %Tgtal                                  %      % Tola
Foi       E                                   ForeIgn   Obe
Local    Foreign      TOtW     Excange  Costs   Local   Foreign    Tota   Exucamge  Casts
A. Goermnmaen Accounting and Fiancia Raposting
A.na.ng and Plcy SLridafds                               13.524    10.350       23.874       43       2     0.392    0.300     0.692       43        2
Syshmns Develpnmen                                      160.806    240.084     400.892       60      34    4.661      6.959    11.620      60       34
SuhbStid                                                  174.332    250.434     424.766       59      36     5.053    7.259    12.312       59       36
B. Governet Audting
Audi Systnis inproveent                                 84.360     65.880      150.240       44      13    2.445      1.910    4.355       44       13
Syleun Develkqiqpn-i                                    23.853     54.560       78.413       70       7    0.691      1.581    2.273       70        7
subtl"                                                    108.213    120.440     228.653       53      19    3.137    3.491      6.628       53       19
C. MHama Resource Manageonr (HiRE)
Orgarmsrn.Ld Deipm len                                  15.674      3.002       18.676       16       2    0.454    0.087      0.541       16        2
System DevekOpank                                        7.717     18.060       25.777       70       2    0.224      0.523    0.747       70       2
Sublolal                                                  23.391     21.063       44.454       47       4     0.678    0.611     1.289       47       4
0. Tdr*uh
Prodssnum  rrainwg                                      20.604     34.042       54.f46       62       5    0.597    0.987      1.584       62       5
Sub PrlmiunAlI daiing                                   11.275      9.007       20.282       44       2    0.327    0.261      0.588       44       2
FacFies                                                104.033     28.559      132.593       22      11    3.015    0.828      3.843       22      11
Sdtbkdl                                                  13fi911     711N        207.520       35      18    3.939    2.076    6.015         35      18
E. Adis lralian
MSming                                                  91.503     21.815      113.318       19      10    2.652    0.632      3.285       19      10
Prnic Liredorale                                        55.070     11.729      66S799        18       6     1.596    0.340     1.936       18       6
PAD Office Audomnaion                                    9.886     26.446      36.333       73        3     0.287    0.767     1.053       73       3
S-Mbow                                                   156.460     59.990      216.450      28       16    4.535      1.739    6.274       28      18
F. 1bnh Pocy Support
Eauunuid PukLy SklaSh                                   19.320     17.871      37.191       48        3    0.560    0.518      1.078       48       3
Asaisl"uce go P-namg Coxrnmiesin                        11.592     10.723      22.315       48        2     0.336    0.311    0.647        48       2
Subtka                                                    30.912     28.594       59506       48        5    0.896    0.829      1.725       48       5
Total BASELINE COSTS                                      629.220    552.129    1.181.348      47      100    18.238    16.004   34.242      47      100
Physial Coiinjencies                                    16.531     15.637      32.168       49        3    0.479    0.453      0.932       49       3
Price C4x enawies                                      168.400    118.608     287.006       41       24     1.384    0.611     1.995       31       6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                       814.151    606.373    1.500.524      46     127   20.101    17.068   37.169        46      109



ANNFX I
hac 2.l16
i    p    Fi_             " U  M lin in G      6_  d P _036to
fmco            8, bYvo -   "Cl
Bas Co" FMm                                                        . C.a o3S  mm
3611111  Wm3                 am       411101   Om         Tomd      66*37    Wm7     Om           91I. 1111    Om 1    612     low
AL GW#.S    MACONWAW aM Fesedi bprn.g
AC                                                     183ar3P0A ,  I, D5 *4  4U-30     -                         23614    0.300    0252    0140             -        -        0652
S    w __                                              ISIIwakwinsi111,413  57.077    6ZCS1   2301  33SS4  0.920  4032    GAI46     1.664    1.16    6072    0964    0606   11620
_ubbom                                                  271W    65771    67461   2461          33294    206        424 M6    0.7D     16o      1956    6012    0964    060    12312
A.l,S         _   h                                        -    17.11    35.44S    3S.79    40.743    18320      150240        -   0517    1 an         I0    1.181    0560    4355
s,-  DM.,rn4g                                                   1111.169   2.33    SUN        UN9      6391       78L413       -    0.324    0069    1.564    0156    0156    2273
s*0d9                                                             2901i    3IL       11s0.501    4S134    24711    226.613            0841    1.110    2623    1 337    0716    662
C. Ihea U.emwc* U        96p35"Po
O     __         _                                      7-745    2164      2.164    2.164     2.164    2276       16676    0224    003    0053    0063    0063    0066    0541
-     1159    11735    18726      107I        16      25717         -   0034    0340    0311    0031    0031    0747
'   7745      3323    1330      12110     3242      1354      44454    0224   O009       0403    0374    0094    0097    1268
D. T _ 
ra sei."     _                                         166W     14616    12117      5639      4352     0638       54646    0484    0429    0351    0169    0126    0004    1564
Sub S-_-^; INLA4361    10.617    ISo                                                1.611     1613         -      20262    0123    0310    0048    0049    0(64           -   0646
F~,s                                                   36.214    22.625    27.241    33016    7.305    7.105     132.5W3    061    0656    0.790    1102    0.214    0206    3643
6S1.217    43127    41.044   4535    11611      7.11      207.520    1.45    1.395        190    1320    0395    0.230    601S
"MV05V                                                ias0      32 916    19567    1517    14757        1427     111318    0.523    094    0.566    056       0426    0244    3265
f       gpUma aa                                      11245     7m3       7.113    2e36     8765      6L27       6s.7s    o32.    0227    0227    0.604    0263    0269    1.3B
PA   D:                                                    -    4353       7962     67"      3447      5692       30.333       -   0.125    0232    0253    0274    01609    1053
111                                                     24             3451  35412    49142    38W0    235S36      216.450     3      1.307 '  1       1424    os0s    0669    6274
F. 0 Po"p Supoad
Em     p Pokey_ _                                                7.43      7436     7436      7436     7435       37.191       -   0216    0216    0216    0216    0216    1076
AssanceiPLwd   Cumm                                        -    22315         -                  -         -      22.316       -   0647                 -        -        -   0647
-    23.S9     7.43 1     .436    7.6T      7.439     56           -   9.662    0.216   0.216    0216    0216    1726
T     ammcoiTS                                          11S47    221.Z 6   2m&Si    414135   1363B    S7J4    I.t8t.346    1347    S,410    590    12.W9    4010    Z547   34242
P lC_6bV-                                               711      31Q      53       lil       1663      1354       32 US    0611    0.162    0.t      0.440    8103    00W     GM3
Local4546    16204    3036                                                     4S.6      32.04    27.316     15223       132    0530    OW       1322    09Q3    0792    4.516
F_mn                                                0614     4f45      4S91     63S9      1770     8673       210W2    &018    0123    0146    016S    010    002S    O611
S     _ _"MbdLibm                                     S.1510    22733    3636I    51.9S5    35Q84    2Q1t3    179235    0150    0.65     1.S    1.507   1G3C    DS17    SIW
owedrnm                                               2.21Z    11C3    1416      57=       143S      7.6       10.713   4.M    4317   4555   4.913    0696    4636   -3M20
PlwA C.gmacs                                            7.434    34.43    49.511   US3231    Se1   36.11         26705     8056G  0343    0470    05S4    0 343    0179    1.96S
Tmr.oSTSrcvsi                                           123121   25D952   25 SW    539.5t5  tSZO    127.303        .OSD524    1434    663    am       13063    i 457    2S23   37.11
TOWN                                                  42          am      7.O0    51254      1.31      8613      724721    am       0213   0Ga       1241    1iLO4    a0      I.7
F _ebp g1S3 U                                                   27.562    m5s4   266D    GRAM         38743      _D        1.690    1.374    2515    7.23D    1.62    OLM     IG 1III



ANNEX I
age3ofr6
Pakistan -
Pro lot Ior Iroving Fminaial Reporting and ALidting in Govefrmlent of Pakislat
Project Conipoiteitts by Year -- Tota ls icluditig Contingencies
Totals Including Conlingencies IPRS Million)                         Totals Including Conxtingencies (USS Million)
-9617     97198      W99       S9/00      00101      01102       Total     96197   97199    OW19    991/00    00/01    01/02    Total
A. Government Accounting and Financial Reporting
Accounbi PlicyStanddads                                  10.800     10.188     6.084          -                    -       27.072    0.300   0.270    0.154                               0723
Systems D)v.aogutldl                                     17.971    67.234     81.991    271.277    45 627     28.084      512.184    0 499    1.779    2.070   6.568    1.059   0.623    12 598
Subtotal                                                   28.771    77.422     88.075    271.277    45.627     28.084      539.256    0.799    2048    2.224    6568    1 059    0623    13321
B. Govenuttent Auditinag
Auysat SnysMInV kileill                                       -    20545      44.153     49103     58053      29769       201 623       -   0544    1115       1.189    1347    0660      4854
SySkin; DIWI:h.lHWatI                                              13430       3.898     67.529      6C09      6841        98372             0355    0098      1 635    0155    0152     2395
Subk,jl                                                         -    33981      48051    11G.632     64722      3GG09       2J999G        -   0899    1213       2824    1 502   0812       7250       '
C. Hurnitn Mesuu. .c MAii.agewne.it HRU)
IgS eJlUk.W 0        bl                                   8.194     2.536      2.726      2.919     3120       3.469       22.964    0228    0.067    0.069    0071    0072    0077      0.584
Syslems Devedpognent                                          -     1.358     15.193     13.508     1.334      1.368       32.759           0 O036   0.384     0.327    0.031    0030    0.808
Subtoul                                                     8.194     3.894     17.919     18425      4 454      4.837       55.723    0.228   0.103    0 452    0.398    0103    0107      1.391
0. TraIing
Potlsaomin .aa.101                                       17.757    17.134     15.002      7.818     6211       1.279       65.190    0.493   0.453    0379     0.189    0144    0028      1.687
SubProkesiuaw l.aungll                                   4.624    12.287      2.116      2.260     2.701                  23.995    0.128   0.325    0.053    0055    0063              0624
Feokees                                                  32.864    27.170     34.521     50.243    10.541     10.638      165.997    0913    0.719    0.872    1.217   0.245    0.236    4.201
Suboal                                                     55.285    56.591     51.639     80.325    19.453     11.917      255.191    1.535    1.497    1.304   1.461    0451    0.264    6513
E. Adminiatration
..usMi                                                   19.489    38489      24.558     26.218    20.982     12589       142325    0.541    1.018   0620      0635    0.487    0279     3.581
Proed Darectracte                                        11902      9175       9.855     27.852    14055      14.252      87091    0.331    0243    0249       0.674    0326    0316     2139
PAD OfIe AuatMa,on                                           ,      5.009      9.606     10.871    12.202      7.690      45.377        -   0133    0.243      0.263   02283    0.170    1092
subu"                                                      31.390    52.673     44.019    84.942     47.239     34531       274.793    0872    1.393    1.112    1.572    1 096   0.768    6811
F. Other Poky Support
Econonrs,lePySlu.Jsb                                                8 8.623    9.260     9.904     10.585     11.325      49.697            0.228    0.234    0.240   0.246    0251      1.198
Assiance o  Plwaaiwj w.uainission                             -    25.868               -               -                 25 888        -   0.684        -        -        -       -    0.684
Subtotal                                                        -    34491       9.260      9.904    10.585     11325       75.585        -   0912    0234       0240    0.246    0251     1883
Totl PROJECT COSTS                                        123.621    259.052    258.963    539.505    192.080    127.303    1.500.524   3.434    6.853   8.539    13.063    4.457    2.823    37.169
311196



Pagc 4 of6
P60
Pfqed k. h k  ft Fwa        _ R dw MWAWn  _ _AWM d PA
D            _.df               S"W- D _      D     _    Dev_           *Xu.        P=f. we       F-W      -W3 V"    Dw-6"                             C      b.w    TOWa    fw    -xn
L _b-_.k- C.M.s
c.  t . " ."w                -         0241                    eol2               -        00ss             -            -          -    4131             - ~       ~     ~ ~          ~       ~~~~ ~~~~ 027  -  273    100   0027
H_n                         -                ~~~        ~      ~      ~~~           ~           ~~~~~~~ ~~~ ~~02 1  "  Geels           a0273     Q Mz                                                   0 144    100    007^
One-F F.r. & EuLv-                      *                      3 1         -          0.148          -A                               010--I135 04036                        a 020                  -                     -I7611
C _.W  HMO-, .-
fiebw S-   ..                                      -        i350                     1.574              -           574                              0689    a 338         a021       0800                           74S5      S 0   0 37S
V                                                   --                                   --                        -                                                -        O 051         -                               0SI
_.A                                                   -          a  c"s                O722                                     0036                     I 190    0373        0 100       00 "C                          9 *434    4 0   0 175
o                                                   -:                   2M-                                        ----                                                                                              2016
C__el P-l                                                                                                                                                       1211                                                   1211
S_|B.bk*                                                      low         2016                                          _123 0 _                                                _0130                __ m                            
6_6b"" w-k                                      *It12        3on          IS1}           -            491        fa4          92            *4 -m                   -*"S
rwS*_                               2f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4`12  h4.4  1613                    649;         JB34         42            0.334                           9 40S                 1.078       064T    top-             _
L Ila"
ITo.v"     _-                                                            so                                                   a -     @70                                                                              I ----- in
T_uWAO.                                             IDIR        103          4.2     u o4111             "          4           1.oe          .3U0      2.100    2142        0715         .00  I X76  OU47 281S0   22 0417
A  _SN.   -am--     -  -   *1                                                                                                                                                3 0 7/2                                     G AS
a _.NM                                                         1.31                     84f                        SA                                    a777s oWX            0 036      0253                            3.151    10 0   9316
D    _b~      C~'   &C*-b .                           --                       -           ---                                  0120        0*224        *0 5o-               Q^35                                       1 245
11dM.-  , Ce b                                                   1.t312          -       a -5                        0 OS         0.120        0.224       1 U5    0 U3T        1 201      0 253             -               082  *    2 _0o315
TedBSaL4rCOSTS                                      0012         so82 an        35        2 2n           OUI4        0 77          15664        05|8       3443     3.2SS        1.96       1.OSX     1078        0U7    1U 22       2 7   OS322
Pb wCft".'                                                      .4n                     '134                       ^ '4 13'    0.051                                        *OOS9      *065                           oSX2
rnse C__aw9x
L-A                                          *Ge0          106S        0954        00"7           0 10        Goss          a 155        0.070      0637    0717         0 481          -      a 197       oos      sr 45
"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~03 -                              16 els                    0020  eoo      ooil      oos          0012        ooall    0 002       onl1           -         0050    ool      OS 0II
5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 ago0                        12,,        $ft         Doou           0.111        Dow0         0 201        a0F         ouZ 0 4  0719        0512           -        024      0 0*     5 197
D w                                ~~~~ ~ ~~~~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~4018  081 M OUS6  007S        40Um        408 Ole        o07         Oo 0S      4429    04^74        40314      .0.027    40127        401a   .3202
S fseP..C~V                                          s           2         aos        401i           104^2       *021          eso          *0s7 Gal     ns1    02 5         OIS 49 0027          0 120      a*01      1 119     0 3   0o0o
TrdrPAcIc l COT*m                                               1.SU          *49         2M             as"         GM           I.64         *624        4.201    *asl        2 17      1S2         1.11       *U       37 I"      2 5   e ra
Taft                                                           *7750340                                            4.125        * 04             -      0.2U      *.974       |S        9.1@          -                      111  4 2    0075
famf.dm                                           0200         1.4s        2074         11s            0.0-        ssn          1032         027S3        ff eas  .02         oun        Gall      esos4       Din      17.2      2 7   o na
.   .  :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iIA



ANNEXI
Pagc 5 of'
Prpd lx kiWrovng Fdwns Rpo"g nd AuSag In Govesnhnwl of Palusin
Expenditure Accounts by Componnls - Totals Including Contingences
fUSS MAn)
Govenment Accounting and                                                                                                                             Olher Policy Suppon
FIancial Reponing       GoeWnmnent Audutmg    Humnn Resource Managemnt1          framing
Accounting                 Audit                    (HRM)                                    Sub               Admn.istralton                     Econo-ic  Assistance
and Polcy    Systlem      Systems     Systeni    Organisatinal   Systes   Profesionai  Pfelssiona                            Project   PAD Oicfe   PoWliy    to Planning
Standaids  DOx_iopunt bnl ro ment Eleop nemi   t)Oetopmc.i   Deopmen t n      Tainmg       T-ue i      Faciliies  MIS Wing  Diecltrat.  Auointion  Studies  Con...ssion   T1al
I Macstwm Csts
A ViWks
Co5t  Si iPicyain                                 -        0269            -       0096                        0200                          -          -    O I 51                                                 0 56
Renooason                                               -                               - --                                                        0322         -                                                  0 322
Suslls                                             -         0.29            -       0                  -        0020            -             -      0322    0151             -                     -           -    Bu
8 Goads
0xcaFumdtss&Eipn*T                               -         0435                    0165                        0033                   -             1216    0038          0030                                 -    1il6
PuiccsAhsSuh.-c                                           3i875           -       16 -i                      066             -                    0725    0354          0022       0840          -                7SiI
Veaks                                             -        1-              -           -              -                                                 -                 0053                    a-           -     003
jel* .                                           -            -                                                            0a 09004                              -           -                    -                 0133
1S&6                                               -         4 110           -       1 t3               -       0             0 039                   2 034    0 392       0105         640                          10 012        ,
C Sentes                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -
,c eat.ob  -j                                              2 03ft                                                  -                 -                           -           -                                      2 036
AssI.cvo                                         -             -       2 303                                                    -                 -              -                                                  2303
Cu_aii5                                          -            -            -           -              -           -            -            -           -    I419-                                                  1 419
A*stw rl                                                       -           -           -              --                                                -        -       0 142                    --                 142
Sola                                               -         2093        2.3             -              -           -            -            -           -    1419        0142                                9- 504
D. lecIca Assitance
wneu AiMOA.uslw                               0.303        0171            -           -              -           -            --                       -                0450                    I-                  529
mzauls.V.u .l aoiool                          0120         4065        1644            -          0536        0036         0310          0349                                                                       w060
Pi"scySugigisit                                  -            -           -           -               -           -            -  -                        -                                   1.126      0681114   16 3
.aot                                            0423         4150        1.644                      053         0.036        0310         0349           -         -       0.450                I I98      o84    10491
C. Tuing
TiasyoigOcoosca                                  --                    0S4                                        -        0820                                                                                     1 720
TrMOgLeOaly                                      -            -           -           -               -           -        0262             -          -    ObQ                       -                -          0 8e
sosal                                              -                     090                                  -               1102                       -    0606             -                                      2616
F Flehrameg ofPPF                               0300            -           -           -           0046            -        0100          0029       0011     0204        0096                                      0792
TOWilsnssunsCols                                0o7m         11.290       4684        1931           0.564       0715          1552        0.376       2371     2.772       0793       0640      119t        0664    306S94
L Racuinoe Cost
A bic---da                                         -                                     -              -                                                      a  0595     0359                -          -          0955
a  i_ ar                                                     I 31300                 0464                       0093             -            -       0687     0213        0043       0252                           3252
C Lii-a Lin-                                                                                                                     -            -       0 70         -                      -               -          O 7D
I-                                                                                                                           u 135        0 247       0 073       -        0 943                    -                1 3W
tal ews,ui.                                                    1 390                   0464                       0093         0131         0247        1 630    0il0        1346       0252                           6 475
hoaPROJI.I LU5tS                                 o01m         12566        46054       2 395          0564        0608          1687         0624       4201     3581        2139        1092      I t        048    371N6
Tsies                                              -         0775           -        0349               -       0128         0004                    0264      0074        0025       0i86          -                 1711
Fina. Gange                                     0300         7.406       2.074       161            o.on        0172          1032        0273       0a66      0662        0372       0611      0566        0.325   1i0o
sbaes kg" Oet
31196



ANNE 
Page 6 of 6
PrOja kw kivWnng Famt  RtaPM NW Asig na Govaninuat d Paalan
Componntus by Ftuancla
(PRS 3WOn)                                                                              JUSS ftion)
Oa'aanuuut u8                                                                 Local tovna11 ci Ldocal
Pakistan             IDA                   Total                           (EacL    Duts & Pakistan             IDA               Total              Foat     (Eci.   Dautas
Amount      %       Amount       %       Amount       %      For. Each.   Toots)    Taoes   Amnount    %      Amount    7        Amount    V.       Each.   laes)    la.*e
A Goastnersl A;ountg a.ndt fmanciul Repotding
AutgaW  Pa.iySIu-,u.ds                                                         27072    1000        27.072      1.8      0800      16272                 -              0723    1000      0723       19     0300      0423
SySIta r t9lpas                                          8lo9       174       42298t     8t26      512 1N4    341      299651   120544    31990    2103         167    10.495    8133    12598      339      7405      4419      0775
ShLad                                                      so81998    165       450.057    835       539256      359     310451    106816    31.90    2103        258    11218      84.2   13321      358      7705      48t42    0775
e Goenmew.n AudWitag
A,.e:.y,i   1Ii4.    -I                                    i 0o00             :01 t23    1t000     201 623     34      b4 344    II 275              0 000              4b54    1000      4 554     2J I    20/4      2 /bO
S, s e.3lc c,u-                                          34 WI   35 1        63 812    64 9        98 372     6 6      69 262     14 t3    24141    0 523      34 3     573     65 7     2395      6 4     1 622     0 J6     0 349
Ssblotu                                                    3456      II5     265435    955         29999%     200       15360     1323242    14147    0623      213     6427      697      7250      19S     376S      312       0349
C. Hsenai  euto           i listS)
Ortatasaa3 W-k'eWle                                           -                22.964   tOO        22.964      15       3636      9326          -       -             0.564    200r0     0584       16     0093     0491
Sysfrttiedons, l                                         9257      28.3      23502      171        32.759     22       23.233      4351      5175    0223      276     0 585     72.4    0808       22      0572     0107      0128
SbutoLaa                                                    9257      261       46466      834        55 723     3.7      26t871     23677      5175    0223      160      1 168    8 0      1391      3 7     0665      0 598    0 128
0. Traemtn
Pwless.wultI a.-                                          5754       88       59445      912        65219      43       39256      25.802     0141    0139      8i2      1548     918      1687      45      1032     0651      0004
SubPvo.-c.na RJIa.:                                       986      41.1       14.134    589        23995       16      10319      13676         -   0.247      385     0378      805      0624      1 7     0273     0352
FacAas                                                   85.35     51.4        059    46.6        165917     1121      36037    129566    10394    2 126       50.6    2.075     494      4201    213    o08         3049      0264
S.MNA                                                     101.013     386       154176    60t4       256.191    270       65612    159.045    10535    2522       386     4002      624      6.513    175      2194     4051      026i
E. AdAllreaon
Ass V5no                                                 36.822     257       105.704    74.3      142.325     9.5      25031    114.456     2110    08t96      251     2U83      749      3.58     96      0662     28t44     0074
P lqd raO'te                                             5625i     848        30.833     354        87.091     5S       15306      70895     0891    1.371      641     0768      359     2139       56     0372      1741      0025
PAD OLCOsA~6lIa1.                                        17777     390       27.700     610        45377      30       33649       4803     6925    0420       3it5    0672      6I 5    2092       2.9     0all    0113       0168
subiwal                                                   110558      402       164237     598       274.7      16.3      73988    190.1i4    10624    288U       3.95    4 123      05    68812      83      284      4868      0267
F. Der  Poay SuppoRt
Ecorro Ps   S4".,                                         0eo0                49897    2000         4.9697     33       23564      26133                                1 2296    100 0   2 196      3 2    0 S       0630         -
A.Ustar- o  P . .  _    c.                                                    25 86     200.0       25 96      17       12 284     13 514        .                      0 684    100 0    0 664      1 8    0 325    0 359
61blotal                                                    0000       7-5565    000                 75.565     50       35384      3971         -        -             3 83    1000      2683      0      0893      0990
Tot4aDl s wyne                                             344 5i6    23.0    1.155 93i    77 0     1500.524    100.0    6n 373    741 680    72 471   8 349     22 5    28.820    77 5    37 1689    00 0    17 0U t8 3135      1 78
3(2: 96



43
ANNEJX 
Page I of I
PAKISTAN
IMPROVEMENT TO FINANCIAL REPORTING AND AUDITING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
'GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN
VISION STATEMENT FOR FrNANCIAL REPORTING AND AUDITING
Draft Prepared by PAD
1.       As Pakistan proceeds to open up its economy and free it from regulatory controls, the
need for good governance and modem financial management becomes paramount. Instead of direct
intervention, the Government has to design appropriate fiscal and monetary responses to changing
conditions, while in the context of a global economy, issues of transparency and accountabilitv
have become even more important. In this environment, the synergy of greater public-private sector
partnership has to be eXploited to accelerate and enhance the development process.
2.        The effectiveness and credibility of government policies is critically dependent on the
availability of timely and accurate financial and management information, the existence of a cadre
of competent professionals in the public and private sectors, a framework of financial and
accounting principles and procedures designed according to internationally accepted standards, and
a system of public accountability that includes a strong and independent legislative audit function.
3.        As part of its vision the Governnent intends to separate its accounting and auditing
functions and re-engineer its economic and financial management function to include as key
elements of its strategy:
-  a modem accounting system designed according to internationally recognized accounting
principles and standards, functioning under the Executive, and based on modem information
technology to ensure ready availability of relevant, accurate and timely information required by
managers;
- a governance structure and legal framework consistent with international standards for an
independent comprehensive audit function which supports public accountability by timely
reporting to the legislature for effective and appropriate action;
- increasing professionalization of the elements of its civil services which deal wvith financial and
economic management, requiring key competencies in staff training and appropriate human
resource management policies emphasizing performnance, experience and knowledge:
- increasing partnership between the private and public sectors in their respective areas of
conmparaLtive advantage: and.
-  adoptiLn improved standards for private sector linancial disclosure.
This drUiIltx rsion staternenL mtould be counlrined byv he Go%crnment at projeci negotiations



44
ANNIEX3
Page I of 2
PAKISTAN
IMPROVEMFNT TO FINANCIAL REPORTING AND AUDITING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SCOPE OF WORK FOR ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS CONSULTANTS
The project will finance consultancies. computer hardware, software and training
required for the preparation of revised accounting standards and reporting framework, and the
design, development and implementation of elected high priority financial application systems at
selected sites. These application systems include a Core Accounting and Reporting System, a
Payroll and Pension System and a Cash Forecasting System.
2.           The first phase of the systems consultancy would thus be directed towards the
following objectives:
a) revision of accounting principles and standards to meet, as far as considered practicable,
with International Accounting Standards:
b) revision of the financial reporting and accounts classification;
c) reclassification of the chart of accounts to closely reflect users' financial needs;
d) definition of reporting responsibilities between PAD and executive agencies;
e) definition of key information for trend analvsis of expenditure and revenue, and cash flow
forecasting systems; and
f) establishment of procedures for coordination and integration of all financial information.
Particular attention would be given to PAD's requirements for receiving financial
infornation from other departments/agencies to feed into the accounting and reporting
system, enabling PAD to produce reports which fulfill the financial information needs of
the government (and particularly the MOF) completely.
3.           The scope of work for the remaining phases of the Information Systems
Consultants would include:
a) Preparation of the detailed functional design for the specified svstems: This would
include: i) analysis of the functional processes including administrative procedures,
transaction documents. forms and information flows, data flow statistics, related to the
accounting and reporting, payroll. pension and cash management areas currently in use
and/or recommended by the project consultancies; ii) developing and defining a new
set of functional processes, informnation flows, procedures. transaction types and
associated documents and torms. and related structures required to set up the new
sy stemis: aLnd iii) developing, a full ftrncLiotial design for the computer svstems required.
including tlle specitication ot the outputs reports. the input formats. transaction
Llocurnents. processini ancd controls for the systems required at various nodes of the
intormatioii tlow network. the interfaces Lnd data flows between these nodes and with
external svstems.



45
ANNEX'
Page 2 of 2
b) Specification of the technologzy architecture required for the implementation of these
systems: Thlis activity would include the development of specifications for the H/W
and S/W to be installed at the various nodes and the mode of interconnection of this
l-lardware and Software.
c) lnvestigation of altematives for application software: This would entail investigating
and ascertaining whether one or more off the shelf software packages are available
which can meet the functional requirements of one or more of the systems, as defined
above.
d) Procurement of H/W and S/W: Project consultants will incorporate the Hardware and
Software specifications into an RFP for procurement, develop criteria for the evaluation
of vendor proposals; assist the govemment in the tendering process, in evaluating
vendor proposals, in the acquisition of the hardware and software, monitoring the
installation and carrying out qualitv assurance during the testing of the hardware and
software procured for the project. In the event of a suitable package being identified,
project consultants would develop terms of reference for a turn key project for
acquisition and installation of the package (including any customization required) and
acquisition and installation of suitable hardware and software using International
Competitive Bidding (ICB). In the event of no suitable package being identified, the
hardware and svstems software would be acquired through intemational competitive
bidding and the development of the software and related documentation would be
contracted out to a local software house. In both cases the supervision of the software
customization/ development and implementation of the systems at the first few (4-5)
sites would be the responsibility of the consultants selected for preparing the systems
design.
e) Svstems implementation: The Core information systems defined above will be
implemented in a phased manner. In the first phase the systems will be implemented at
the AGPR Head Office, at an Accountant General's (AG) Office at a provincial
headquarters, and at two District Accounts offices (DAOs) reporting to this AG. This is
referred to as the Pilot implementation. In the second phase the systems will be
replicated over the course of this project to a total of 21 sites including all Provincial
AG offices in Sindh. Punjab, NWFP and Baluchistan, and selected DAOs within each
province. Systems implementation wvill involve: (i) preparation of an implementation
schedule, (ii) installation and testing of the hardware and systems software. DBMS, and
Application Development tools etc.; (iii) installation and testing of the application
systems and training end users; and (iv) preparation of related technical and end user
documentation. Replication of the system would involve preparation of a replication
plan and schedule for the system for all designated sites. including a check list detailing
tasks that need to be unldertaken for replication of the system at  , tepical provincial or
district sitc. %%orkiin closelv with the H.-W. S/W venidor to ensure that the replications
aire operauional and training of sufficiellt :ocal staff capable of carrying out subsequent
replicatiolls.



46
ANNEX 4
Page I of 5
PAKISTAN
IMPROVEMENT TO FINANCIAL REPORTING AND AUDITING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INFORMATION SYSTEMS ARCHITECTURE FOR GOVERNMENT FISCAL MANAGEMENT
A.    Information Systems Architecture
1.           Figure I shows the overall Inforrnation Systems Architecture for Government Fiscal
Management in Pakistan. This architecture showvs the major functional processes required to be
carried out as part of government fiscal management. the agencies associated with these processes,
the complete suite of information systems required by these agencies to perform these functions and
the major data flows between the systems. The high priority information systems. identified by the
diagnostic consultancv as being critical for the governments financial information needs are
indicated by the shaded boxes in this diagram. A brief description of these application systems
which have been selected for implementation under this project is given below.
a)    Core Accounting and Reporting System: The Core Accounting and Reporting System will
provide an integrated government wide accounting function and will encompass the
functional requirements for the budget execution and accounting processes and would cover
the appropriation, commitment, funds allocation, and payment processes for both the
investment and current budgets.
This system would be the core financial management inforrnation svstem of the
Government of Pakistan. It will be used by: i) the Pakistan Audit Department (including
its subordinate units) to perform the basic accounting functions: ii) the Federal Ministry of
Finance and the Provincial Finance Departments to perform the processes associated with
budget execution, monitoring and control: iii) the Ministry of Finance to provide the
information it requires for cash management and to implement cash limits, as may be
required; and iv) the Federal Planning Division and the Provincial Planning Departments to
obtain the status of actual expenditures on ongoing programs and projects.
The information contained in the system data bases would provide the MOF and other core
financial agencies a foundation for a comprehensive management information related to the
country's financial resources. The information contained in the data bases would be
available to other governmnent agencies on an as required/approved basis. In addition, the
system would provide useful financial information to the ministries, spending units (in their
respective areas) to enable them to better manage their work programs. It will give these
departments the facilities to down load relevant and authorized data and perform required
analy ses.
1he system x \il[ be desiunied in accordance with internationally accepted accountings
principles and standards it will be based on a double entrv accounting model. Such a
svstem would need to be comprehensive in terms of coverage and be a source of reliable
and timelv data to become a credible source ot inforrnation for users. The Core Accounting



47
ANNEX4
Page 2 of 3
System will therefore be a ftillly automated system. with data captured only once as an
accounting transaction progresses throughl tile system. This system, introduced along with a
modem budget classification system and aln appropriate chart of accounts, would enable
expenditures and revenues to be recorded at a detailed level and related to specific programs
and projects.  Data recorded at this level will then be directly available for use bv
arencies/spending units for program and project management. This data will also be easily
amenable to cross classification for financial and economic analyses. The introduction of
an automated accounting system would ensure completeness of data capture (that is no
transaction would be processed outside the svstem) and rigorous application of all relevant
financial controls to all transactions processed by the system.
The System would have interfaces with external data sources on a periodic basis.
Establishing such an interface will ensure that financial data in the system data bases has the
coverage necessary to provide a comprehensive financial picture for the Government of
Pakistan.    ,
b)    Pavroll and Pension Svstems: The payroll of government employees constitutes a large
portion of the government expenditures. The need for an automated Payroll and Pension
System is evident in view of the increasing volume of transactions. The proposed payroll
and pension system will perform the full range of both the payroll and pension functions as
an integrated system and the payments processed will automatically update the accounting
data in the Core Accounting and Reporting System. The system will be designed to
incorporate government rules and regulations related to the payroll and pension functions.
c)     Cash Flow  Forecasting and Financial Analysis System:  One of the MOF's main
inforrnation needs is to establish a cash forecasting system for forecasting likely flows of
expenditure and receipts and the consequent impact on cash balances and issue of debt
instruments. The Cash flow and Financial analysis system will be designed to provide
accurate cash balances for the MOF to perform its cash forecasting functions.
B.    Technology Architecture for PAD's Core Information Systems
2.                  The technology architecture for the project specifies the nature size and
distribution of the computer processing facilities and associated work stations; the nature of the
communications connections between the nodes of the network; and the nature and type of
application development. svstems software and Data Base Management Systems (DBMS), that
should be employed for the project. This architecture is determined by the characteristics of the
application systems for government accounting which may be summarized as follows:
a)    the application systems for government accounting wiil consist of several modules that need
t) exchanue data wx-ith each ollher:
b)    some mnodules xx ill need tv be implemente' at multiple levels e.g. the AGPR in Islamabad.
the l'rovincial AG offices and the District Accounts Ot'fices. Data will be generated. stored
and processed at each level and will need to be transferred between Lhe various levels: and



48
ANNEX4
Page 3 of 5
c)    the data and transaction volumes will vary by province and district. For the Central AGPR
site and for some AG offices and District .Accounts Offices they could be quite high.
3.            Hardware Characteristics:    These  application  characteristics require that a
distributed architecture be used and computer processing power be located at the various nodes of
the network (the AGPR office, AG offices, and District Accounts Offices). Where facilities allow
and data volumes justify it, these nodes should be coinected via telecommunications facilities. In
the absence of telecommunication facilities data transfer would be via computer compatible media
(diskettes). The transaction processing and database management required at each node should be
carried out by the computers installed at these nodes. Summary or detailed data, as required, would
be transmitted via telecommunications facilities/diskettes to the central computers located at the
AGPR offices in Islamabad.
4.            The adxantage of such an architecture is that it distributes computing power,
commensurate with needs, to different nodes of the network, thereby optimizing usage and making
it more reliable and less vulnerable to malfunctions at a single central site. In addition, end users at
Provincial AG and District Accounts Offices would have better control over their technological and
data resources and this inculcates a sense of ownership for the systems they use. The size and
distribution of computing power across the various nodes of the network is deternined by the
volumes of data and transactions that are generated and stored at the various nodes and the volumes
and frequencies of data that are transmitted betwveen the nodes. Information zathered from
discussions with PAD has been used to estimate the size and location of computers. This
information will be progressively refined by the consultants during the preparation phase of the
project, by undertaking actual surveys to gather data for each site.
5.            Software Characteristics:    The nature of the application systems requires that
the same core functionality be available at all nodes of the network. Thus, for example, the core
finctionality requirements will be similar at all District Accounts Offices. Therefore the sarne
application software package would need to be replicated at multiple sites. This characteristic
requires that the application software be scaleable and be able to run on small or large computers
without major changes. Scaleability can be achieved by choosing a line of computers of varying
capacities which are fully compatible from the software perspective. However. such a choice
would restrict further additions to the network to a particular vendor and line of computers.
Altematively, to avoid these restrictions, the application systems should be developed using
application development tools and DBMS software that can operate on machines of different sizes
offered by several vendors. This feature is called software portability. Several application
development and DBMS packages are available in the market which are both vertically and
horizontally portable.
6.           Ideallv. the %%a\ to ensure vertical and horizontal portability and scaIeabilitv at the
various n(odes of the network is to choose hard%varc and software that subscribes to the OPEN
systemns conicepts. Ill practice. the environment that comes closest to this concepr is the UTNIX
environment. ApplicaLtions developed under this en ironment would be able to run. \ith minimum
changes. on any computer that has a UNIX based operating svstem. Most hardware vendors now
offer a version of UNIX as an operating systems alternative. The project therefore proposes to use



49
ANNE 4
Page 4 of 5
UNIX as the operating system environment across the nodes of the network. In addition the
application development environment chosen will use Fourth Generation Languages (4GLs) and
Relational Data Base Management Systems (DBM[Ss) and associated development tools, Graphical
User Interfaces (GUls) to increase application development productivity and offer a user friendly
environment for data access and usage. This approach strikes a balance between large main frame
systems which would be cumbersome and expensive and other options which could be under
powered and not scaleable to sites with a large number of transactions.



ANNEX
I'age 5 of 5
Figurel: Pakistan - Information Systems Architecture for Government Fiscal Management                                                                               I
Function           State  Economic      Ptanning Div A     MOF &                     PAD        AGIDAO                   Agencies            Agencies with       Central Board of Rev.    Nap. SBP,    PAD
_______________  Bank  Affairs Div.   Prov. nlan  spis Prow. Fin Depts        AGPR         Omffies             Coveted by PAD  oepaubmntaiized Accounts Taxation    Customs          Treasuries     Audit
Legend            t Anwows show miormati dbon Some
lows Wtm be PapW based.sone electroni
ntomaan Systems Plawnnd Undr this Plojc
Macro Economic        Syslens for Macro-Economic Forecasting                                                                                :
Forecasting                        ._.
Macro-Economic Fraework 
Limn Agency         Oelencemallways        Tax        Cusioav                   4
i'wes l eid                                                                                               Bud. Prep.            ludet Prep.        Planning   I Pl n
Acl.ads                           _Boom _                                                                     ye                 Byaarra         j ystem        systa m                   Feed back
Budget Preparation                    Budget Gutn x                       |ul  Guatbas                                             I- I                                                   I                     born
System   for Budgetl                    eu4r1wethe
Preparadon                                         4                                                                            Iddierttr
A           4_ _  wCx        |    C...,t                   Benuv     Esi_s                                                                                                        areas
iktorc  bd                                      *                                                                                        .- 
BItsuin Dala        bAinm       d     eIon.n
x  oiqs         CapiJ.          Cu.rent                             Fiaumncu kawion    Ar-ncYrograms;widI rojs
epproved    L Line agency       Departonuinlaized       Toa        Cusioms                                 t
- _ _-       _      _  _ _    _kb _ _ _ _ _         Itudgel Execution   Accounting Syslens     ACirri"s= Adunm"=a                                   O
Budget Executmo"s           ,                  SystemNs to Budget          lk.d AYrioi      tEore Govt.              M-_    system..s         RailwaysUdelsnce. sic.
Monitoring, Couiol                        @   Execution, Aonitoring           Tiaxnse       Accounting              A * 
amni  Etoaa Cou.irni                        Fiscal Reporting       [xpen(iiUrs L        System             sur  ran  Pep4 naiizeti A c4rats                R       Rver cap  t1COding)
Fiscl Reporting      oaIioi-us                                                                                                  t      77
eDeU     i           y m il  S for   fjrsaBanknPmgrsss            il i     I               C       t     P                              D   tar Bert Remnncaion| Paying
|! P ftoin9     X      n     r     d     rq1   1          1r            xXPgWt|IW oank
Cash nCa. -nt                  bommingR      r [-... i,r I      Cash
i           i   -        - - -|n - -
[Mbi        | a! -FdFo                                               |
ftm mnagwwt                         I                De CO  Sewvic Pav.entsA.omn roe"el
D-    slc F oG xrsnm Iwo A I I
fbbt       nf             Sy          l                   IbA     SPx?_oon E|. 
gBonetic~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pt Admne
Petmoimme                                                                       am I'ir VlS          n Sif          IPe..rilonl| 
_       _agmna                                          hduordE.mirW.a                L. . .. .                       ..t  |    .~j
Amr                     v                 v             _                                .y j                              y                                                                           x-7xb_|
q    lio Aug Syatems ker Vati Aron                                                                                                                                Auditing



ANNEX5
Page l of4
PAKISTAN
IMPROVEME NT TO FINANCIAI, RFPORTING AND AUDITING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TRAINING PLAN
S        Iescipltis.il, of         Target Group             Criteria for         Trainiing          esponsibiity          Expeclted Resuilts        Airangenieits for
No.          'Ir;aining                                      Selectioll of          Motde         for.  Designinig etc.                             ratinces to Rle-cuter
-                                                         T._,  ruincecs  j  ________________                      _______________r_ _e             W orkplace
TI S- I (A): RCvised     I.  PAD officers &         All slaff in B5     I .  Slaff: lField   I.  Respective      Efficient amd effective     I IRM %s ing to issue
standaids anid procedtires    staff.                 above                   Office             Accountanits     implementation of revised   policy directive
includinig comnputeriied                                                     Training           General           standards & procedures
accounting procedures     2.  Staffand officers of                           Centers                             through trained staff and
the Treasuries and                                                                 officers.
the DAOs                                  2.  llicers:
AA1'l        2.  A A'I'l
3.  Managerial slikiTol'
thi l'rovihcial
Govts. based in
Secrelarials (Secits)
2   TSI-B: Retaininig          Staff of the Accounts      All redundant staff  Field Office     Respective             Redundant staff trained in
redundant stalf oni       Offices                    of the PAD.         Training Centers  Accountants            new skills                          -do-
CompLuterization of                                                                        General
accouLntillU prceS                                                       _ _ __ures
3   TSIA&B: Ttinainig of       Ofricers selected as      FOTC Trainers,       Training to be    AAT'I                 A core of 18 trainers shall
Trainers for Field Offices  trainers for FOTCs       B-17/18             arranged by                             become available to
Training Centers                                                         "course                                 impart training of l'OTCs            -do-
(FOTCs)                                                                  developers" in                          withi help of course
revised                                 developers
procediires and
staliidar ds
4   TSIA&13: Twrininu          Selected trainers of the   Trainers wilh at    Training by       AATI to coordinate   Trainiers with skills in
abroad ol'ljaiiici-s in   AATI                      least 3 years        selected foreign                        course development                   -do-
Training                                            service in tihe      Training                                inethodology/techiiiques
MethodologyfFechniquies                             AATI                 Institutions



ANNEX 5
I'age 2 of 4
_                 .                                   1  SeIto  of            Mo.          Io )gig1Tane  oR-ne
S    I)escription of rr.aining    Target Groulp         Criteria for      Training       Responsibility     Expected ltesults     Arrangements ror
No.                                                      5;clection of       Motde         ror l)csigning                         Trainees to Rc-ecnler
Trainiees                            etc.                                   Workiplace
5   TS-2: Expanding anid       PAD officers and staff  PAD staff and    Accountanits    1. Computer        Fulfillnent of         IIRM Wing to issue
strengtlheniing computer                         officer (B-5 to    General/AATI       Advisor         requirements of          policy directive
trainiing to meet                                B- 19)                                                trainiing in
recluirenlunits o                                                                  2.raiini!5  2  AATI  "Comptiter Basics"
flowinig from l)iagnostic                                                                              and "Office
Consullancy                                                                                            Automiiation"
identified by
Diagnostic
Consultanicy
6.  TS-5A: Trainina of         Officer in B-19/18     Officers without  Selected        I. Director        Preparation of a
O)fficers abroad lo1r Ivo  posied in thc AATll    any previous     loreigni            GcneCral fIM   core of 1 2 trainers
years t0ir NlIt tll'      and ihose likely to he   long terIn      universilies or                    to Irain in curricula
etluin Alelal lU)'l I;madualme    so posted      training abroad   insliltules     2. AAI'l           ol' ile Revise(d 2            -do-
tdegrees in Accounting,                          wilh specified                                        years 'Irainiing
Auditing, Managemlenl,                      i    minimum                                               Program for
Financial Management,                            period of                                            Probationers
Coimputer Science/MIS                            teaching
and EDP Auditinig                                experience
7.  TS-5A: Traininlg of        Probationary Officers   Probationary    AATI            AATI                Professional
Probatioiners in Revised  of the Accounts        Officers of the                                      development of
Program                   Group                  Accounts Group                                       newly inducted
who have                                             officers                      -do-
exhausted Ilteir
chances for
reappearing in
the F-PSC exams
S.  TS-Ii: Seminiiars,         B- 17 officers and     Fixed yearly     Short courses   tIRM                Continued
Conferelices. Short       above                  louirs of         at AATI                            Professional                  -do-
Courses                                          training lor ClPE                                    I lducalion



ANNEXS
Page 3 of 4
S.      D)escr-iption of       Targct Group         Criteria for       Training       Responsibility ror      Expected Results       Arrangements for
Nio         Tr aininig                              Selection of         Mode           D)esigning etc.                            Trainees to Re-enter
Trainees      ___ _|_Workpbace
9.  TS-3: Trraining Of      B-I8 officers of the  B-I8 officers of   AATI            AATI and              Prepare officers for
B- 18 officers in       Accotuts Group       PAD due for                        PAD/HRM Wing          professional              HRM Wing to issue
preparation for         and tilose who       promotionl within.                                       responsibilities in B-19   policy directive
promotion to A- 19     frulfill conditions   one year
for promotion
10  TS-14: Professional     Ofiicers likely to be                   Local           AATI in                Mid. Manageniienit      No specific policy
Training lor 13PS- 18 to  promoted to BPS-                                      Consultation with     Professional             required on posting
19 Promolion Zone      19 in six months                                         IIRM Wing             Development Course
Officers
It.  I RN I sti alegy        Seniority-cum-                         Appropriale      PAD/I IKM Wing        Enable PAD/I ItM to    I IRM Winlg to issue
Nklalnpk)%Cl- 4Ilai;IIIIIi.    filness and aptilude            local andi                            lauliCil MIS             policy (lirective
Job Aiialyl is I )Diabase  for I IRM (I0                        loreign                               developiient, and
Managemelit etc.       officers)                               institution                            undertake preparation
of Job Descriptions etc.
12.  Audit Strategy         Officers giving                         Study tours      PAD/Audit Wing        Acquaint officers with   IiRM Wing to issue
Traininig - IForeign   options to serve in                     abroad to                              modem audit practices   policy directive
Training               Audit Offices (40                       offices of                             in other SAls.
officers)                              cooperating
SAis
13.  Audlit Siraiegy        Officers considered   Competitioni      MBA program   PAD/Audit Wing           Acquaint officers with    I IRM Wing to issue
I raiiiinig - F:oreigna  lo liave senior                                                             modlerin finaincial        policy direclive
'Iraining               management                                                                    mnilagement practices.
polenlial
14.  Audit Strategy         Officers giving                         4-6 monthis      PAD/Audit Wing       Acquaint officers witi
Trainitiii - I ocal    oplions to service                      witli private                         altestalionl audil
Altacluinnis wilih    in Auidit Ollices or                    sector audit                          practices in the privale         -do-
Private :\udifiuig F:irmiIs  otherwise selected                firms in                              sector
I (100 ollicers)                         Pakistan_



ANNEXS
Plage 4 of 4
S.; ]    l)escriplion iif      Target Croul)       Criteria for       Training       Responisibility for|  Expected Rtesults        Arrangeymcnts for
No         T rainllng                               Selection ofi       Motic          Dcsigining ctc.                           ITrainees to Rle-enter
I  ______ ________ ______  _ ________ _______     T rainces    j   _ ___________   ________rainces                                 W ork p)lace
1I.  Orienl.tlioll Programl    Senior to middle  All                Local           PAD/MIS Wing          raamiliarize the IT     IT professional staff
(1316-20)               level IT                                                                     professionals of the    will be inducted in
professional                                                                 MIS Wing %viltl ille    the MIS Wing for
induicted in the MIS                                                         objectives and          specific jobs and they
Wing (BPS 17-20)                                                             activities of PAD, its    woould remaini posted
organizationi and the   on these jobs
long terni
computerization plan of
the Department
16  Tecchinology Relieshier   Systems Analysts,   All               Local           MIS Wing and         llpdate the knowledge
programi (I I17- I '))  Programmers and                                        Pakislan Comiiputier   about tlhe latest trenids
OA Stall ol MIS                                        13Burcaui (ICII)     in thc lechinlology and    As above
Wilng                                                                        Upgrade and reiniforce
skills in some areas
relevant to this project
17.  Skills l)evlopmecnmt   Operators and Data   All                Local Separate  MIS Wing, PCB         [)evelop skills required   PAD staff would be
Prograii (1B 16-17)    Control staff of AG                     Modules by      Hardware vendors    for DP operations and    trained unider this
Offices and DAOs                       Job-type        and consultants       management at each      programil and PAD
and Computer Site                                      (Implementation       site                    would have to make
Managers of these                                      Assistance)                                   arrangement to retain
offices                                                                                              t  I  I  Iinte MIS
Winig



55
ANNEX6
Page I of 8
PAKISTAN
IMPROVEMENT TO FINANCIAL REPORTING AND AUDITING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
IMPLEMFNTATION PLAN
1.    The attached Project Implementation Plan represents a summary of an operational project
monitoring system developed by PAD to track key activities and for monitoring project progress.
The implementation plan contains:
(a)   the list of all key activities and milestones associated with each project sub-
component, including technical assistance and training, the dates of their start and
completion, and linkages with preceding and following activities;
(b)   a schedule of procurement actions. including target dates for each step; and
(c)   specified actions required to achieve the project's development initiatives.
2.    The operational monitoring system also includes:
(a)   schedules for disbursements for each project component, detailing expected
fmancing by financier, maintained by PAD as part of the project's COSTAB files;
(b)   project accounting and auditing arrangements (para. 4.28); and
(c)   arrangements for monitoring and review, including a Steering Committee and an
external Panel of International Experts (paras. 3.7 and 4.29).
3.    PAD would keep the implementation plan up to date, and it would form the basis for
periodic reporting to senior management, the Steering Committee and IDA.
4.    Key development impact indicators and progress indicators for monitoring delivery of
project inputs are further described in Annex 8.



Implemnentation Plan
PAKISTAN: Improvement to Financial Reporling and Auditing (PIFRA) Project
1996             1997              1998       J      1999              2000             2001
ID   Task Naie                                                       92103IQ4Q1  042 0304101   Q2 03  0401  02 Q3  04  01  0Q2103104  01 IQ2103T4
1   IDA Credit Effectiveness
2   Governmnent Accounting & Financial Reporting
3       Financial Administration
4           Review of Rules & Regulations                                           ro
10       Study of depaitmeptalization
11           Review of the impact of departrmentalization
12       Consultancy; Accounting Standads & System Develop /Irnpl, 
13           Systems Consultants Appointed                                 *                       i
14           Study for impovemenr of accdnft pgicis & fncial repoping.
16           Complete accounting standards and reporling frarmework
16           Adopt accounting standards
17           Complete revised chart of accounts
1B           Appoint consultants to assist implement revised accounting polkie
19           Imnpleientation of accounting poicies & standards study
20          Implement revised chart of accounts
21           Systerm developmnent & implementation_.______
29           Finalze hlirctional design & software specifications                       --
30           Functional Specifications Completed
31           Search software package (off the shelfl
32       Software Development & Customnization                                                                       V
33           HIW/SW for Systems Developnent lnstaled (see MIS Center)
34           Award SW/Devebprment Procuremnent Contract                                                o
35           Develop Core Accounting & Reporting System                                                  .
3B           Develop Payroll System.|
37           Develop Pension System.I
38           Develop Cash-Flow Forecasting & Financial Analysis
39       Pilot Instalation
40           Core Accounting & Repoting Systemn
41           Payroll System                                                                        I
42           Pension Syslem
43           Cash-Flow Forecasting & Financial Analysis
44           Pilot Implementtion Conpleted (using TAC ll HW)I
45       Hardware, Software, and Facilities                                                  I-j
46           Finalize design & specification
47          BSi ing       |_i__                 _     _  _|
1                                                                             Annex B



Implementation Plan
PAKISTAN Imnprovemenl to Finandal Reporting and Auditing (PIFRA) Pr*oect
1996    |         1997               199        |      19S         |      2000               2001
ID   Task Name                                                           a210314  GQF021030Q4101 2 304 Ql 0Q21030Q4101TQ2T033 401102 10304
56           Evaluation & Award                                                                         r
64           Delivery.
71           Faciites and Sile Preparation                                                                                                     .    r       n
so       Systems Rephcation
I1           Core Accounting & Report  Sysen'
22           Payrd Sytr
Is           Phase I Systm s Repicain o
6P.nio System
3            Cash-Fl  Foreasing & Fnial Analysm
*            ComlSeteSystems Replaion
87       Cosuiancy: Imoptmmdlon Asabtan
U            Local consulants - swurvor                                                                 i                                       _
n9           Local consuitants - team
90   Govemment AUd_I
91       Systems Improvement Coehu_any
92           Procurement of consuants
93        _       __Prepare terms d rference (TOR)                                                               cA
94    i_ Bdmg                   ________
102               Evaluation & Award
110           Audig Syste  _epr uent
111               Review o sys_e
112               Agie    e_ _oW
113               Prep   manulsi
114               is dItnn irnp_o mn
116               Evaluation                                                                                                                                    4
116      Inremal audik - systm  under development
117       MBA Program for Auditors/AccountantailS                                .                                         :                        =
113       SAI Attachrnenis
119       Private sector cooperation                                                             -
120           Study for potential areas for greater private sector involwement
121           Piot introduction of audits
122           Review performance, cost. & quality assurance
123           Extension of trial partnerships in governrment auditing                                                                   =
124           Gradual expansion of the program
125       Audit System (IIW/SWlFacililies)
2                                                                                 Annex 6



Inipleenlntion Plan
PAKISTAN: Improvement to Financial Reporting and Auditing (PIFRA) Ptf*
1996              1997              1998               1999              2000              2001
ID   Taslk Name                                                          203   4  011021 03  Q4  Q   0Q20Q30Q4  Q1 02  Q3  Q4 010Q2  03  04  10QlQ2|03Q4
126           Finalize design & spedficationu
127           Bidding     _
136           Evaluation & Award
143           Delivery
144           Site preparations                                                      i
145           Physical facilities                                                                                                   =
146          Implefmentation
147           Review and evaluation                                                                                : _
143   Humnan Resource Management
149       Organizational Development
150           Procurernent of Consultants
151               Finalize spedfications/TOR
162               Bidding                                                            I
160               Evaluation & Award
166               Consultants appointed
167           Consulants services
168               Job analysis - foreign consultants                                                    *--__                                                                     IA
169               Clangie Mallagelment
173       HRM Policy Changes                                                    -
174           Depanrtental Cadre
175               Eliminate unqualifed promotion for new entrants
176               Revive Dired entry at B-16
177               SubstUute SAS by AAT exam
173          Inter Deparnmental Cadre
179               Start CPE program
180               Star 2 year probationers training
181               Explore professional competence scheme
182           Career Development                                               -
183              Assign staff or 3 year period
1B4               Develop structured career path for specialist staff
185               Rotate staff on structured career path
188               Rationalize incentives for professional qualifications
189              Provide salary supplements for specialists
190          Employee Accountability
191              Define job descriptions
3                                                                                Annex 6



Implenentation Plan
PAKISTAN: tmprovenent to Financial Repotting and Auditing (PIFRA) Project
1996              1997              1998                1999            2000              2001
ID  Task Name                                                           Q20304Q102030412Q304 QiQ203|041010Q21030Q410Q213Q4
192              [)evelop performance standards
193               Performance evaluation against standards
194           Complete job analysis, job description, and manpower plan                                t
195           Training - HRM specialists
196       Syslems Development
197           Consultancy - MIS
198           Application Software
199          Install IIRM MIS
200           Establish MIS for Audit wing
201           Establish MIS tor Accounting wing
202           PAD Secretariat Information System
203               Finalize design & specification
204               Bidding
213               Evaluation & Award
220               Delivery
221               Site preparations
222               P8ysical facilities                                                                                          __ _                                               flu
223              lImpleileiilalion                                                                                                    .  -
224              Install PAD Secretariate MIS
225   Training
226       Procurement of Consultants
227           Finalize specifications/TOR
228           Bidding
235           Evaluation & Award
241       Consultants Services                                                       r
242           Professional Training
243               Training Packages
244                   Training need analysis (TNA)                                  o
245                   Training material development
246               2 year Probationers Program
247                   TNA - prooationers program
248                   Course design
249                   Training mnaterial development
250                   Introduce training course                                     I
251                   Training evaluation anrd corrective actions
4                                                                                Amu 6



Implementation Plan
PAKISTAN: Improvement to Financial Reporting and Auditing (PIFRA) Project
1996              1997              1996               1999              2000              2001
ID   TaskName                                                           0 2 3 Q4 QI  0Q2030Q4  Q   0203  Q4   01TQ2103TQ4  QlQ2 Q3  04  Ql 020304
252               BPS 18-19 Training
253                   TNA - BBPS 18-19
254                   Course design                                                    o3
255                   Training material development
256                  Introduce training course
257                   Training evaluation and corrective actions       |.
258           Sub-professional Training
259               Accounting Technicians
260                   TNA hr revised standards
261                   Course design
262                   Training material development
263                  Introduce training course
264                   Training evaluation and corrective actions
265               FOTC Training in Revised Procedures
266                   TNA for revised standards
267                   Course design
268                   Training malerial development
269                  liitioxuce training course                                                            i.  .                                                                  o
270                   Training impact evaluation and corrective actions
271       Seminar, conferences, other training etc.
272           MBA Program for Faculty
273           Links wih institutions
274           National seminar-1
275           National seminar-2
276          International seminar-I                                                                   I
277          International seminar-2
278          Visit to/from other SAis                                               .                                                                         __
234          Training abroad for faculty
289       Facilities
290           Lease lor SAS/AT Hostel
291           Furniture etc. for SAS Hostel                                              __r
292           AATI
293               Set-up/renovation of AATI Lahore
294               HW/SW for library
295                lvW/SW for MTI
5                                                                                Annex 6



Implementation Plan
PAKISTAN: Improvement to Financial Reporting and Auditing (PIFRA) Project
1996             1997       |      1998       |      1999              2000              2001
ID   Task Name                                                         Q2 3Q401020304 1 2Q3  Q4 Q1  Q2 Q30Q40Q1Q20Q30Q40Q1   Q2 Q30Q4
296               UPS and copier for library   !
297               Completion of set-up & re-equipping of AATI Lahore
298           FOTCs
299               Set-up/renovation of FOTCs
300              Furniture etc. for FOTCs
301               HW/SW for FOTCs
302              Completion of set-up & re-equipping of FOTCs
303          Others
304       Subscribe journals & books                                                                  __,_,
309  Administration
310       MIS - Software Development Center
311           Civil Works                                              .-r
312               Finalize design & specification
313               Bidding
321               Evaluation & Award
328              Construction/Delivery
329           Contract posts and staffing (MIS)
330           Computer HW/SW
331               Finalize design & specification
332               Bidding                                                    .
340               Evaluation & AwardX
348               Delivery.                                                          ,
349           Facilities and Sitel
350               Site preparationsI
351              Physical facilities
352           HW/SW for Systems Development Installed
353       Project Management
354           Contract posts and staffing (PMU)
355           Office furniture & equipment
356           IlHardware/software                                           i
358          Consultancy: Future project preparation
359  Advisory panel of experts                                                                   a        a                a                                   a
365  Macro-Economic Management
366   MOF                                                                                                                                                 A        6
6                                                                              Annex 6



Implementation Plan
PAKISTAN: Improvement to Financial Reporting and Auditing (PIFRA) Project
_                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~1996  T:    1997  1  1998             1999             2000       1      2001       l
ID   Task Name                                                       02 03 04 | Q1 I Q2 I Q3 I Q4 |   1 02 |    1 Q4 I Q1 I Q2 I Q3 I Q4 |   1 02 03  04 | Ql I Q2  03 | Q4
367      PC - Establishment of Nuclei and training of staff
368      PC - Construction of Models & Simulation and poverty analysis/monitor
369      PC - Strengthening of PPMI
370   Separation of Auditing and Accounting Functions
371      Bifurcation
372          Placement of HQ officers
381          Provide Separate Organizations Order
382          Formalize division of assets between Audit and Accounts Offices  .
386          Review quality assurance arrangements
387          Complete bifurcation & separate 1996/97 budget                |
388      Prepare for Separation                                            !
389          Draft terms of reference (TOR) for Separation Task Force (TF)
390          Review and agree TOR for TF
391          Set up TF                                                                              i*:
392          Prepare Separation Strategy
393          Amend regulations, setup new structure, transfer staff etc.
394          Arrangements for Separation of Audit and Accounts Complete
395  Project Finish
7                                                                             Annex 6



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 1
PAKISTAN
IMPROVEMENT TO FINANCIAL REPORTING AND AUDITING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
IDA Disbursements by Semesters
(USS Million)
IDA         Cumulative
Fiscal Year   Semester      Disbursement   Disbursement    Percent
Ending        (US $ million)   (US $ million)    %
FY97       Jun-97               1.6             1.6          6
FY98       Dec-97               2.1             3.7          13
Jun-98              2.3             6.0          21
FY99       Dec-98               2.9             8.9          31
Jun-99              2.9            11.8          41
FY00       Dec-99               3.8            15.6          54
Jun-00              4.0            19.6          68
FY01       Dec-00               3.2            22.8          79
Jun-01              3.2            26.0          90
FY02       Dec-01               1.4           27.4           95
Jun-02              1.4            28.8          100
June 1997 figures include PPF refinancing



Annex 8
Page I of 7
PA K I STAN
IMPROVEMEN-T TO FINANCIAL REPORTING AND AUDITING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAI. REPORTI
PROJECT MILESTONES ANI) PERFORMANCE MONITORING INDICATORS
Component                  Government Accounting and Financial Reporting
Objectives                 Develop and introduce accountinig standards, reporting systems and financial administration procedures conforming as far as possible to internationally accepted
principles.
Input Indicaturs           P rocess Indicators                                Output/lImpact Indicators                           Performance Indicators
ioeCIInIIentI  i c\ Io    S.tting UI) 6overnineil study teamIIIs - January 1997  Repolts onl reviews ol 'i nanncial rules and regulationls -  Availability ol improved linancial reports
tinl.1.iiial Ik Li u 1lit                                                     ongoing                                             mieasured by deinostrAItilliOll alt pilot stage and
regulations and tlhe imip)act                                                                                                     iipleinenialion at completion ol replication -
ol departilicnlli/alioll.  Appoint consultants to review dcpartmentalizationl -    Report on the review of ilic impact of         for the selected province and for x% of
January 1997                                       departmentalization -January 1998                   federal transactions
I A provided tom          Appointimient of Accountinig Standards and Systems  Improved accounting standards and reporting         Implementationi of systems measured by;
mlevclopment and           Consultants- September 1996                        frainework completed and adopted - May 1997         Numbcr of districts systems automated and
implementation of                                                                                                                 % of automated transactions by value shown
accounting siandanrd,      f)cvelopment, agreement and adoption of improved    Revised budget structure and chart of accounts     in a schedule staning from zero and showing
financial reporting        accouinting standards and reporting framework - April  conforming with GFS classification methodology  a target % by year
framework anid inforiiiation   1997                                           adopted and budget for FY 1999 prepared according
systems.                                                                      to revised structure - July 1998                    Cash flow forecasting and efficiency of
D)evelopment and implementation of revised chart of                                                    borrowing mcasured by thc initroduictioni of
accounts - July 1998                                                                                   cash ilow forecasts, their accuracy and the
extent to which a rationalized borrowing
Ilardware, systems         D)evelopment of functional design of systems,      Full functional design of systems, processes and    strategy is adopted b) Governrent
softwarc and application   processes and procedures and application softwarc  procedures for Core Accounting, Payroll, Pensions
software required for tilC  specifications - November 1997                    and Cash Forecasting completed - September 1997
implementation of core



Annex 8
Page 2 of 7
PROJECT MILESTONES AND PERFORMANCE MONITORING INDICATORS
Component                  CovernmentAccounling and Financial Reporting (continiedl)
Input Indicators           Process Indicators                                   Outputl/mpact Indicators                            Performance Indicators
0overnmient accotiliting.  Acquisitioni and Installation of I lardwvare and    Improvement in timeliness of expenditure
paN roll and pension and   Sofltware for Software Development Cenitcr -         management information measured by reduction in
ca.sh loreca&stimig  sctccn> al   I )cciber 1997                                timc for comilpilation 01'accoUnts at sites wilere
a total oi' 21 sItIC itelLdig                                                   systenis have been installed and iOii the Government
thc AGPR office in         t?ompiction of Systems Development/Customization/   Il/W, Systems S/W delivered, installed and tested;
Islamabad, all provincial  I esling/ ior the Core Accounting/Playroll/Plensioni and   Application S/W tested lor esscntial liimmctioniality
AG oilices, and sclccted   (ash Forecasting Systems - March 1999
DAts within each                                                                Pilot systems installattion completed - December 1999
province.
New systemiis implemented at 21 sites December 2001
Iiiplementation of Pilot Systems at AGPR Islamabad,   Impact
AG Peshawar; and two DADs reporting to this AG      New management processes for budget execution,
- D)ecember 1999                                    (cash allocation, commitinctl, payment processing
and receipts) palyroll and pensions; and cash
oloccasling in place and Ilulmclionllng
P'octmil cinenlol of I 1/W aid '- S/W lor Systemmis
Rcpihcation - D)ecemiber 1998                       Ability lo produce liscal accounts data consistent wilh
international standards; improved financial reports
Replication of Phase I Systems - Core Accounting and  including budget variance and project costs
Payroll - January 2001
Functional and economic analyses of budget and
Completion of Systems Replication - Cash            expendittires available from the new system
Forecasting and Pensions - December 2001
Improved expenditure management information and
improved controls of expenditures
Improved payroll and pensions processing and
associated management information available for
civil servants
Improved cash maimagement Ior the Government as a
whole



Annex 8
Page 3 of 7
PROJECT MILESTONES AND PERFORMANCE MONITORING INDICATORS
(omitpontent               Government Auditing
Objectives                 Develop and introduce improved auditing standards and techniqtues, automated tools for auditing, improved auditing capacity and increased use of privale sector
lirms
Input Indicators           Process Indicators                                   Outputl/mpact Indicators                            Performance Indicators
Output
IA ftianiced b) the project   Appointment of Auditing Consultants - April 1997  Report on review of auditilng procedures            Proportion of PAD's audits using amended
liur review ol 'PA) audit,                                                                                                          proccdures.
xwork load,                Review of auditing systems, proce(lures - to bc      Improved auditing guidelines, policies, procedurcs
communications withl       completed by March 1998                              and standards completed and adopted - August 1997    I'roportion of PAD's audits using improved
stakeholders; preparation                                                       onwards                                             reporting formats
of guidelines, policies, and   Development and agreement on revised guidelines,
process for the introductioni  policies, procedures and standards and preparation of   Operating manuals prepared and completed -   Proportion of PAD's audits subject to quality
of intemational auditing   related operating manuals - to be completed by       December 1997 to December 1998                      assurance procedures.
standards; efficiency      December 1998
itproveteints. qua lit                                                          l Revised procedures impleiimieited - Scptember 1998  Improved timeliness of auditing rcports;     ON
Issuratcc assi.tantcc in ihc  Itplemenitiiation of rcvised proccdilrcs and tlic  onwards                                         timittg of'Auditor Gcneral's suhittission ol'
use of autonmated tools aid   evaliuiationi - to comtinerce by October 1998                                                         rcports to lPresident and PAC; improvements
stl;dard audit progranis:                                                       Evaltiation completed of new systetns and procedures   to be assessed from current base period of 9
development of revised                                                         - July 2000                                          inonths
I IRM procedures and
training programs and lo    Internal audit of systems under development         Internal audit of systems under development         Numbers of staff trained and in place
explore avenues for priva:e  lo commence - May 1997                             completed - December 2000                           measured according to target schedule.
sector cooperation
Development of training programs and                Training programs implemented and completed;
implementation: a) MBA program for                  a) MBA program for auditors/accountants and MIS
auditors/accountants and MIS professionals - Start  professionals - completed July 2000; b) Attachments
October 1996; b) attachments with other SAis - start   with other SAls- completed July 2000
October 1996
Sludy on avenues for private sector cooperation;    Avcnucs for private sector cooperation identiiied -
I'ilot recommendalions -start July 1998; review of'  December 1997;                                      Increased use of'private sector lirns measuired
performancc/ costs - start January 1999;                                                                by umiber of audits conducted jointly by
extension of trail partnerships and expansion of    Pilot exercise completed - December 1998;           PAD with private sector iirms; current base is
program- start July 1999                                                                                zero.
Review of Pilot completed - July 1999;
'Trial partnerships extended and program expanded -
December 2000;



Annex 8
Page 4 of 7
PROJECT MILESTONES AND PERFORMANCE MONITORING INDICATORS
Component                 Government Auditing (continued)
Input Indicators          Process Indicators                                 Output/lmpact Indicators                           Performance Indicators
I lards%are, systemi      Development of functional design of automated      Functional design of automated auditing systems.   Implementation of audit systems measured by:
softlxare and applicatioui  auditing systems, processes and procedures and   processes and procedures and software specifications,   number ol audit o'fices automalted according
software for audit        software specifications- July 1998                 completed - July 1998                              to target schedule
planning, sampling and
documentation and tor     Acquisition and Installation of Hardware and       Hardware and Software installed - Sept. 1999
audit of automatcd        Software by September 1999                         Auditing Systems implemented- April 2000
systems.
Completion of Systems implementation - April 2000    Review of auditing systems completed - December
2000
Review and evaluation of new systems - December
2000                                              Impact
PADs Auditing capacity improvcd, better quality staff
traintcd and in place                                                                              -4
New auditing guidelines, processes, procedures and
standards in place and functioning
Improved and timely auditing information and
improved controls of expenditures throughout
Govemment; timely reports to PACs
Enhanced scope and independence of audit
Strengthened performance monitoring and evaluation
capacity through new procedures and automated tools
Increased public accountability and improved
Governance in place for the Government as a whole



Annex 8
Page 5 of 7
PROJECT MILESTONES AND PERFORMANCE MONITORING INDICATORS
Comiponent                Separation of the Audit and Accounts Functions
Objectives                Achieving better independenec of the auditing function by initiating a gradual transfer of responsibility for accounting to the executive arm of Government.
Input Indicators          Process Indicators                                Output/impact Indicators                          Performance Indicators
Output
Governmm:nl ' ask lorccs  Iifurcation:                                      Bilurcatioll:
and studies for hifurcation                                                 Arrangemnenis for bifurcation of administralion of  Progress accordinig tt) agreed scheduile for
of administration ol the  Developmenit ot arranigemenis for bifurcation of  audit and accounts functions completed            development and approval of proposals tor
audit an account  UingS,  adminiistration of audit and accounts lunctions,  - I IQ ollicers placed - t)eccimber 31, 1996      lunctlionlall separialioni of accountingi an auidit
development ot proposals    - Placement of IIQ officers- Dec. 1996          - Separate organizations created - March 31, 1 997  and implementation of arrangements fbr
for a separate structure of    - provision of separate organizations- March 1997  - Division of assets between audit and accountis  Bifurcation by July 1997
the accounting function   - fomialization of division of assets between audit  offices fomialized - June 30, 1997
with the executive arn ol   and accounts offices - July 1997                - Quality assurance arrangements reviewed -       Progress according lo agrced schedule for
governmente               - review of quality assurance arrangements - starting  June 30, 1997                                development and approval of proposals and
rcorganization the AAI lis  January 1997                                    - Bifurcation completed and 1997/98 budget separated  implementation of arrangemenis for lunctional  o
to cater to the Iraining  - completion of bilurcationi and a separate 1996/97                                                 separation by July 2000
reLlt iririeeilts: au.iiociiiicnts    budget for auititi and accotiints - July 1997
required in tlie Icgal lini.                                                Scparation:
work and approval ol      Separation:                                       TORs for Separalion Task force completed
government to revised                                                      -TORs for TF agreed and reviewed
policies                  - Draft TORs for Separation Task force -          -Separation TF set up
January 1998                                   -Separation Strategy completed
- Review and agreement on TORs for TF -          -Regulations anended, new stricttures set up and slaff
March 1998                                      transferred
- Selting up TF - March 1998                      -Arrangements for separation of Audit and Accounts
- Development of Separation Strategy - March 1999  functions completed
- Amendment to regulations setting up new structures
and transferring staff- July 2000               Impact
- Completion of arrangements for separation of Audit
and Accounts functions - July 2000              Improved independence of the auditing function
Increased public accountability and improved
governance in place for the Goverinent as a whole



Annex 8
Page 6 of 7
PROJECT MILESTONES AND PERFORMANCE MONITORING INDICATORS
Component                  Institutional Development (Human Resource Management)
Objectives                 Developing PAD's institutional capacity to sustain improvements to financial management systems by introduction of revised lIRM policies and the
strengthening of financial management training.
Input Indicators           Process Indicators                                  Output/lmpact Indicators                                    Performance Indicators
Output
I'A tor managing process    Appointment of Job analysis and change managemcint  a) Departmcntal Cadre- less promotioni ofunqualificd stafif:    Itertoriinaoece meastiied by progress on
of change, preparation of    consultants - July 1997                            direct entry at B316; and improved understanding ofi the   key milestones in the developmelit
Job descriptions anid                                                           principles of accounting and(I auditing.                   amid implemilentation of revised
performance standards and   Implementation of HRM policy changes as follows:                                                               policies as shown in ilte
designing and installing a                                                      b) Inter- Departmental Cadre-CPE program; 2 year           implementation plan
MIS for llRM planning      a) Departmental Cadre- eliminate unqualified         probationers training; professional certification schemiie
and monitoring             proportion quota- December 1996; revive direct entry                                                            Percentage of stalT rotated within 3
at llt6 grade- Decemiiber 1997; substitute SAS by   c) IIRM policies for: staff assignment for 3 years; career path   years
AA'I' examination - September 1996                  for specialist staff; stall' rotation policies liniked to career
dlvclopmnit: iicenfives b)r prollssiomnail qodihications: sal;iry   Number ol' stalli nicilde  in rcvis.cd
l) Intcl-I)epaltilicnital C'adre- Start CI'  plogilail -  sutpplenmenits lor specialists                        I IKl sysictm
July 1997; start 2 year probationers training -
Deceimiber 1998; explore proflcssional ceritiication  d) Employee Accountability- Job dcscriplions;           lIercentage of staff covered by new
scheme - December 1998                              performance standards; manpower plan; trained IIRM         job descriptions
specialists
c) Career policies- assign staff for 3 years - July 1996;
develop career path for spccialist staff- Dec. 1997;  e) IIRM MIS Installed
rotate staff on structured path- Nov. 1998; rationalize
incentives for professional qualifications - Dec. 1998;   Impact
salary supplements for specialists - July 1999      Staff training more in line with requirements of modern
financial procedures and a system of continuous professional
d) Employee Accountability- Define Job descriptions    education to keep staff skills up to date, leading to enhanced
- Dec. 1997; develop performance standards -July    staff competence.
1998; develop manpower plan - December 1997;
evaluate staff according to standards- December     Promotion and rewards policy based on open and quantified
2000; train fIRM specialists - December 1997        perfoniance standards and a recognized merit system
e) Implementation of I IRM MIS - April 2000         Improved related management information systems
resulting in monitoring of compliance with new HRM policies



Annex 8
Page 7 of 7
PROJECT MILESTONES AND PERFORMANCE MONITORING INDICATORS
Component                 Inslitutional Development (Training)
Objectives                Developing PAD's Institutional Capacity to sustain improvements to financial management systems by strengthening of financial manaigement training.
Input Indicators          Process Indicators                                Output/impact Indicators                          Performance Indicators
Output
i ulids lor reluibhislijuicit  Appointmenit of'l'raining consultants - December  Trainiing needs analysis completed
and cxteision ol existing  1996
training iacilitics;                                                        Training materials developcd                      Peiformance miaesured b)y ipimemcienationi of
equipment; computer I l/W    Completion of'l'raining needs analysis- February                                                 changes according to impleiiientation schedule
and S/W;                  1997                                              2 years probationers program implemented
Number of trainee hours for PAD and
I'A to assist in training  Development of training materials- April 1997    B 18-19 training program implemented              provincial staff
needs assessment, course
design; materials         D)esign and implementation of 2 years probationers  Accounting ''echnicians training program        Number trainec hours lor AAT Probationers
developmenit and( training    program - May 1999                           implemented                                        and U 1 8 staff
ol trainers
IDcsigil and impleitentatio ol' BIIS 18-19 training -    1F01( training Prograin Implemented
Inlernat iona:l scholarshipisp  commencing ()cloher 1997                                                                                                                    o
lor lacult) tiainicis and                                                   Foreign training and MBIA priograms iinplcmnented
lunds for semiinars       Design and implementation of Accounting
T'echnicians [raining - June 1998                 Links with other institutions and SAls established
Design and Implementation of FOTC training - July    National and International seminars and conferences
1998                                             held
Implementation of MBA foreign training program for   Training facilities renovated- SAS hostel, AATIs and
faculty - Commencing October 1996                FOTCs
Development of Links with other institutions and  Impact
SAIs - January 1997                              Improved training programs and facilities
National and International scminars and conferences -   A system of continuiouis professional education
Commence - February 1997
Improved professional competence of staff
Renovation of training facilities SAS hostel, AATIs    Department wide
and FOTCs - Compleled - July 1998



71
ANNEX9
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN
IMPROVEMENT TO FINANCIAL REPORTING AND AUDITING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SUPERVISION PLAN
Approx. Date              Activity                    Participation      Staff Weeks
September 1996  Project launch                   Task Manager                  10
Accounting Specialist
Audit Specialist
Informatics Specialist
HR & Training Specialist
Macro Economist
March 1997      Supervision Mission (coordinated   Task Manager                10
with panel of experts meeting)  Accounting Specialist
Audit Specialist
Informatics Specialist
HR and Training Specialist
Macro Economist
September 1997  Supervision Mission              Task Manager                  10
Accounting Specialist
Audit Specialist
Informatics Specialist
HR and Training Specialist
March 1998      Supervision Mission (coordinated   Task Manager                10
with panel of experts meeting)  Accounting Specialist
Audit Specialist
Informatics Specialist
HR and Training Specialist
September 1998  Supervision Mission              Task Manager                  10
Accounting Specialist
Audit Specialist
Informatics Specialist
HR and Training Specialist
Macro Economist



72
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
Approx. Date              Activity                    Participation       Staff Weeks
March 1999      Supervision Mission (coordinated   Task Manager                10
with panel of experts meeting)  Accounting Specialist
Audit Specialist
Informatics Specialist
HR and Training Specialist
June 1999       Mid-Term Review Mission          Task Manager                  10
Accounting Specialist
Audit Specialist
Informatics Specialist
HR and Training Specialist
Macro Economist
March 2000      Supervision Mission (coordinated   Task Manager                10
with panel of experts meeting)  Accounting Specialist
Audit Specialist
Informatics Specialist
HR and Training Specialist
Macro Economist
September 2000  Supervision Mission              Task Manager                  10
Accounting Specialist
Audit Specialist
Informatics Specialist
HR and Training Specialist
March 2001      Supervision Mission (coordinated   Task Manager                10
with panel of experts meeting)  Accounting Specialist
Audit Specialist
Informatics Specialist
HR and Training Specialist
Macro Economist
September 2001  Supervision Mission              Task Manager                  10
Accounting Specialist
Audit Specialist
Informatics Specialist
HR and Training Specialist
March 2002      ICR Mission (coordinated with   Task Manager                   10
panel of experts meeting)       Accounting Specialist
Audit Specialist
Informatics Specialist
HR and Training Specialist
.Macro Economist



ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 3
PAKISTAN
IMPROVEMENT TO FINANCIAL REPORTING AND AUDITING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE OBJECTIVES, CLASSIFICATION. ACTIVITIES AND OUTPUT
Objectives anid Classification              Activities                  Source and Duration                          Output
I                              ~~~~~~~~~~Foreign  Local
1  Strengthening the auditing    Review PAD audit policies processes and  70            10       i)  Revised audit policies, procedures, work allocation
function in Ihe PAD.       procedures, output, work-load, efficiency                             methods;
Classification Institutional                                                                 ii) Improved audit efficiency
Development
Perform quality assurance for PAD
auditing                                   8                      Improved quality assurance procedures
Advise on Methodologies to enhance
PAD's communicationis with stake           6            10        Methodologies for enhanced communications with
holders                                                           major stake holders
Advise on identification of areas for
Public/ Private sector cooperation         15                     Identified areas for public/ private sector cooperation
Intemal Audit of PAD's systems under
development                                6             10      Improved quality of information systems
Membership in the advisory Panel of
experts                                    2                      Input to PAD's advisory panel
Managing TA                                6            36        Efficient administration of TA



ANNEX 10
P'age 2 of 3
Objectives anl(d                       Activities                    Source and Duration                               Output
Classification       l                                           l   Foreign      Local   I
Development andl          Prepare detailed funictionial design; for the   110          100       Detailed functionial design for specified informiation
implementation of high    Core accounitinig, Payroll and pensions and                            systems; design of the technology architectLuiC for
priority application      the Cash forecasting systems; Specify the                              information systems; Tender documenits for H/W, S/W;
systems.                 technology architecture required for the                                Management of the Pilot systems implementationi and
Classitication:           implementation of these systems;                                      systems replication processes
Institutional             Investigate alternatives for application
Developimecit             Software; Assist in the procuremenit of
hardware and software; Assist in Systems
implementation- Pilot systems and first
phase replications
Classil-icationi:                                                                                Assistance to IPAD in the process of systems
Implemeniation assistanc  Consultancy for implementation assistance                    192       implementation and replication
3.  Humani Resouice           Job Analysis                                     3            5        Revised Job descriptions and performance standards
Management.
ClassiIicitlionl:
InstitLutionial           MIS constillanicy (I IRM)                                     6       M IS systemils tob I IRM planninig and moniitorinig
Deve lopmen it
Change Management consultancy                   12                    Consultinig assistance for managing the process of change
4.  Traininig.                Training needs analysis                         2.5           2        i)  Training needs for B- 18/19 officers
Classificationi:                                                                                ii) New training packages
Institutional                                                                                   iii) Revised training standards
Development                                                                                     iv) Training needs for probationers
Course design                                   2            2.5      Course designs for: i) B 18-19 training; ii) two years
probationers program; iii) FOTC courses
Training material development/ testing          10           22       Course material for i) accounting technicianis, BS 18/19
training, training of probationiers, revised training packlages
Quality control evaluation of training          1             5       i)  Revised systems to assess quality of training;
application of the new systems to evaluate training of
probationers, accounting technicians and overall impact of
training



ANNE3X 10
Vage 3 of 3
Objecti%es and       1                Activities                  Source and Duration                             Output
Classification                                                  Foreign         Local
5.  Macro economic studies.  Preparation of macroeconomic, financial    40          133         Agreed action plan to implemenit recomimenidations of
Classilication: Policy   policy, and diagnostic studies.                                    policy and diagnostic stidies.
Support
6   Privalte secbol finanicial    Provision of on-the-job specialized  6            20          Strengthnilied capacity for macroeconomliic modeling and
disclosure.              training in macro modeliig and short-tcrnm                         improved moniloring of poverty
Classilication: Policy  technical assistance for establishment o
Support                  poverty monitorinig nucleus.
7   Assislallce to Plaonning    EIconomic Policy Analysis Dizaginostic  13          44          Stidies and action plans to inipiove management of federal
Co'mimmiissioni          Study. Specialized on-the -job training                            and provincial developmenit expendiftirc; diagniostic study
Classifhication: I olicy                                                                    and action plan to streamlinie institutionial airanigemiients for
Support                                                                                     macroeconomic policy making; increased capacity for
poverty analysis and monitoring
8.  Future Project           Preparation of Future Project                 10           30      Project feasibility report and detailed documents
Preparation
Classification:
Implementation
Assistance



76
ANNEX I I
Page 1 of I
PAK1ITAN
IMPROVEMENT TO FINANCIAL REPORTING AND AUDITING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
1. Report on the effectiveness of the Pakistan Audit Department's component of the Third
Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1755 - Pak). Pakistan Audit Department, December, 1994.
2. Pakistan: Improving the Fiscal Reporting System, William Allan and Michael Woolley,
Fiscal Affairs Department, IMF, August 27. 1990.
3. Pakistan Audit Department, Diagnostic Consultancy Project, Price Waterhouse
a) Interim Report I, Detailed Analysis. November 7, 1992
b) Interim Report II, Proposed recommendations, November 25, 1992
c) Final Report, February 3, 1993
4. Pakistan Audit Department. Training Consultancy, CIPFA, March 1993
a) Overview Report
b) Technical Report 1. The Establishment of a Professional Body
c) Technical Report 2, Training Needs Analysis
d) Technical Report 3, A Strategy for Human Resource Management
5. Pakistan Audit Department, March 1995.
Strategies for:
a) Implementing an Improved Financial Reporting System
b) Implementing an effective Audit Function and Public-Private Partnership
c) Improving Human Resource Management
d) Implementing Computer based Information Systems to Support Government
Accounting, Audit, Human Resource Management and Office Automation
e) Training
6. Terms of reference for consultancy services for the development of accounting principles and
standards, and the development and implementation of core financial systems for the
Government of Pakistan.



IBRD 27293
60                               65                               70            /TAJIKISTAN  75;             /
J           '  :t'CCHINA
PAKISTAN                                                               ov
IMPROVEMENT TO FINANCIAL REPORTING
AND AUDITING PROJECT                                                                                 _/
*      AGPR OFFICE                                                            v
3       AG OFFICES                                                                          I ,....
35  f;  PILOT IMPLEMENTATION SITES                      AT\                                              Appromte  35
b Lin of Control
PROVINCE WIDE SYSTEM REPLICATION
.,  Peshawar         )ISLAMABAD       JAM
and KASHMIR
f59    NATIONAL CAPITAL
19    PROVINCE CAPITALS                                 j  
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                              !                                                    r
               _  . _   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                  S      )                                        A   #
RIVERS                                                                                Lahore \
30                                                               Q .1 A   Quetta                                                               300
% _                                                                                                    INDIA
ISLAMIC             \
REPUBLIC OF   I                                                  -
IRAN             '
0       100      200      300 Kilometers
25                                                                                         *                     100            200 Miles
S1NDH        /                                                    25'
Karachi   .
-.   _._ t-           ~ Tbis map woo prod,ced by the Mop Design Unit of T he
-  J                    World Bonk The boundaries. colors, denominatons and any
g                            other reformotson ho-n on this map do not imply, on the
part of The World Bo1k Group, any judgment on the legol
status of any territory or any endorsement
or acceptance of such boundaries
60                                    65-                                   70                                    75'
JULY 1996












