Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                 CREDIT NUMBER 2921 PAK
                         Development Credit Agreement
         (Improvement to Financial Reporting and Auditing Project)
                                    between
                          ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                                     and
                     INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated November 21, 1996
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2921 PAK
                         DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated November 21, 1996, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN, acting by its President, (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project.
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                               ARTICLE I
                    General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
     (a)  the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (b)  the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
          "Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
          agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
          expenditures in the territories of any country which is not
Page  2
          a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
          supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of
          any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of
          goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the
          Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United
          Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
          Charter of the United Nations."
     Section 1.02.  Unless the  context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the terms
have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Implementation Plan" means the plan for the implementation of
the Project agreed between the Borrower and the Association and set
forth in the letter of even date herewith;
     (b)  "PAD" means the Pakistan Audit Department of the Borrower
operating under the Pakistan Audit and Accounts Order 1973;
     (c)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an
exchange of letters dated March 3, 1995 between the Borrower and the
Association; and
     (d)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                               ARTICLE II
                               The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty
million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 20,100,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the National Bank of
Pakistan on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to
pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon
be canceled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of
Page  3
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph
(a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied
from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant
to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual
installments payable on each January 1 and July 1 commencing January
1, 2007 and ending July 1, 2031. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on July 1, 2016 shall be one and one-fourth percent
(1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant
1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall
consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may,
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the development
of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount
of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment
of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision
shall not change the grant element obtained under the abovementioned
repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may,
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment
to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                               ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial
and accounting practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
Page  4
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and the
Implementation Plan.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and
the achievement of the objectives thereof;
     (b)  prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation, and furnish to the Association, on or about April 30, 1999
reports integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recom-
mended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such
date; and
     (c)  review with the Association, by June 30, 1999 or such later
dates as the Association shall request, the reports referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and
recommendations of the said report and the Association's views in the
matter.
     Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Asso-
ciation, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan designed to
ensure the continued achievement of the Project's objectives; and
     (b)  afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section including those for the Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but
               in any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, a certified copy of the report of such
               audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
               detail as the Association shall have reasonably
               requested; and
Page  5
        (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
               concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
               as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
               request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association
               has received the audit for the fiscal year in which
               the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made,
               all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
               receipts and other documents) evidencing such expen-
               ditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
               upon to support the related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. The Borrower shall prepare a plan for the separation
of the Auditor General's accounting and audit functions by July 1, 2000,
and, to achieve the separation by that date, shall: (a) complete bifur-
cation of the Auditor General's audit and accounting functions by June
30, 1997; (b) complete detailed proposals for the functional separation
of audit and accounting by March 31, 1999; and (c) thereafter, take all
measures necessary to effect the separation of the said functions.
                               ARTICLE V
                       Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  that consultants have been appointed, pursuant to the
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, for purposes
of developing accounting standards and financial systems under Part A
of the Project; and
     (b)  a General Manager has been appointed, to the satisfaction of
the Association, in the Management Information Systems wing of PAD.
     Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                              ARTICLE VI
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic
Affairs Division, or any Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy
Secretary or Section Officer in the Economic Affairs Division of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the pur-
poses of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  6
     For the Borrower:
          The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
          Economic Affairs Division
          Islamabad, Pakistan
          Cable address:                  Telex:
               ECONOMIC                   ECDIV-05-634
                                          Islamabad
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                  Telex:
               INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
               Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                           64145 (WUI) or
                                           82987 (FTCC)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
               By /s/ Mansoor Elahi
                                               Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
               By /s/ Mieko Nishimizu
                                          Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              South Asia
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                    Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                480,000         90%
(2)  Equipment, vehicles,     5,390,000         100% of foreign
     office furniture                           expenditures, 100%
     and materials                              of local expenditures
                                                (ex-factory costs) and
                                                70% of local expendi-
                                                tures for other items
Page  7
                                                procured locally
(3)  Consultants' services   12,000,000         100%
     and training
(4)  Refunding of               560,000         Amount due pursuant
     Project Preparation                        to Section 2.02 (c) of
     Advance                                    this Agreement
(5)  Unallocated              1,670,000
                             __________
          TOTAL              20,100,000
                             ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.   The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures:
(a) under contracts not exceeding the equivalent of: (i) $100,000 for
goods and civil works, (ii) $100,000 for the services of consulting
firms, and (iii) $50,000 for the services of individual consultants;
and (b) for training, under such terms and conditions as the Asso-
ciation shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                               SCHEDULE 2
                       Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve public sector
accounting and financial systems; (b) provide a basis for enhancing
public sector accountability; and (c) support improvements to insti-
tutional capacity for economic policy-making and management.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to modifi-
cations thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:    Public Sector Accounting and Financial Institutional Support
     Strengthening of public sector accounting and financial systems
through:
1.   the development of accounting standards, reporting systems and
financial administrative procedures and capacity (including Information
Systems) that conform, as far as practicable, to internationally
accepted accounting principles, including construction of facilities
and provision and installation of equipment and computer software
necessary therefor;
2.   the upgrading of PAD's audit planning, implementation and documen-
tation capacity through the provision of technical assistance, equipment
and computer software; and
3.   the improvement of PAD's human resource base through: (a) the
provision of training and retraining and upgrading of training and
training facilities; and (b) the development of modalities for, and
utilization of, private sector auditing firms.
Page  8
Part B:   Economic Policy Institutional Support for the Borrower's
          Ministry of Finance and Planning Commission
1.   Carrying out of studies on economic and financial policy issues
related to the Borrower's on-going macroeconomic and structural reform
program.
2.   Carrying out of a diagnostic study of the Borrower's institutional
arrangements for macroeconomic policy-making.
3.   Provision of technical assistance and staff training to improve
the Borrower's economic policy-making institutions and strengthening
their capacity.
                        *         *         *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
                              SCHEDULE 3
                 Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
this Part B:
     (a)  Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower.
     (b)  Notification and Advertising
     The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with
the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of
the Guidelines.
Part C:    Other Procurement Procedures
1.   National Competitive Bidding
     (i)  Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per
contract; (ii) the computer system for the Software Development Center
of PAD; and (iii) all civil works, may be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4
of the Guidelines provided that the aggregate costs of (i), (ii) and
(iii) do not exceed $3,700,000 equivalent.
2.   National Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract
and $300,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
Page  9
Guidelines.
Part D:    Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement
of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on
the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued
by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not
apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equiva-
lent each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall
not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-
source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical
nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments to con-
tracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract
value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts
for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract
value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                               SCHEDULE 4
                         Implementation Program
1.   PAD shall during the period of Project implementation:
     (a)  continue to fill the following key posts with staff having
qualifications satisfactory to the Association: (i) Controller General
(Accounts); (ii) Deputy Auditor General (Government Audit); (iii)
General Manager (Management Information Systems); (iv) Director General
(Human Resource Management); and (v) Director General (Training);
     (b)  designate and maintain a Project Director, satisfactory to
the Association, with overall responsibility for the Project
implementation;
     (c)  employ within the Project directorate, a Project Coordinator
and a Deputy Project Coordinator, with qualifications satisfactory to
the Association, and other staff necessary for the carrying out of the
directorate's functions; and
     (d)  subject to satisfactory performance, retain the incumbents
appointed to posts referred to in subparagraphs (a) and (b) above for
a minimum period of three years.
Page  10
2.   For purposes of  carrying out studies and technical assistance
under Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that its
Ministry of Finance and Planning Commission establish, not later than
December 31, 1996, project management arrangements satisfactory to the
Association.
3.   The Borrower shall, not later than January 31 in each year,
beginning in 1997, review and update the Implementation Plan in
consultation with the Association and, thereafter, carry out the
updated plan to the satisfaction of the Association.
4.   PAD shall establish by December 31, 1996 and, thereafter, retain
during the implementation of the Project, an international panel of
experts for purposes of the Project with membership and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Association.
                               SCHEDULE 5
                             Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 through 3
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time
to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $1,200,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$600,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 6,000,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits
               into the Special Account at such intervals as the
               Association shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents
               and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of
               which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
               such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
Page  11
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid out
               of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into
the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Asso-
ciation, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii)
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit
of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to
the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to
the eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expendi-
tures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or
in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower
has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
     (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such out-
standing amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Page  12
Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancelation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
