Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9073-MLI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
MARCH 5, 1991
Africa Region
Sahelian Department
Agriculture Division
F       ~~~This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc
US$ 1.00 = CFAF 253 (as of January 1991)
We.ghts and Measures
Metrie System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMFFCL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONY S
AV        Village Association
(Association Villageoise)
BNDA      National Agricultural Development Bank
(Banque Nationale de Développement Agricole)
CMDT      Malian Cotton Company
(Compagnie Malienne pour le Développement des Textiles)
DNA       National Directorate of Agriculture
(Direction Nationale de l'Agriculture)
DNAFLA    National Directorate of Functional Literacy and Applied
Linguistics
(Direction Nationale de l'Alphabétisation Fonctionnelle et de la
Linguistique Appliquée)
DNGR      National Rural Engineering Directorate
(Direction Nationale du Génie Rurale)
IER       Rural Economics Institute
(Institut d'Economie Rurale)
ISNAR     International Service for National Agricultural Research
MA        Ministry of Agriculture
(Ministère de l'Agriculture)
MNE       Hinistry of Environment and Livestock
(Ministère de l'Environnement et de l'Elevage)
ODEM      Mopti Region Livestock Development Agency
(Opération de Développement de l'Elevage à Mopti)
ODIK      Kaarta Development Agency
(Opération de Développement Integré du Kaarta)
ODIPAC    Groundnut and Cereal Development Agency
(Office de Développement Intégré des Productions Arachidières et
Céréalières)
ODR       Rural Development Operations
(Opération de Développement Rural)
0KV       Opération Haute-Vallée
ON        Office du Niger
OPAN      National Office for Agricultural Products
(Office des Produits Agricoles du Mali)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by rocipients only in the performance
of their oMfial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dhsclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



ORM       Mopti Rlice Developmmnt Agency
(Opération Ris Mopti)
ORS       Ségou Rlice Dovelopment Agency
(Opération Riz Ségou)
PRPAB     Baguineda Agricultural Rehabilitation Project
(Projet de Réhabilitation Périmatre Agricole Baguineda)
8N8       Subject Matter Specialist
SNPV      National Plant Protection Service
(Service National de Protection des Végétaux)
VEW       Village Extension Vorker



MALT
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PaRu
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .................. ................. (j> - (ii)
I.  BACKGROUND
A.  Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
B.  The Agricultural Sector   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
C.  Government Sector Strategy  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
D.  Agricultural Institutions   . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
E.  Bank's Lending Operations and Strategy  . . . . . . .    4
F.  The Pilot Agricultural Extension Project  . . . . . . . . 5
Il.  AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND OTHER SUPPORT SERVICES
A.  Agricultural Extension  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
B.  Agricultural Research   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
C.  Functional Literacy             ................        7
D.  Village Associations  ................                  7
III. THE PROJECT
A.  Objectives and Rationale    . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
B.  SwaDmary Description          . . . . . . . .           8
C.  Detailed Features   . . . . . . . ...                   9
1.  Agricultural and Livestock Extension Services  .    9
2.  Functional Literacy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
3.  Training   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . *    .  .    .  12
4.  Monitoring and Evaluation  . . . . . . . . . . .   13
5.  Accounting and Financial Management  . . . . . .   13
6.  Civil Works, Vehicles and Equipment  . . . . . .   13
D.  Project Cost and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13
1.  Project Cost   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    13
2.  Project Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
E.  Procurement         *            . . . . . . . . . .   15
F.  Diabursements                 ............    16
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Mali in May/June 1990 comprising Messrs. Jiri Cerych, Financial Analyst
(mission leader); Quan Minh Doan, Extension Specialiets Jacques Fremy,
Training Specialist; and Mrs. Jann Masterson, Operations Assistant.  Kr. V.
Venkatesan, AFTAG Extension Specialist, vas the lead advisor. Ms. Marie-
Claire Tsang, Staff Assistant, provided secretarial support in the
preparation of the report. Mr. David Steeds and Ms. Katherine Marshall are
the managing Division Chief and the Department Director, respectively for
the operation.



Table of Contents (continued)                                  DaUe
IV.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A.  Overall Project Organisation and Management   . . . .   17
1.  Extension    .  .  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  17
2.  Monitoring  . . . . . . . . . . . ..  . . . . ..   18
3.  Functional Literacy Training  . . . . . . . . .   19
E.  Civil  Works  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  -  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  19
C.  Financial Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
D.  Environmental Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
E.  Project Supervision   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
V.  BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.  Project Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
B.  Justification and Affordability . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
C.  Project  Risks  .  .  .  .  . .   .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  23
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS   . . . . . . . . . . 23
ANNEXES
Annex la Extension Pilot Project
Annex 2t Crop Extension Themes
Annex 3:  Livestock Extension Themes
Annex 4s Project Cost Tables
- Table 1: Project Cost Summary
- Table 2s Summary Account by Project Component
- Table 3: Summary Accounts by Year
- Table 4s Summary Accounts Cost Summary
Annex 5s  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of IDA Credit
Annex 6: Supervision Plan
Annex 7s Costs and Benefits
Annex 8s Documents contained in the Project File
MAP
IBRD No. 22458



(M)
MALI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower        s   Republic of Mali
Benefic&aries  s    Farmers and herders, Mlnistries of Agriculture,
and Environment and Livestock
Amount          s    SDR 18.3 million (Us$24,4 million)
Terme           s    Standard, with 40 years maturity.
Proiect
DeScription    t    The project reprecents the firet four-year timeslice
of a long-term national program designed to strengthen
agricultural, livestock and forestry extension with a
view to generate increased agricultural production and
sustained growth of farmers' and herders' incomes.
The project builde on experience gained during the
implementation of the pilot project. The main
elements of the program are: (i) efficient
organization of extension services, provided vith
adequate human and physical resources, at the farmer,
regional and national levels; (ii) regular and
continuous training of responsîble officials at each
level by means of a system of fortnightly, monthly and
annual training sessions; (iii) strengthening of the
linkages between the extension services and the
national and regional research services; (iv)
strengthening of relations between the crop farming,
livestock and environment services; (v) functional
literacy and numeracy training both for men and vomen.
Investment vould be mns (a) civil works; (b) vehicles
and equipment; (c) incremental operating costs; (d)
on-farm research; (e) trainlng; and (f) short-term
technical assistance to establish and periodically
supervise a project accounting and budgeting system.
Economic Rate
of Return    s   Not applicable.
Beneflts
ad Risk4 s    s    The project vill contribute to the vell-being of a
large number of rural families and to the agricultural
sector overall. About 45Z of the rural population
(450,000 families) would be reached by improved crop,
livestock and forestry extension services, but how
many of these households would choose to adopt



(1i)
recommended practices cannot be estimated with any
precision. More specifically, project benefits should
manifest themselves ln three main areass (a)
production and pruductivity of both the crop and
livestock sectorss reorganized and strengthened crop,
livestock and forestry extension services should
provide farmers and herders - both men and vomen -
vith new and effective ways to $mprove their standards
of living; (b) autonomy and self-reliance with the
help of literacy programe, farmers and herdors vill be
better able to manage their resources and investments
independently; (c) human resour<es:  the project
strongly emphasizes training and continuing education
programs for farmers, herders and government staff.
The project vould strengthen researchlextension links,
and promote a two-way flow of information between
producers and technicians. The risks ares (a) the
possible inability of extension and research services
to produce workable solutions to farmers' and herders'
problems; (b) problems of inter-agency coordinationg
and (c) the possible failure of GoveLnment andlor
donors to sustain the long-term commitment required to
achieve durable _aprovements in the effectivenes. of
agricultural support services. To mlnimize these
risks, the lessons learned during the pilot project
implementation have been built into the project
design. Financial and management capabilities vill be
strengthened and annual reviews of vork plans and
budgets, as vell as the mid-term $mpleme-ntation review
and close Bank supervision vill provide an adequate
number of opportunities for program review and long-
term commitment building.



(iii)
Estimated Comte and Financina Plan
Estimated Costs m                 ------(US$ million)-------
Local      Foreign    Totrl
Extension
- Agricultural Dept.               6.8         6e6      13.4
- Livestock Department             1.7         2.0       3.7
- Forestry Department              1.0         1.0       2.0
Oi-Farm Research                    0.3         0.5       0.8
Monitoring and Evaluation           0.6         0.5        1.1
Functional Literacy and
Support to Village Assoc.          2.0         0.3       2.3
Refinancing of PPF                  -           1.5       1.5
Base Costa                         12.4        12.4      24.8
Physical Contingencies            0.2         0.6       0.8
Price Contingencies               1.1         0.4       1.5
Total Project Costs                ii          à"        a"L
a/ Net of identifiable taxes and duties
Financina Plans                    Local      Foreimn    Total
-------(US$ million)------
Government                          1.8         0.9       2.7
IDA                                11.9        12.5      24.4
Total                               _           _
Estimated IDA Disbursemente
IDA Fiscal Year
92        93        9495
---------------(US$ million)…--------------
Annual                         7.S       5.7       5.4        5.2       O.C
Cumulative                     7.5      13.2      18.6      23.8       24.4



S. EACRGROUND
A.   Introduction
1.01      Early ln 1988, Goverument requested IDA to help set up and
finance a pilot extension project because the existing agricultural
extension services vere not performing satisfactorily and extension
organization and practices varied widely as a conseQuence of oarlier area
development projecte.  The results of the pilot project vere highly
promising, and the Government requestod IDA's assistance ln financing a
project aimed at extending the pilot project approach to cover most of the
cultivated land except the cotton reglon, where reaeonably effective
extension services are provlded by the cotton promotion company CMDT.
B.   The Agricultural Sector
1.02      Agriculture ln Mall ie based primarily on rainfed cultivation,
although important irrigation schemes exiet for rice cultivation. Cereals,
mostly sorghum/millet and maize, are the muet Important crops. They are
grown by 90 percent of farmers and contribute about 20 percent of GDP.
Cereals are primarily cultivated for home consumption; only about 20
percent of total production ls marketed. Rice le also important ln
consumption, particularly in urban areas. It is grown in large-scale
irrigation schemes (mainly the Office du Niger, Operation Riz Mopti and
Operation Riz Segou) and in low-land cultivation. Cotton is the most
important cash crop. It i Mall's major export crop, represents about 9
percent of Mali's agricultural output and provides about 45 percent of
foreign exchange earnlnge. Groundnuts and maize are other, less important
cash crope, grown for domestic consumption in southern areas of Mall.
Annual growth rates fluctuate widely as a result of large variations in the
amount and distribution patterns of annual rainfall. Agricultural output
declined ln particular during the 1982-1984 drought period but has since
recovered strongly due to several good raifall years and the improvedi
policy environuent. Mali is today essentially self-sufficient in the
production of coarse grains although $t vas heavily dependent on commercial
and food aid importe during the 1982-1984 drought years.
1.03      After cotton, livestock is the most Important agricultural
export, accouuting for about 30 percent of total exports and 20 percent of
total GDP. Livestock is an important component of all agricultural
production systeme. The Tuareg, Tamashek and some Peul tribesmen in the
Sahel North of the country are pure pastoraliets derivlng their livelihood
from herding livestock.  Farmers in the central and southern part of the
country use livestock, mainly oxen, for traction and manure for enhancing
soil fertilityv Llvestock production un Mali is bas$cally a low-lnput low-
output system pr$marily depending on extensive grazing of the natural
pasture. There are only a few large-scale, intensive commercial dairy asd
poultry farms around Bamako and other urban conters.
1.04      Malil's agricultural production potential la threatened by a
deteriorating natural resource base. Population pressures,
desertification, poverty, farming practices which unduly strain the



- 2 -
resource base, and increased livestock herde competing vtth agriculture for
land all endanger the eustainability of the system. Marginal land is
incressingly brought under cultivation and 'allow periode, recently adhered
to for reconstitution of soile, are abandoned. Resource degradation le
reflect'id in docreasing yields ln those areas vhich have been under
cultivation for many years. It is al80 reflected In continued depletion of
land Ln the northern areas. Improved land management practices as vell as
the opening up of new productive areas vill be needed to mare room for the
increasing population and to slow down this degradation process.
C. Goverrment Sector Stratea,
1.05      The three key objectives of Mali's agricultural policy are the
promotion and diversification of agricultural production, the achievement
of increased food security, and the improvem*nt of natural resource
management. Major stepF have been taken in recent years to enhance
production incentives, liberalize cereaL. marketing, and restructure the
cotton sector.
1.06      With regard to pricing, the Government's policy is that
transactions should take place at market-determined rather than
administered prices. The official prices for coarse grains vere thus
abolished in 1988, and the official price for paddy vas abolished in 1990;
however, the minimum guaranteed producer price of the Office du Niger
continues to be established in conformity vith its current performance
contract vith the Government. This contract, however, iL expected to be
revised during 1991.
1.07      With regard to marketing, the role of the cereals marketing
agency, OPAM, vas circumscribed ln 1989. Its new role iL defined in a
performance contract between OPAM and the Government. The recently signed
SECAL (Credit 2163-MLI) includes the consolidation of the program to
liberalize cereals pricing and marketing, as reflected in an amended
performance contract between OPAM and the Goverument for the 1989190
season, and again in the new three-year (1991-1993) performance contract.
The Government viii continue to pursue its liberal cereals export policy,
except in the event of a national emergency.
1.08      To improve Mali's food securîty, the Governmont has started to
rehabilitate the Office du Niger, Mali's largest public irrigation system,
vith financial support from the World Bank and cofinanciers. During 1990-
94, lt vill continue to implement the rehabilitation program, which aime at
raising the productivity of the Office by strengthening its managerial
capacity, restructuring its finances, improving the maintenance of existing
infrastructure, and rehabilitating part of the irrigation network. There
vill also be a major transfer of responsibilities to farmers, village
associations, and other private operators. Accelerated privatization of
all aspects of Office du Niger activity related to marketing and processing
of rice vill be sought by the Bank in the context of the new performance
contract scheduld to be effective by November 1991. The Government is nov
reviewing the statue of the remaining rural development agencies (ODRs) to
determine those to be liquidated and those to be rehabilitated, consistent



- 3 -
with the broad principles of streamllning their services and reducing their
burden on the budget.
1.09      Mali's eotcon sector has undergone major reforas, in response to
developments ir the world market. The measures taken have led to increased
efficiency and have resulted in a financial surplus for the 1988/89 and
1989190 harvest:s. To reform the cotton sector further, a medium-term plan
of action has leen developed and finalized in the form of a performance
contract between CMDT and the Government. It provides for increased
managerial Independence for CMDT; a revision of the tax policy for the
cotton sector, including the elimination of export taxes; the introduction
of flexibility in the determination of producer pricest and the
establishment of an independent stabilization fund.
1.10      As to the environment, the Government le concerned about the
increasing land degradation, which represents the single most serlous
environmental problem in Mali. It is intensified by the growing pressure
resulting from increased agricultural production and population growth.
Accordingly, the Government plans to take steps to improve land and natural
resource management and to develop ecologically sound ctop, forestal, and
livestock production systems. Its basic strategy for improved natural
resource management is to increase the capacity of local communities to
manage their own resources. The Bank intends to help trie Government in its
efforts by a Natural Resources Management Project (FY92).
D.   Apricultural Ifatitutions
1.11      At the national level, responsibility for promoting rural
development is shared by three ministerial departments and various
development agencies attached to thems the Ministry of Agriculture, the
Ministry of Environment and Livestock, and the Ministry of the Interior and
Regional Development. Three other ministries are involved in rural
development indirectlys Health and Social Affairs; Plans and Industry,
Hydraulics and Energy.
1.12      The Ministrv of Airiculture comprises four main departments
which cover all activities geared to agricultural developmentt the National
Directorate of Agriculture (DNA), the National Rural Engineering
Directorate (DNGR), the Rural Economics Institute (IER), and the National
Plant Protection Service (SNPV). Operational activities in the field vere
generally entrusted to autonomous agencies called Rural Development
Operations' (ODRs) and Offices. The tasks of these agencies vill
undoubtedly evolve with the new policy of governnent withdraval from
project execution, the management of infrastructure being entrusted to
their users through village associations.
-    The DNA le responsible for supervising all rural development
operations and has field offices in each region. It has
responsibility essentially for all matters related to extension,
organization and training at the individual project level. It
administers all the extension and management personnel of the
agencies attached to it.



-4-
-    The DNGR is responsible mainly for agricultural and rural vater
works, rural construction works and farm equipment and machinery. It
is particu'arly active ln the area of preparatory studies for
irrigation projecte.
-    The IER is responsible for conducting the necessary socioeconomic
studies for project monitoring and evaluations for setting
agricultural policy, and for agronomic research and basic seed
production.
-    The SNPV is responsible for all activities for combating crop pestas
equipment support, organization, tra-.ning, and extension concerning
pest control methode.
1.13      The Ministrv of Environment and Livestock is responsible for
promoting animal production and for activities concerning forestry,
fishing, and flora and soil protection and conservation. For these
purposes it has two main departments, the National Directorate of Livestock
and the National Directorate of Forestry and Water Resources. These two
departments have field offices in each region. Autonomous projects are
also attached to them.
1.14      The Ministrv of the Interior and Reaional Development is
responsible inter alia for implementing Mali's national policy of
organization of the rural areas into village associations. For this
purpose it has a National Directorate of Cooperative action, which operates
la the field through its regional and subregional field offices. Its task
1s to furnish support in many forms for activities of the Cooperative
System such as: rural credit, supply of inputs, supply of basic food
products, primary marketing of farm produce and technical assistance.
1.15      Other national directorates not attached to the above-mentioned
technical departments ircludes
-    the National Agricultural Development Bank (BNDA), which
provides credit for agricultures
-    the National Directorate of Functional Literacy and Applied
Linguistics, which furnishes technical support for
implementation of functional literacy programs for the rural
population.
E.   Bank's Lendina Operations and Stratemy
1.16      As of December 31, 1990, IDA had extended 46 credits to Mali
(including Africa Facility, Special Funds and Supplementary Credits)
totallinig US$ 703 million equivalent. Of these operations, 15 have been
for agriculture and related activities; 9 for transport; 4 for education,
two each for telecommunications, energy, urban development, power, svater
supply and technical assistances one each for small scale industries and
health5 one adjustment credit in the public enterprise sector; and two
hybr.d adjustment/linvestment operations in the education and agriculture
sectors. A first IDA structural adjustment credit vas approved by the



Board in December 1990. In addition IFC ha. made two investments totalling
US$ 2.5 million.  Project implementation has been mixed, In sme cases.
with delays in implementation and disbursements caused by institutional
iseues and veaknesses of executing agencois whieh took considerable time to
resolve, and inadequate government counterpart funding.
1.17      Amonget agricultural projects, remarkably successful vere the
two Mall Sud projects where cotton production exceeded appraisal targets by
more than 40Z. The functional literacy programs which vere part of all of
the recent agricultural project. vere also highly succeseful in making a
valuable contribution to the eetablishment and self-management of farmers'
village/pastoral associations. These associations have taken on tasks
which vere at the charge of goverument in the past thus reducing
substantially administrative comte and, simultaneously increasing their
members' incomes.
1.18      Future lending for agricultural development will give particular
emphasis to inereasing and diversifying agricultural production through
improved extension and research programe. The proposed project addresses
improvement of agricultural extension; a project addressing agricultural
research is under preparation. Mali's agricultural production potential le
to be safeguarded through a natural resource management project (FY92)
consisting of site-specific land management plans to be designed with and
implemented by village communities. The efficient development of Malil's
vast irrigation potential remains a priority and emphasis is being given to
vork on improving the incentive framevork for private irrigation,
rehabilitation of existing infrastructure and the efficient use of existing
irrigation facilities. Support for these efforts is to be provided through
an irrigation sector credit (FY94).
F.   The Pilot Aaricultural Extension Pr'iect
1.19      Early in 1988, the Government requested IDA's assistance in
setting up a Pilot Agricultural Extension Project vith the objective of
improving the effectivenees of extension in Mali. ImplementatJon started
in the 1988/89 season in three regions covered by tbree rural development
agencies, namely Opération Riz Segou in the Segou area, Opération Riz Mopti
in the Mopti area and Office du Niger in the Niono area.  The project vas
extended ln the 1989/90 season to the areas covered by Regional Agriculture
Directorates of Mopti, Kayes and Koulikoro and the ODR of the Haute Vallée.
1.20      The implementation of the pilot project vas coordinated by the
National Directorate of Agriculture (DNA). Financing vas provided by
Governament (salaries), by two on-going IDA-financed projects (Office du
Niger Cr. 1906 and Mopti Area Development Cr. 1597) and by a PPF. The
results of the project vere evaluated by a team of the Ministry of
Agriculture and the Ministry of Environment and Livestock. The overall
conclusion of this evaluation vas highly positive vith substantial
increases in yields on test plots in the farmer's fields as compared to
areas where the extension recommendations vere not applied. A detailed
description of the pilot project implementation and results is in Annez 1.



II.  AGRICULSU^L EXTENSIPN AUOTER SUPPORT SERVICES
A. Aarieultural Extension
2.01      Agricultural extension has a long history in Mali.  Already in
1928 the agricultural service of the period organized the training of
"Mqdtres LaboureursO at M'Pessoba and Baraouli with the objective of
extending the use of animal traction in cultivation of traditional and
newly introduced crops. Starting in 1945 agricultural se'vices became more
structured with the establishment of agricultural sectors and subsectors.
Activity of the services vas, however, administrative in nature and there
vas no effort to seek the participation of the rural population. The
extension staffing moreover vas one agent for about 20-30,000 rural
inhabitants. Only the Office du Niger possessed a relatively adequate
number of staff, albeit poorly trained. After independence, as a result of
the political decision to collectivize agricultural production, Government
actions in tke rural sector favored cooperative action to the detriment of
extension and vocational training. These attempte ended in failure.
During the following years the government entrusted agricultural
development responsibilities to more autonomous agencies called Programs*
which operated in more homogenous areas (cereal zone, groundnut zone,
cotton zone). This approach led in the late sixties to the concept of
Rural Development Operations (ODRs) based on an integrated development
approach.
2.02      From 1967 to 1980 extension and supervision services to the
rural areas vere provided by 18 ODRs and 3 *offices, as vell as various
autonomous development projects and rural development activities. The
regional agricultural directorates vere retained, assuming responsibility
for the areas not covered by the ODRs. In the eighties, financial
difficulties, both domestic and external, the gap between initial ambitions
and actual results and the effects of the drought combined to create a
situation of crisis in the ODRs. In 1979 the Government therefore decided
to undertake an in-depth study of the ODRs, the conclusion of which pointed
to the need to restructure them. This action is nov in progress. It vas
against this background that Mali, vith the support of the World Bank,
initiated the agricultural extension test program in March 1988.
B.   Aaricultural Research
2.03      In terms of human resources, the Malian agricultural research is
one of the largest in S-ab-Saharan Africa, vith some 350 researchers of
which 90Z are Malians. 290 of this total vork for institutions vith means
to perform adequate research. These institutions ares (a) l'Institut
d'Economie Rural (IER) founded in 1960, presently attached as an
independent department to the Ministry of Agriculture. IER has some 160
full-time research scientiste and specialises primarily in crop production
research and production systeme research and accessorily in studies
concerning development and planification of agriculture; (b) l'Institut
National de la Recherche Zootechnique, Forestière et Hydrobiologique
created in 1981, presently attached as an independent department to the
Ministry of Environment and Livestock. This Institute has some 90 full-
time research scientists. The principal research fields are genetic



- 7 -
improvements of livestock and animal nutrition, and forestry Md
environment; (c) less important instttutions controlled by either of the
above ministries such as the Agricultural Equipment Division, Central
Veterinary Laboratories and the Malian Directorate of Livestock and Meat
employ some 40 full-time research scientists. The remaining 60 positions
are part of the higher education system, namely the Institut Polytechnique
Rural* and 'Ecole Normale Supérieure*.
2.04      The Malian Agricultural Research System and research
organization is presently under review with the help of IS8AR. ISNAR's
contract calls for assistance to the Government in setting up a strategy of
evolution of the present system. This implies the preparation of a long-
term plan which would define long-term research priorities and identify an
action plan for restructuring the present system and the institutions in
place. The first stage of ISNAR's work consisting of a detailed analysis
of the present system and institutions has been completed (January 1990);
the second stage consisting of the long-term plan is expected to be
completed by June 1991.
C.   Functional Literacv
2.05      Functional literacy in Mali is the responsibility of the
Direction Nationale de l'Alphabetisation Fonctionnelle et de la
Linguistique Appliquée, which vas created in 1975 as an independent
department of the Ministry of Education and has since achieved an excellent
reputation. Central management is organized around four principal
divisions: (i) Linguistic and Pedagogic Research; (iI) Functional Literacy;
<iii) Promotion of Women; and (iv) surveys and evaluation. This Department
has produced over the years a large number of publications and brochures
sover 150) in several national languages. Permanent staff (civil servants)
amounts to about 85 persons and total staff to 115 persons. DNAPLA's 1990
budget amounted to CFAF 88 million of which over 92Z were salaries. The
aumber of functional literacy and post funetional literacy centers varies
from year to year vith, as many as 4,000 centers and over 7,000 trainers
(animateurs) in a given year.
D.   Village Associations
2.06      Village Associations (AVB), which are considered by the
Governnment as a key factor of rural development, have a long history in
Mali. Already in 1935 Farmer Associations vere organized by the Office du
Niger. Their function varied according to their location and season and
essentially consisted of organizing grain reserves and storage,
distribution of seed, marketing of grains and realization of small vorks of
interest to the collectivity. Under CMDT leadership the setting up of AVs
started in 1974 and their present number, in the CMDT region, is over 950.
Nearly all the ODR followed CMDT's example and strongly supported the
creation of village associations throughout the country. The present
overall number is over 2,730.
2.07      The current functions and activities of the AVs vary according
to the regions, traditions, emancipation of the AV members, and the ODR or
Regional Directorate of Agriculture in charge of regional rural



- 8 6
development. "n the more advanced AVM, activities could include primary
marketing, cridit distribution and recovery, input distribution,
construction and management of coumunal grain storage, processing of grains
and management of village velle. The activities of some of the less
developed AVs are lirited to ouly one or two of the functions mentioned
above.  Functional literacy and numeracy of some of the AV members is
essential for a sustained development - and management - of the AVe and the
need for training is generally well perceived by the rural population. The
role of vamen in the day-to-day activities of the village associations and
their management i st lll limited because of cultural traditions and
religious beliefs. However, vomen do participate In a good number of
villages in the literacy and numeracy training classes which should
progressively lead to their greater emancipation and assumption of
responsibilities so far exercised by men.
SIS. TEE PROJECT
A.   Oblectives and Rationale
3.01      The project is a four-year timeslice of a long-term national
program. Its principal objective is to improve farmers' and herders'
incomes sad to diminish rural poverty. The project vill help to achieve
this by improving the effectiveness of agricultural extension, by improving
the linkage between research and extension and by providing support to
village associations through functional literacy and numeracy training.
B. Summarv Descrintion
3.02      The project represents the firet four-year phase of a long-term
national program designed to strengthen agricultural, livestock and
forestry extension with a view to generate increased agricultural
production and sustained growth of farmers' and herders' incomes. The
project vill build on experience gained during the implementation of the
pilot project. The main elements of the program ares
(a) efficient organization of extension services, provided with
adequate human and physical resources, at the farmer, regional
and national levels;
(b)  regular and continuous training of responsible officials at each
level by means of a system of fortnightly, monthly and annual
training sessions, including training courses held outside Mali
or conducted by external participants;
(c) strengthening of the linkages between the extension services and
the national and regional research services in order to find
solutions to the farmers' problems. Technical problems such as
those related to soil and water conservation, diversification of
production through cropping systeme adapted to particular
ecologic zones and to the environment, sail fertility, sad



,9_
ecologically adapted varieties vill receive priority under the
adaptive reeearch programst
(d)  strengthening of relations between the crop, livestock and
environment services so as to ensure effective extension support
for the agricultural, livestock and forestry development
programs;
(e) functional literacy and numeracy training both for men and
women, including stepped-up promotion of participation by vomen
to enable them to play a more active role in rural development
and to assume progressively a greater role in village
association activities and management.
3.03      Investment vould be in (a) civil vorks; (b) vehicles and
equipment; (c) incremental operating cost; (d) on-farm research; (e)
training; and (f) short-term technical assistance to establish and
periodically supervise a project accounting and budgeting system.
3.04      The project aims at covering 60t of the country's agricultural
land other than the Cotton areas covered by CMDT. About 45Z of the rural
population (450,000 families) vould be reached by improved crop, livestock
and forestry extension services.
3.05      The project will be implemented by the Directorate of
Agriculture of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Directorate of Livestock
and the Directorate of Forestry and Water Resources of the Ministry of
Environment and Livestock, and by ODRo in the regions where the ODRs vill
be maintained by Government. The overall coordination of implementation
vill be by the Directorate of Agriculture. The project is expected to `)e
completed by March 31, 1995.
C.   Detailed Peatures
Aaricultural and Livestock Extension Services
3.06      The project vould reinforce and reorganize the agricultural
services by applying the experiences acquired during the past years through
the pilot extension program (Paras. 1.19-1.20 and Annex 1). The
Government's aim is to extend the adopted oystem progressively to the whole
country except to the Sikasso region where extension is provided by the
cotton development agency CMDT. The credit would help to finance extension
only in those areas where extension is not financed by other projects (such
as ON, OHV, ODIK). In case the ongoing reform of the existing ODRs would
result ln a liquidation of some of them, their present extension activity
vould be taken over by the Regional Directorate of Agriculture.
3.07      The Ministry of Environment and Livestock vill participate In
the extension program through its National Directorates of Livestock (DNE)
and of Forestry and Water Resources (DNEF). During the first two years of
implementation DNE will conduct a test in three regions (Mopti, Segou and
Koulikoro) aimed at multiple objectives including improved feeding methods,



- 10 -
intensification of animal production, herd management and animal health.
An interim evaluation of the results of the Test program vill be done at
the end of the second year of implementation as part of the project mid-
term evaluation.
3.08      Although the number of agents involved directly in the project
vill substantially increase over the life of the project because of
additional new areas covered, no new staff is expected to be hired by the
Ninistry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Environmant and Livestock.  All
potential vacancies vill be filled by transfers and redeployment of staff
already employed by the same ministries.  The projected staffing is
detailed in the folloving table.
Staff Involved in the Prolect Extension Work
DU  il QDR 21 ON    ODIPAC   TOTAL
Village Extension Workers         Y1    249      164      46      40       499
Y4    476     286      77      76       915
Field Supervision                 Y1      67      33      12      12       124
Y4    104      52      12      15       183
Monitoring Evaluation Unit         Y1     39      21      12       7        79
Y4     57      33      12      13       115
Local Coordination                Y1      19      12       6       7        44
Y4     23      14       6       7        50
Subject Matter Specialist         Y1      25      23       9       9        66
Y'4    25      24       9      10        68
Regional Coordination             Y1       6       5       1       1        13
Y4      6        5      1       1        13
il 6 Regional Ag. Directorates
21  ORS, OR, OHV, ODIK
3.09      The above extension staff numbers are based on the folloving
principles:
-    1 village extension vorker (VEW) per 5 villages in non-irrigated
areas and 1 to 2 villages in irrigated areas
-    1 supervisor for 4 to 5 VEWs
-    1 subject matter specialist for 20 to 30 VEWs.
These ratios vould be applied flexibly to take into account regional
characteristica. The high ratio of supervisors to VEWs is justified by the
considerable distances between villages in some of the regions. The ratios



- il 
would be periodically reviewed iu order toi6chieve the highest possible
coat efficiency.
3.10      The extension system vhich vill be applied will includes Si)
establishîng and adopting a time bound and supervised vork programi  (ii)
providing regular and continuous training to staff at all levels; and Ciii)
strengthening the links between extension and research. Extension vorkers
will be trained to be polyvalent so that the farners have only one
interlocutor. The professional profile of the VEW will, however, vary
depending on whether they vill work la predominantly farming or livestock
areas. Participation of vomen ln farmers' groups, already taking place in
some parts of the country, vill be encouraged wherever possible.  Where
relevant the extension messages vill include messages addressing their
particular agricultural concerns. Extension vill closely collaborate
vith - and foster the creation of - village associations. The content of
extension messages has largely been Ldentified during the pilot project; Lt
vill be further developed in close collaboration vith research.
3.11      There la currently an adequate body of low-coat, proven
technologies ready for transfer to farmers and herders. Other technical
innovations, the results of which are still in the research station stage,
vill be tested on farms to 8enerate additional techuical messages. Annexes
2 and 3 list the technical messages currently available and those needing
to be farm-tested. Continuous close linkage vith research in the future
vll be essential to ensure sustained progress.
3.12      Geographicàl coverase.  By the end of year 4 of implementation,
tihe project is acheduled to cover 60Z of Nalian agricultural land other
than the Sikasso region (3rd) where extension ls administered by CMDT.
Extension in the areas under the administration of the Office du Niger vill
follow the harmonization principles agreed upon by the various donors and
the Office. Expressed in villages affected by the project by region, the
project coverage vill be as followvs
Number of         Number of villages
Region                  villages           directlv affected
Kayes (lot)                1328                   797
Koulikoro (2nd)             829                   711
Segou (4th)                 779                   470
Mopti (5th)                 2019                 1272
Tombouctou (6th)            203                   129
Gao (7th)                   173                   104
TOTAL                      5331                  3483
3.13      Linkage with Research.  To ensure continuous and effective
linkage vith research, the project vould assist IER to plan and supervise
field trials. It is expected that at full project implementation some 30
field trials per region vill be undertaken.  The project vould finance the
required vehicles for IER researchers as vell as the needed inputs.  The
trial program timetable and locations of the trials vill be agreed upon
between IER and DNA on a yearly basia.



- 12 -
Functional Literacy
3.14      The functional literacy component vill be executed under the
leadership of DNAFLA. Functional literacy components managed by DNAPLA of
other Bank-financed projects in Mali vere generally highly s.ccessful.  The
proposed functional literacy training will be implemented during the
projoct period in 400 villages to be chosen on the basis of a survey to be
done by DNAFLA during the 1990/91 cropping season.  The functional literacy
classes vill be supplemented in the later project years by more advanced
classes in basic community management and accounting, and nutrition and
health. The project would finance the basic equipment required, and
pedagogical needs such as books and paper. Vehicles (mopeds, motorcycles,
plus one car) vould alo be financed for the DNAFLA staff involved in the
project.
3.15      The proposed functional literacy and numeracy component vill
result over the life of the project in a substantial increase of DNAFLA's
activity and operating cost. This, however, vill not lncrease Government's
recurrent expenditures beyond the project because after an initial period
of setting up the program when most expenses are incurred, DNAFLA's role
vill be progressively reduced to supervision and quality control. Alo no
new staff is expected to be hired by DNAFLA for implementation of this
component.
Training
3.16      Systematic in-service training vill be a key feature of the
project. Fortnightly training sessions vill be held for the village
extension vorkers (VEVe) to upgrade their professional and technical
qualifications and to communicate to them specific recommendations
concerning agricultural practices to be applied in the folloving fortnight.
The VEWs vill report problems encountered to the subject matter specialists
(SHSs) and vill seek advice as to their resolution. The fortnightly
sessions for the VEWs vill be complomented by monthly vorkshops for subject
matter specialiste aimed at upgrading their skills in their respective
fields. Researchers from IER vill participate in these sossions to the
largest possible extent to discuss vith the SHSs issues encountered and
vill propose solutions to be passed on to the VEWs. The yearly training
programs would be prepared during an annual training vorkshop to be
organized vell ahead of the planting season. Presentation to IDA of the
first yearly training program vould be a condition of effectiveness (para.
6.02(a)). The project would finance all expenses related to the training
component (educational material and equipment and travel expenses of the
concerned staff).
3.17      Special training will be provided to staff chosen to become the
project training specialists. Seven candidates would be selected (one from
each of the six regions and one from the National Directorate) and
instructed in all aspects of training. Once their instruction is completed,
they vould assume the responsibility for planning and supervis$ng all of
the project-related training. IDA field staff vould assist the project
coordinator in preparing the curriculum for this training program and in
choosing the most suitable institution to provide such training.



- 13 -
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.18      The monitoring and evaluation unit created under the pilot
extension project would be consolidated and further expanded. The central
monitoring and evaluation unit at DNA in Bamako vill be responsible for
coordinating and supervising the monitoring and evaluation activities
carried out by the project field implementing agencies. Each of these
agencies vill have a monitoring and evaluation unit headed by a chief. The
number of agents in charge of monitoring will depend on the importance of
the agency's extension activities.
3.19      The initial project results vill be evaluated at a joint mid-
term review to be organized after two full years of project implementation.
The mid-term review would be held not later than June 30, 1993. Assurances
to this effect vere obtained at negotiations (para. 6.01(a)).
Accountina and Financial Management
3.20      The project accounts vill be centralized at the DNA at Bamako.
A detailed proposal as to the accounting system to be installed, procedures
to be followed, profile of agents needed and equipaent required is being
prepared by consultants under PPF financing.
Civil Works, Vehicles and Eauipment
3.21      To accommodate the project staff at the level of Bamako, the
project vould finance an extension of office space (and conference/training
rooms). The total covered surface is estimated at 400 me. At Kayes,
because of the great distance from other existing facilities, the project
vould provide a small building (156 m8) for training. At the Regional
Agricultural Centers, the project vould essentially finance repair of the
existing infrastructures and, as needed, some adaptations to accommodate
nev equipment. About 90 vehicles vould be financed for higher level
extension staff at headquarters and in the regions; each VEW and monitoring
agent vould be provided with a moped and each SNS vith a motorcycle. The
mopeds and motorcycles vill be sold to the agents on credit and the monthly
repayments will be vithheld from their salaries. Miscellaneous office
equipment including computers vould also be provided. The exact nature of
this equipment vill be determined after completion and approval by IDA of
the monitoring and evaluation program and consultant proposal concerning
the equipment of the accounting unit.
D.   Prosect Coat and Financina
Prolect Cost
3.22      The total base project cost is estimated at CFAP 6.3 billion
(US$24.8 million). Base cost estimates reflect June 1990 prices. Costs
vere calculated net of all identifiable taxes and duties. Physical
contingencies amounting to US$0.8 million are estimated to be 152 of civil
vorks and 102 of most other investment costs; their total amounts to 3.42
of base cost. Price contingencies amounting to US$1.5 million,
representing 5.9Z of base cost and 5.5Z of total cost are based on



- 14 -
forecaste of international infi-ation for foreign supplied goode, on
estimated annual inflation in Mali for local coste il, and on an
implementation period of 4 years (see para. 3.32). The breakdown of total
project cost of US$27.1 million i8 as follows:
Estimated Costs
Local   Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total      Z      Total
Foreign   Base
--- (CYAF millions)----   ----(USS million)----  Exchanne  Costa
Extension
- Agricultural Dept.     1754.1  1638.3   3392.4    6.8      6.6     13.4    48        54
- Livestock Department   436.5   495.1    931.6    1.7       2.0      3.7    53        15
- Forestry Department    266.2   236.4    502.6    1.0       1.0      2.0    50         a
On-Farm Research            92.0   121.6    213.5    0.3      0.5      0.8    57         3
Monitoring and Evaluation 153.7   124.8    278.6    0.6       0.5       1.1    45        4
Functional Literacy and   497.7    82.4    579.7    2.0       0.3      2.3    13         9
Support to Village Assoc.
Refinancing of PPF           -     379.5    379.5    -        1.5      1.5   100         6
Base Costs                3200.2  3077.7   6277.9   12.4    12.4      24.8    50       100
Physical Contingencies    59.2   154.2    213.4    0.2      0.6      0.8    72         3
Price Contingencies      199.8   172.2    372.0    1.1      0.4      1.5    27         6
Total Project Costs               11 " ,3404.   1.L.L   L             ZZIIL   5Q       12
Prolect Financing
3.23      Project costs would be financed by a US$24.4 million equivalent
IDA Credit on standard terms, and the balance (US$2.7 million equivalent)
by Government. The IDA credit would finance 902 of total project coste net
of taxes (US$27.1 million). The IDA credit would finance 100Z of the
project's investment coste, and 832 of the incremental operating coste.
IDA's financing of incremental operating costs would be on a declining
basis over the project implementation period (para. 3.29). Project
financing would be as followss
1/   Annual projected price lncreasess
1991    1992    1993    1994
Local coste (2)      3.0      3.0     3.0     3.0
Foreign coste (2)    3.6     3.6      3.6     3.6



- 15 -
Financinx Plan
CFAF billion         US$ million           fl.
Government                      0.7                   2.7            10
IDA                             6.2                  24.4            90
TOTAL                           6.9                  27.1           100
E. Procurement
3.24      All goode and services financed under the project would be
procured in accordance with Bank guidelines. Procurement vould be handled
by the DNA. Procedures are summarized hereafters
Procurement Methods
Total
Proiect Element                   ICB       LCB    Other    NA      Cost
--   ^-----US$ million-------------
Civil Works                         -       0.8     -        -       0.8
(0.8)                    (0.8)
Vehicles                            5.6     0.3     0.1      -       6.0
(5.6)   (0.3)   (0.1)            (6.0)
Equipment                          1.4      0.3     0.3      -       2.0
(1.4)   (0.3)   (0.3)            (2.0)
Consultants, Studies, Audits,       -       -       0.8      -       0.8
Training                                         (0.8)            (0.8)
Operating Costs a/                  -       -       _       16.0    16.0
(13.3)  (13.3)
PPF Refinancing                    -        -       -        1.5     1.5
(1.5)   (1.5)
Total                                                       1"Q     LI   2L
(7.0)   (1.4)   (1.2)  (14.8)  (24.4)
Notes  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Association.
ai   Includes travel allovances of ixtension field staff, operating and
maintenance costs of vehicles and equipment, inputs for on-farm
research trials, and office supplies. These will be procured
according to government procedures.
3.25      Civil works to be financed for approximately U8S$0.8 million
vould be procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally In
accordanue w-th procedures satisfactory to IDA which would include
advertising ii local papers, public bid opening, clarity of evaluation
criteria, award to the lowest evaluated bidder and foreign bidders vould
not be precluded from participating. These provisions have been agreed in
a side letter to the Credit Agreement. The dispersion over the country of
civil works funded under the project, their relatively low unit cost, and
the presence of well-equipped and competitive local contractors make it



- 16 -
unlikely that the works would attgact foreign contractors not already
established in Mali.
3.26      Goods.  Goods estimated to cost US$100,000 or more would be
procured under ICB procedure in accordance with Bank guidelines, Vehicles,
goods, and equipment to be financed would be grouped to the extent possible
in packages of at least US$100,000 equivalent. Packages of less than
US$100,000 totalling US$0.6 million could be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association (subject to the same provisions as
indicated in para. 3.25). Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than
US$30,000 may be procured on the basis of direct competitive shopping based
on at least three quotations. The total value of goode to be procured in
this way would not exceed US$300,000 without prior IDA agreement.
3.27      Consultants with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA
would be recruited in accordance with IDA guidelines.
3.28      Contract Review.  All bidding packages for goode estimated to
cost more than US$100,000 '-luivalent would require the Bank's prior
approval, as would the final avard of the related contracte. The other
contracta would be subject to random ex-post review by the Association
after contract award.
F. Dilbursements
3.29      The IDA Credit would be disbursed over four years as followst
Amounts in           I of
Cateaorv                                   U§$ million      Expenditures
Civil Works                                    0.8              1001
vehicles                                       5.3              100S
Other Equipment and Material                   1.7              1001
Consultants, Studies, Audits
and Training                                0.8              1002
Operating Costs (includes inputs              12.3         851 of expenditures
for on-farm research trials, travel                        paid until
allowances for extension staff, office                      June 30, 1994 and
supplies, and operating costs of                          75Z of expenditures
vehicles and equipment)                                     paid thereafter
PPF Refinancing                                1.5           Amount due
Unallocated                                    2.0
TOTAL                                         24.4
The expected credit closing date is September 30, 1995.



- 17 -
3.30      Disbursement of the IDA Creditw$ill be fully documented except
for contracte valued at less than US$20,000 equivalent which yill be
against Statements of Expenditure (SOE) certified by the Director of DNA.
Relevant documentation would be retained by DNA and made available for
inspection by IDA during supervision missions.
3.31      In order to expedite disbursements and ensure that funde for the
project are available when needed, the Government would open a special
account (revolving fund) in a commercial bank. Immediately after credit
effectiveness, IDA would make an initial deposit of US$ 1.0 million into
the special account, representing about four monthu' expenditures. The
account would be used to finance the local and foreign coste of eligible
expenditures financed by IDA. IDA would replenish the fund upon receipt of
satisfactory proof of incurred expenditure and evidence that such
expenditures were eligible for financing out of the revolving fund.
Monthly bank statements of the special account would accompany
replenishment requeste.
3.32      Diabursements have been estimated using a four-year project
implementation period instead of the standard six and a half year
diebursement profile for agricultural projects in Mali. Faster
diAbursements are anticipated becauset (i) 75 percent of the investmentu
will take place during the fîrst two years of the project; and (ii) about
53 percent of the credit vould b. dimbursed against selected items of the
concerned institutions' annual operating budgets, and therefore would not
be subject to implementation delays.
3.33      The Government accepted to include in its yearly budget the
amounts necessary to meet its counterpart financing obligation as vell as
to diaburse these amounts to the project executing agencies under the
Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Environment and Livestock and the
Mlinistry of Education.  These disbursements  i.ll be in quarterly tranches
not later than March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each
year.  The accounting system to be oet up under the projoct will include
appropriate procedures to monitor compliance with these obligations. It
would be a condition of effectiveness that a mechaniem to ensure
counterpart funding be In place (para. 6.02 (b)).
IV. PROJECT ORGANAZAMIOI AiD INPLEMNRNATION
A.   Overall Pro1lect Organization and Nmnatement
Extension
4.01      The proposed project will be implemented by three ministries,
namely the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Environment and
Livestock and the Ministry of Education.  The overall coordination of
project implementation will be the responsibility of the National
Directorate of the Ministry of Agriculture.
4.02      To ensure coordination at the highest level, a Technical
Coordinating Committee would be created composed of the Director of



_ 18 -
Agriculture, the Director of Livegpock, the Director of Forestry and Vater
Resources the Director of IER, and the Director of DNAFLA. The role of
this comittee vill bes
(i)  review and approval of the work programs and the annual budgets;
(ii)  coordination and supervision of project activities;
(iii) approval of the annual project execution report; and
(iv)  setting up of Regional Coordinating Comuittees composed of the
Regional Directors of Agriculture, of Livestock, and of Forestry
and Water Resources, of Education and of the directors of rural
development agencies in charge of project execution.
The legal establishment of the Technical Coordinating Committee vould be a
condition of effectiveness (para. 6.02(c)).
4.03      The day-to-day project implementation vill be under the
authority of the Director of Agriculture. Me vill be assisted by a full-
time project coordinator.
4.04      Project executing agencies in the field vill be (i) the 6
Regional Agricultural Directorates in collaboration vith the Regional
Directorates of Livestock and of Forestry and Water Resources; (ii) the
regional development agencies supervised directly by the Ministry of
Agriculture (ODIPAC, ORM, ORS and PRPAB); (iii) IER: and (iv) DMAFLA. The
financially independent regional development agencies ON, ODIK and OHV
assisted by other projects and/or donors, although not directly part of the
project, vould be invited to adopt the same or similar extension principles
and practices as those applied by the project.
4.05      Each executing agency vould prepare by Februaxy each year a vork
program for the next agricultural season and submit this program together
vith a detailed budget for discussion and approval to tte Project
Coordinator and the Director of Agriculture. The Projec>. Coordinator under
the authority of the Director of Agriculture vill, after discussion vîth
the agencies and needed adjustments, submit the program by nmid-March to the
Technical Coordinating Cormlttee for final approval.  The approved
consolidated work program and budget would be submitted t, IDA for conments
and approval not later than the end oi March each calendar jear.
Assurances that the above principles vill be followed veri obtained at
negotiations <para. 6.01(b)).
Monltoring
4.06      The Director of Agriculture has prepared a proposal concernlng
the organization and staffing of the central unit and of the rogional
monitoring units. The proposal also included a plan shoving the aspects of
project activity to be monitored and evaluated.  This proposal has b_n
found to be too ambitious. Submission of a revised proposal of the unit
organization and staffing acceptable to IDA vill be condition of
effectiveness (para. 6.02(d)).   Not later than the end of March each year,
the project coordinator vould prepare and furnish to IDA for comments an
analysis of project results as established by the monitoring unit end



- 19 _
propose monitoring and evaluation objectives for the upcoming season.
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations (para. 6.01(c)).
Functional Literacy Training
4.07      Functional literacy training would be planned and supervised by
DNAFLA. DNAFLA has submitted to the Director of Agriculture an outline of
a work program witk a timetable. This plan calls for a preliminary fact-
finding study which would determine which of the villages in the project
area are the most appropriate candidates for the literacy program (no
previous literacy program, existence of facilities such as a potential
classroom, existence of a village association, interest of the village
population, etc.).  This prel.minary study started in October/Noverber 1990
under PPF financing. Every project year about 200 literacy classes would
be opened with, as end result, some 20,000 villagers trained in functional
literacy. All project literacy classes would be open to vomen and their
participation would be strongly encouraged.
4.08      In the third and fourth project year in the most progressive
villages, classes would be started instructing the villagers in basic
accounting and community management. Candidates vould be chosen from those
villagers who have successfully completed the literacy and numeracy
training and appear keen to vork for the village association and/or extend
their activities to marketing or shopkeeping. DNAFLA would submit to the
project a yearly report resuming the work done, results achieved and
specifying the work objectives for the year to come. It is planned that
some 100 classes of this sort vould be started in year 3 and 4 of the
project.
E. Civil Vorks
4.09      Civil vorks, which would be of a simple nature (office and
training space in Bamako and Kayes and some rehabilitation of existing
facilities at the Regional Directorates), would be planned by the 'Génie
Rurale department of the Ministry of Agriculture.  Génie Rural would
prepare a detailed plan with bill of quantities and cost estimates for the
two office facilities; the project coordinator vould submit these documents
for comments and approval to IDA before bide for construction are invited.
Génie Rural would also prepare cost estimates for all rehabilitation works
envisaged under the project for IDA's approval and comments.
C. Financial Management
4.10      Financial management and project accounts will be the
responsibility of an accounting unit to be attached to the project
coordinator's office. A consulting firm has been recruited to propose an
accounting system for the project. It would be condition of effectiveness
that the proposed system as well as staff be in place (para. 6.02'e)).
4.11      The project accouats will be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA and financed by the project. Audited financial
statements and reports of such scope and in such detail as IDA may
reasonably request vould be submitted to IDA within six months of the end



_ 20 -
of the fiscal year. The report vill include inter alia a separate opinion
concerning the reliability of S0E submitted as justification for
disbursements under the credit. Assurances to this effect vere obtained at
negotiations (para. 6.01 (d)).
4.12      The project coordinator vould prepare and submit to IDA
semestrial reports highlighting progress achieved in project
implementation, issues encountered and solutions proposed. The content of
the report vill evolve during project $mplementation vith the objective of
keeping the Bank informed of the most important project parameters, vithout
constituting an undue burden for the project staff and vithout overlapping
vith other documents supplied to IDA (monitoring repert, budget, vork
program, etc.).
D. Environmental Imnact
4.13      The main thrust of the vork of the crop, livestock and forestry
extension services to be supported under the project will be increasing
land productivity. This vill be realized primarily by $mproved cultural
practices and improved herd management, i.e., low-cost (often zero cash
cost) and low-risk measures such as soil conservation, vater harvesting,
contour planting, zero tilling, composting. alley-cropping, agro-forestry
and better integration of crops and livestock, as vell as more efficient
application of chemical fertilizers and pesticides. Adoption of these
measures vill both incroase land productivity and arrest soil degradation.
It is thus anticipated that the proposed project vould be environmentally
positive.
4.14      Throughout the country, but most auspiciouely in the pastoral
areas in the North, livestock numbers can be expected to increase as a
consequence of improved livestock services. The causality vill not be
straightforward, since steers will likely be culled for groving-out and
eventual fattening or for animal traction. Heifers, by contrast, are
unlikely to be culled in significant numbers.  Total cattie numbers are
likely to increase, although slowly, because of the impact of poor rainfail
yearss thus the cattle population increased by 82/year between 1974 and
1982 (a no-drought period), but by only l.7Z/year between 1974 and 1985.
The particular problems associated vith sustainable range management wili
not be directly addressed through this project, vhich concentrates on
improving productivity of individually owned or managed assets, such as
arable land or livestock. Approaches to the problems of communally owned
or managed assets, such as rangelande, are being tested in ongoing pilot
operations as part of the preparation of the Natural Resources Management
Project. Lessons learned from these operations vould be applied on a wider
scale during implementation of that project. More effective livestock
services will also increase sheep and goat populations, but the possible
negative effects on the environment are not expected to be as important as
vith cattle. Smallstock are usually managed by vomen as a sedentary
activity, even in the drîer areas, and tethering is becoming a common
practice.



- 21 _
S.  Proiect Supervision
4.15      Because of it. complexity and the multiplicity of agencies
involved in implementation, the project vould require during the initial
stages of implementation a frequent and intensive supervision by IDA. This
vould be achieved (i) by a Bank extension specialist who vould be stationed
Ln Bamako at the Resident Mission during at least the firet implementation
year. Be vould be assisted at least twice a yesr by supervision missions
from Beadquarters staffed as may be required by a financial analyst,
monitoring and evaluation specialiot, functional literacy specialist and
extension specialist. It is expected that in the later project years, when
the local government staff gains additional experience, the Bank's
supervision effort vill decrease and that the continuous presence of a Bank
extension specialiet at the Resident Mission vill not be required to ensure
successful project implementation (a supervision plan lo at Annex 6).
V. BEINFITS AND RISKS
A.   Proiect Benefits
5.01      The project, with its broad range of activities, should greatly
contribute to the vell-being of a large number of rural familLes snd to the
agricultural sector overall. About 452 of the rural population (450,000
familles) would be reached by improved extension services, but how many of
those households would choose to adopt recommended practices cannot be
estimated with any precision. More specifically, project benefits should
manifest themeelves ln three main areasi
(a) production and productivity of both the crop and livestock
sectorss reorganized and strengthened extension and livestock
services should provide farmers and herders - both men and vomen
- vith new and effective ways to lmprove their standards of
living;
(b)  autonomy and self-reliances vith the help of literacy programs,
farmers and herders will be better able to manage their
resources and investments independently.  Literacy programs vill
provide most villages vith a core group of functional literates
able to manage the affaire of the villages and
(c) human resourcest the project strongly emphasizes training and
continuing education programs for farmers, herders and
government staff. The project would greatly enhance the
capabilities of staff at all levels, strengthen
research/extension links, and promote a two-way flow of
questions and ansvers between producers and technicians.
B.   Justification and Affordabilitv
5.02      It is not possible to isolate the effecte of extension and
adaptive research on output and income. Adoption of technical improvements
in crop, animal and tree husbandry, water harvesting and soil conservation,



- 22 -
depends on many factors, of which field testing and effective dissemination
are just a part. Other factors include prices of outputs and inputs
(including labor and capital), accessibility of markets and credit,
differentiation of farm enterprises by site, tenure and capitalization, and
different assessments of risk and opportunities for risk sharing. While
the causality underlying adoption is difficult to determine, egood'
extension clearly has a catalytic role to play both by adjusting technical
messages to local, even individual circumstances, but al8o by bringing
farmers' and others' preoccupations to the attention of researchers,
bankers, tradesmen, merchants, commodity processors as well as national
policy-makers. Despite the difficulties with causality, a recent review of
studies that have attempted to measure the impact of agricultural extension
programs on farmer adoption and productivity concluded that extension in a
number of countries has been a high pay-off investment. 2/
5.03      Good extension is therefore a necessary but not sufficient
condition for agricultural growth, and its effects cannot be conclusively
quantified. While an economic rate of return could be calculated for an
extension project, the calculation would be fraught with theoretical and
empirical difficulties, and reduction of the outcome to a single rate of
return would be spurious. A more illuminating, although still imprecise,
indicator is the increase in agricultural value added that would be
required to cover the costs of "goodm extension. In Mali, the staff
exists; the incremental cost of good extension le the mobility and
continuous in-service training of such staff. This cost is $3.3
million/year, or about 0.3Z of agricultural value added excluding the CMDT
area. Since the project would only cover 602 of the rural population in
this area, the project's incremental coste are about 0.5Z of the income of
the target population and, to break even, would have to increase the target
population's Income by a similar annual increment. This increase is
eminently attainable ir, view of the monitored results of the first two
years' car«vaigns (Annex 1), and the long-term growth rate observed in the
agricultural sector, of 2Z/year. On the basis of households, the project
,would reach 450,000 8-person units by year 4, at a cost of about
$llihc'ustaholdfyear (including cost of vehicles and equipment - see Annex
7). This cost would be covered if each household vere to farm 22 of its
land with improved techni-ues each year. The salary and benefit costs of
the existing staff for çiv'm mobility and training would be provided under
the project amount to $3.2 million/year. If these coste are included with
the above incremental costs, the breakeven rates would increase from 0.5X
to 0.82 of the income of the target population; in this case, the total
cost would be covered if each household vere to farm 3S of its land with
improved techniques each year. Thus, even including the salary and benefit
costs of existing staff, the breakeven rates are readily obtainable.
5.04      Incremental operating costs over the four-year implementation
period amount to CFAF 3.4 billion (US$ 13.4 million equivalent) excluding
recurrent costs for functional literacy training or about CFAF 845 million
21 Baster, Michael, Roger Slade and John Hovell, *Aid and Agricultural
Extension: Evidence from the World Bank and other Donors", Vorld Bank
Technical Paper Number 87, 1989.



- 23 -
(US$ 3.3 million equivalent) per year on average. This represents IO of
the 1990 agrieultural sector recurrent budget snd some 2.62 of the total
agricultural sector budget. The Kalian counterpart financing of recurrent
costs over the project period mounts to CEAF 690 million (US$2.7 million
equivalent) or about CFAF 175 million (US$ 0.7 million equivalent) per year
in average. This represents 2X of the recurrent budget and about 0.58 of
the total budget. Thus counterpart funding during the project lfe
represents a minor increment in budgetary expenditures for the total
agricultural sector, but the project's total annual incremental operating
coste is five times larger. Post-project affordability vill have to be
assessed in the light of the public finance situation at that time, and of
agrieulture's share on total public expenditure. But also at that time,
cost savings vill be possible through increasing staff:farmer ratios, and
it may be opportune to begin attempting partial cet recovery from certain
farmers' associations. There vill nonethelese be significant continuing
coste to be met, to be addressed under a follow-up project that would be
the second four-year time slice of the long-term national program to
improve extension and related services.
C.   Proiect Rieke
5.05      The risks ares  (a) the possible inability of extension and
research services to produce vorkable solutions to farmers' and herders'
problemss (b) probleme of inter-agency coordinationt and (c) the possible
failure of Government and/or donors to sustain the long-term comuitment
required to achieve durable improvements lu the effectivenese of
agricultural support services. To minimize these risks, a three-year pilot
operation vas undertaken, and the lessons learned have been built into the
project design. Financial and management capabilities vill be strengthened
and annual revieve of work plans and budgets, as vell as the mid-term
implementation review, and close Bank supervision vill provide an adequate
number of opportunities for program review and long-term commitment
building.
VI. ASSURANCES AND RECOu MENDlAIO<
6.01      Assurances Obtai4ued at Neaotiations:
(a) A joint mid-term reviev vould be held no later than June 30,
1993 (para. 3.19);
(b) The Director of Agriculture shall submit to IDA by the end of
March each year a consolidated vork program and budget for the
next cropping season (para. 4.05);
(c) The project coordinator would prepare and furnish to IDA for
commente not later than the end of March each year an analysis
of project results as established by the monitoring unit and
propose monitoring and evaluation objectives for the upcoming
season (para. 4.06)>



- 24 -
(d)  The project accounts would be audited by independent auditors;
the audit report vill include Inter alla a separate opinion
concerning the rellability of 80E, and the report wvould be
submitted to IDA vithin six monthe of the end of the fiscal year
(para. 4.11).
6.02      Conditions of Effectlveness
(a)  Presentation to IDA of the first-year training program (para.
3.16);
(b)  A mechanism to ensure counterpart funding vill be in place (para
3.33);
(c) The legal establishment of the Techaical Coordinating Committee
(para. 4.02);
(d)  A8reement by IDA on the organiation and vork program of the
monitoring unit (para. 4.06);
(e)  The accounting system as vell as accounting staff vill be in
place (para. 4.10).
6.03      Recommendation
With the above assurances and conditions, the project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 18.3 million (US$ 24.4 million
equivalent).



-25-                                 AMINE
Page 5 of 17
AGRIULTRALEXTES IN   ST PROGRAN
A.    Historv of Agerieultural EXre.nsion in Mal&
The history of agricultural extension, supervision and research in
Mali parallels that of its agricultural policy, which in turn reflects the
general political situation. Thus, the organization and management of
agricultural extension show very remarkable development between the colonial
period and the present day. The various stages in this evolution are
described below.
Before indoe.ndence
2.01        The first activities date back to the 1920s:  in 1928 the
agricultural service of that time organized the training of NMaster Plowmen"
(Maltres Laboureurs) at M'Pessoba and Baraouli vith the object of
disseminating animal-powered cultivation techniques. Development of the
agricultural service began in 1945 with the creation of agricultural sectors
and subsectors in Nalt. Extension and supervision vas administrative in
nature and its structure vas modbled on that of the administration. Its role
was limited to tranumitting instructions through the  canton and
village heads.  There vas no concept of s.eking the commitment or
participation of the mass of the rural population.  Apart from the stations
there was no supporting ;eearch program.  The extension staffing norm was 1
agent for every 20-30,000 inhabitants. Only the Office du Niger(ON).possessed
a relativ.ly adequate staff, which was however poorly trained.  Contract
conditions prevailed over the extension approach.
After indeRendence
2.02        The period from independonce to the present day has witnessed a
great many changes in agencies, strategies and approaches to adapt to a
constantly evolving world.  The goals, on the other hand, have remained
practically unchanged:
-    pursuit of food solf-sufficiency and soeurity;
-      odvelopment of agricultural exports in order to generate the
necessary economic surpluses to finance plant development and
investment in other sectors;
-     elimination of Mali's trade and balance of payments deficits;
-     raising the income and improving the living conditions of the
rural population.
The folloving stages can be distinguished:
1960-64:    The main approaches adopted vere mass extension and the creation
of farmers' cooperatives and national enterprises.  The structure of the
farming and livestock services vas mod.led on the administrative subdivision



ANNEX 1
-26 -                                 Page 2 of 17
of the country.  As a result of the political docision to collectivize
agricultural production, government action in the rural sector favored
cooporative organization to the detriment of oxtension and vocational
training. This first attempt ended in failure. The rural vorld, inadequately
prepared, lost momentum and vibrancy and the entire procesa was reflected in
an appreciable decline in production.
1964-f7:    Draving on the lessons of this failure, the Government decided to
entrust the development taoks to more autonomous agencies, called "Programs,"
operating in mors hoiogeneous geographic areas. (cereals zone, groundnuts zone,
cotton zone). However, the enstablisehàntof these agencies vas not
accompanied by roform of the agrLcultugal services.
Although this intermediate stage vas not crowned vith success, it did
mark an evolution in thinking vhtch,in 1967 leçi to the concept of "Rural
Development Operation" (Opération de Développement Rurale--ODR), based on:
-     an integrated development approach encompassing all aspects of
upgrading of the farmers' living conditions and environment;
-     c-reation of autonomous development agencies to implement
development projects and provide services.
1961-80:    From 1967 to 1980 extension asd supervision services to the rural
areas vere provided by 18 ODRs and 3 Offices as vell as various autonomous
development projects and rural development activities. The regional
agricultural directorates vere retained, aséuming responsibility for the areas
not covered by the ODRe ("diffuse zones").  It vas the diversity of regional
conditions that led the Government to adopt this policy of regionalization of
investment programs through the ODRs system. The-achievements of the ODRs
include, Inter alla:
-     creation of a national extension network;
- - deploym.nt of substantial credit and proecurement services;
-     execution of a large farm-roads improvement program to open up
certain rural areas;
-     training of faorera through dissemination of appropriate technical
messages and functional literacy;
- - execution of mont of the agrieultural vater works projects, for
which the ODRa have not alvays successfully organized management
and maintenance;
-     development of intensive crops snd improvement of traditional
cereals.
1980-90: Financial difficulties, both domestic and external, the gap between
initial ambitions and actual results sad the effecta of the drought have
combined to create a situation of criais in the ODRs. In 1979 the Government



'                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANHEX 1
-27-                                  Page 3 of 17
thereforo decided to undertake an in-depth *tudy of the ODRs which pointed up
the ne.d to restructure thi.., This action vas iuplemented and te nov in
progreus. It vas against this background that Kali, vwth the support of the
World Bank, initiated the agricultural extension test program in March 1988.
S.       &Criultural Htni  Tàat PrOgra
2.03        The national agrieultural extension test prograu vas launched in
Kali vith the 1988/89 s*ason. Throe ragions, covered by thr.o large
Development Operations (ORM, ORS and ON), vers solocted for implementation of
the test progra. for the firat y.ar, mainly vith rice and millet crops.  In
lighpt of the results, the Hinistry of Agriculture decided tê repeat the test
program for the 1989/90 season and to extend it to other important rainfed-
crop areas covered by the Regional Agriculture Directorates of Mopti, Kayes
and Koulikoro and the Haute Vallée Oporation. The test program is being
financed by an IDA PPF credit.



ANNEX 1
- 28r- Page 4 of 17
REgai2n& &Bd Illatituti2na Involved
r                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~SECTOR AND ZONEj
REGION          INSTITUTION                                 .             | 
1988/89 Seasonl  1989/90 Season
Kayes            Kayes DRA                -Kayes Sector
Koulikoro        Koulikoro DRA            -              Nara Sector
OHV                                    Koulikoro Sector
Sirakorola Sector
SEGOU            ORS                Dioro Zone           Dioro Zone
Markala Zone
ON                Molodo Sector        Nolodo Sector
N'Débougou Sector   N'Débougou Sector
MOPTI            ORM                Mopti-Nord Zone      Mopti-Nord Zone
Mopti-Sud Zone       Nopti-Sud Zone
Sofara Zone
Mopti DRA         -             -      Mopti Sector
-.         Bankass Sector
Koro Sector
Djénné Sector
DRA: Regional Farming Directorate.



-29-                                   Page 5 of 17
2.04        The test program ia organized at three levels:
At the farmer level, the zone, sector and block chiefs and the
extension agents, in agreement with the population, are
responsible for executing the program by organizing farmers'
groupa around contact farmers, establishing test plots on which
the technical messages recommended by research are applied,
referring the farmera' technical, social and economic probleme to
research, visiting their fields regularly, and helping the village
associations to manage their development better in teris of
credit, equipment, inputs and marketing.
-     At the regional level, the Agricultural Services of the ODRs and
the Regional Farming Directorates are responsible for executing
the program through programming, management, trsining of the
supervisors and field agents, support for the farmers'
organizations, liaison with research, and monitoring and
supervising field activities.
-     At the national level, the National Agriculture Directorate is
responsible for planning, coordinating, supervising and evaluating
the execution of the program.  A National Coordinator has been
appointed to perform these functions.
2.05        Continuous and regular training îs provided at all levels in order
to raise the standard of professionalism. To that end, fortnightly training
sessions are provided for extension technicians and agents, monthly workshops
for subject-matter specialists(SMSs), field supervisors and researchers, and
annual training workshops for all officials with Yeeponsibility for the
program.  To these periodic and regular trainlng sessions must be added
interregional visits by extension agents and farmers vithin and outside Mali.
The World Bank provided support for the 1988 and 1989 annual training
workshops under this program.
2.06        Strengthening of the links between extension and research is
reflected first in more precise definition of the tasks of the research and
extension services within the ODRa and second in more consistent support by
the national and regional research services for the ODRa based on memoranda of
understanding with the IER.
EvaLuat±Qn
2.07        £valuation of the test program has been performed by four teams,
each composed of 2-3 persons (staff members of the Agriculture and Environment
and Livestock ministries).  These teams have criss-crossed the four regions
concerned to gather data (resulta of the test plots and opinions of farmers
and extension agents). The lessons learned from these data will be applied in
formulating the national extension program.
2.08        Execution of the test program necessitated, for the two
consecutive seasons, the mobilization of a number of existing supervisors and



-30-                                Page 6 of 17
extension agents in the regional agrilultural devolopuent agencies. National
coordination was furnished through the Deputy National Director of
Agriculture.
Personnel N liZed for the P   SM  in 1988/89 and 1989/90
Function or        Segou Region           Nopti Region     Koulikoro    Kayes
Position of                                               Region
Responsi-
bility             ORS           ON          ORM1      MDRA  KDRA   OHV   KDRA
88/89 89/90  88/09 89/90  88/89 89/90  89/90 89/90  89/90 89/90
Extension         23    37    27    27    24    48    48       3 i/ 20    12
Agent
Supervisor         6     8    10    4      13    13     8      3     2     4
SM Specialist      4    il    10    10      5     5     4      1     71/
Sector/            2     4      2     2     3     3     4      1     2     2
zone chief
Regional
coordinator        1      1     1     1     1     1      1     1     1     1
TOTAL            36    61    50    44    46    70    65       9    32    19
1/    Of the proposed 14 extension agents, 3 have actually been able to work
during the crop season.  The 3 supervisors are vorking in 3 different
Rural Expansion Zones (ZERs).
Z!    The 7 OV technicians vork for th. entire OV zone.



ANN= 1
Pag7of 17
- 31 -
For execution of the program, 132 agricultural technicians were
mobilized in 1988/89 and 300 in 1989/90, representing 21% and 24% respectively
of the staffs of the institutions involved in it.
..09        The personnel were trained by means of regional seminars/workshops
and the extension agents by means of field courses.
(a)   Seminars    4jka   z
The extension campaigns began with seainars/workshops designed to
train the supervisors of the agricultural services involved in the program in
the basic principles of the system being tested. They included in particular
those with the functions of supervisor, subject-matter specialist, and
coordinator.
-     1988/89 season
A total of 72 staff members of various agencies (extension
institutions responsible for hosting the test program, officials of the
national services involved in rural development) participated in the
seminars/workshops, which vere held at Bamako, Niono and Mopti.
-     1989/90 season
The seminars/workshops were also held in various localities in
preparation for expansion of the test program. A total of 152 staff
participated in them:
Biamako                  39
Mopti                   .49
Niono                    42
Nara
Total                   152
(b)   Trainin; of extension agen
Ine eAtension agents received start-up training to initiate them
into the extension ,rinciples of the progras.  This vas to be followed by
fortnightly training sessions; however, it has not always been feasible to
adhere to the reco_mended fortnightly timetable.  The ODRs (ON, ORS, OHV) have
posted better performanceq in ehts area than the DRAs.  This is due not only
to the extension experience acquired by the ODR. but also to the volume of
resources available to them.
2.10  Fin nial  ReUxcea  cbil ized



ANNX 1
Page 8 of 17
- 32 -
CFAF
Equipment (in course of acquisition)       177,500,000
Materials                                    1,504,860
Operating expenditures                      35,520,227
Studies and training                         8.592.500
Total                                223,117,587
2.11        Extension services to the farmers vere provided by setting up
farmers' groups in the selected villages with a person in charge of each
group (contact farmer).
Numbers of Contact Farmers and Contact-Groups
and Ratig of Numbers of Earmers Rer Villaue extenio-n Agent
1988/89 Season                1989/90 Season
Number of                                          Kayes Kouli  Mopti
farmers        ORS   ON    ORM  ORS    ON   ORM    DRA   DRA    DRA   OHV
Contact
farnmers       575   582   262  1480   118   873    79    24  1596    92
Group
farmers       5175  2910  2984 13320  1138  7997   499   183 15960  1051
Total         5750  3492  3246 14800  1256  8870   578   207 15567  1143
Farmers/NEW
Ratio          250   129   135   400    47   185    48    69   366    57
The overall target for the test program vas an average of 400 farmers
per village extension agent. The results indicate that this target vas not
achieved for all institutions:
-     Satisfactory results:   ORS (up from 250 in 1988/89 to 400 in
1989/90) and Mopti DRA (366);
Average results:        ORMI (up from 135 to 185);
Poor results:           ON, OV, Koulikoro DRA and Kayes DRA.



ANHEX 1
Page 9 of 17
- 33 -
The average and poor results are explained by several factors,
which often occur together:
-    late start-up of the extension work (Kayes and Koulikoro DRAs);
inadequate training (Kayes and Koulikoro DRAs);
-    transportation problem (Kayes and Koulikoro DRAs, ORM);
*    standards set and moasures taken by the institutions (ON, OHV).
2.12        Demonstration plots have been set up to support the application of
the technical messages.
Numbers-of Demonstration Plots Set Mg. b! Institution
1988/89 Season                1989/90 Season
Kayes Kouli Mopti
Crop types     ORS   ON   ORM   ORS   ON   OHM    DRA   DRA    DRA   OHV
Millet/
sorghum        443     -   53   831      -   79   45    24  1592    91
Rice           575   582   209   953   118   794 --- 3      -     -     -
Maize            -     -     -     -     -     -   28       -     -     -
Groundnut        :     -     -     -     -     -     3      -     -     -
Total         1018   582   262  1784   118   873    79   24  1596    92
These demonstration plots vary in size, from 100 m2 (Kayes) to
nearly 5,000 m2 (Niger Office, ON). The area will therefore have to be
standardized in the years ahead.
The contact farmers manage one demonstration plot, on average,
except at the ORS, where soue look after two plots at the same tise (rice and
rainfed crops).
2.13        The technical messages selected for this program are generally
speaking simple and inexpensive and involve little risk for the farmer. The
following table shows their breakdown by institution:



- 34 -                               ANNEX
Page 10 of 17
Technical Messauee Recommended bl the Extension Institutions
1988189 8eason            1989190 Besson
Techaical                                           Kayes Kouli Mopti
Messate             ORS   ON    OR    ORS ON   ORMK RR  DRA   DiA  OV
Plowing                                               s    s
Seeding (early)       x               x          x   x            x
Covering of Seeds                x                x
Hoeing                z               s           z   z    s      z    z
Seed cleaning
after soaking                   x               x
Thizming-paclng       z               s               x    z      z    z
Nursery bed pro-
paration (rices                                      z
Dry weeding (rice).  z           z    x 
Transplanting (rice)       z               x          z
Weeding                    z               x          z
Pesticides use                                                   x     z
Feld Partitioning         z               z
Harvesting and post-
harvest techniques                   x 
Mineral
fertilisation        x    x          x    x     x
Organic manure                                        x    z      z    z
Seed Treatment                                       z    s            x
Annexl-O.sar



MINHX 1
35                                  Page 11 of 17
Some extension messages are disseminated only at the OHV:
-    use of selected seed (millet, maize, rice);
-    animal traction;
-    crop intensification;
-    soil and vater conservation and erosion control;
-    vegetable growing;
-    cattle fattening;
-    improved stoves;
-    manure and compost tranches;
-    animal feeding and care;
-    manure stables;
-    promotion of small-animal raislng by vomen;
-    farm parcelling.
It is also noted that at the ONV these messages are recommended
for a vide variety of crops (including secondary crops such as tobacco,
cotton, maize, etc.).
2.14        Execution of the prograu bas been hasmpered by a number of
difficulties which can be ranked as follovw:
-    difficulties of coumitment by th extension institutions to the
program;
-    problems of multiple responsibilities (particularly those of
regional coordinator, supervisor and subject-matter specialist)
and performance of tasks outside extension from a certain level of
responsibility upward (sector chief, black chief.);
-    inadequacy of the training recoived by the extension agents;
-    non-funotioning, or poor funccioning, of the monitoring/evaluation
and research/support units at the extension institutions level;
-    late start-up of the extension vork;
-     inad.quacy of the available méans of transportation;
-     irr.gularity in paying agents' compensation;
-     lack of necessary equipment (rope, 20-meter measuring tape, animal
traction equipment, etc.) for proper execution of the extension
activitios and establishbont of the test plots.
2.15        The folloving table compares the results recorded by the test
plots vith those of the control plots:



ANNEX1
-36 -                                   Page 12 of 17
Average Yielda R.corded b! ON and ORS
1988/89 Season
(kg/ha)
ON                                    ORS
Demonstr.   Control     X            Demonstr.   Control      X
Crop        plot       plot   difference         plot       plot   difference
Rice        3100       2230        +39          1780         1100      +62
Millet/
sorghum       -           -         -           1500         1030      +46
Avaggpe Yieldn Recordbd b! Raves DRAs and ORM
1289/90 Seagon
(kg/ha)
ORm                                Kayes DRA
Demonstr.  Control     X           -Demonstr.   Control      X
Crop        plot       plot   difference         plot        plot   difference
Rice        1390       1130        +23          3500         2300      +52
Millet/
sorghum      370        270        +37          1680          860      +25
Kaize                                           2750         1890      +46
Groundnut                                       1420         1020      +39



- 37 -                                  ANE  1
Page 13 of 17
Avêrag Yi.lda Rêcorded b! nopti DRAs and OHV
1989/90 Seamon (Millet/Sorthum
(kg/ha)
Mopti DRA                               OHV
Demonstr.   Control     z            D.eonatr.   Cr- rol      X
Crop        plot       plot   difference         plot        p&ot   difference
Rice
Millet/
sorghum      520         310       +68           875          720      +22
Maize                                           2880         1900.    +52
Groundnut
&verag& Yield& Recorded b! OQR (Millet/SgrglmL 1989/90
(kg/ha)
ORS
Karkala Sector                           DIORO
Test      Control     X              Teot      Control      Z
plot      plot    difference         plot      plot    difference
519          480       +8 1/         1312         929         +41
21/   Effect of the drought



_    -                               Page 14. of 17
Practically ail the demonstration plots show more satisfactory
results than the control plots, for all cropa.
The farmers' replies concerning the positive impact of the
messages on the production of the test plots in terme of quality agree with
the quantitative data.
2.16        Surveys conducted umong a sample of farzmers <89 contact farmers
and 113 contact group farmers) furnished an assessmsnt of thé rates of
adoption of the extension messages (for zones in their second year) and the
rates of appreciation (for zones in their first y.ar). The folloving tables
show the messages most adopted and most appreciated, respectively:



39                                  Page 15 of 17
(as X of farmers surveyd)
ORS          ON         ORK
Messages Adopt.d            CF OF      CF  GF      CF   OF
Or u¢ manure                    70 40 j/
Thimning                        70  80
Planting date (ries            100 100
Ho. weeding                     70  70
Partitioniug                                70  80
Transplanting                               70  80
Weeding                                     70  80
Dry Weeding                                           100  100
<as X of fermers surveyed)
Koulikoro     Mopti
Kayes DRA      DRA         DIA        O0V
Messages Appreciated   CF  CF      CF   GF   _ CF  GF       CF   CF
Organie manure         95   90                 64   60           50
Start.up               90   84    100  100     64   60           50
Lino sowing                       100   80
Manura tronches                                              75
Eroslon control                                              25
Field partitioning                                           25
3.1   This relatively lov rate la due to lack of »mes.  of transportation
(barrovr) and dlffieulty in obtaiuing orgntie manure.
CF    -     Contact Farmers.
GF    -     Contact Group Farmers.



-40-                                   Page 16 of 17
Lessons to be drawn from exacution of the test ggain
The folloving points emerge from the opinions gathered among the
fatmers, extension agents and supervisors concerning the execution of the test
program:
2.17        Concerning organization, measures have been taken, more or less
successfully, to enhance efficiency.
(M)    The work dons with the farmera' groupe has fostered understanding
of the messages, and the frequent contacts between extension
agents and farmers hava led to better utilization of available
human resources (a larger number of farmers reached per extension
agent than in the past).
(ii)    The fortnightly timetable has permitted adherence to the work
program, regularity of contact between extension agents and
farmers, and transmission of the technical messages.
(iii)    The technical messages have proved to be relevant and in line with
the farmera' needs, being inexpensive, practically risk-free and
easy for the farmers to apply.
(iv)    The demonstration plots have made it possible to verify the
relevance of the technical messages, to bring home to the farmers
the cause and effect relationships between messages applied and
resulta, and in many cases to get them to adopt them.
5v)    The fortnightly meetings have provided opportunities to record and
update facto, analyze successes and difficulties; exchange ideas
among extension agents and between them and the farmers, and
improve activity planning.
(vi)    Problems have been encountered of performance of multiple
funstions and weakness of the monitoring/evaluation system.
Suitable solutions to those probleme will have to be sought.
2.18        Concerning training, the folloving points are noted:
-    Although the fortnightly training has not been given by
professionals with the necessary teaching and methodological
qualifications nor by subject specialiats, in most cases it has
succeeded in strengthening the competence of the village extension
agents.
-     Howsver, because of the Jhortcomings noted above, concepts such as
contact groupa, contact farmera and demonatration plots have not
been properly grasped in some test zones.
2.19        Concerning liaison betwe.n research and extension, except in the
OHV zone the scarcity of subject-matter specialist (SISs) seems to be the
basic cause of the poor linkages found. But the vay to improve liaison



ANEZ 1
Page 17 of 17
- 41 -
between research and extension is precisely by adding specialists who maintain
regular contact vith researchers and assure continuous exchange of information
with the farmers in order to transmit the techniques to them and pass their
problems on to research. Measures therefore need to be taken to ensure the
presence of subject specialists and guarantee liaison with research.
2.20        Concerning management, while much has been done, action remains to
be taken to:
-     secure total commitment on the part of the extension institutions;
-     ensure timely start-up of implementation of the extension
resources and vork;
-     relieve the extension agents of administrative and managerial
tasks;
-     define an institutional framework for collaboration with the
technical services with responsibilities in the rural areas.



MALI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Crop Extension Themes
j   TH IES       |                  Aval Ib                                                   To Bo Tbld
1RTlc (1) jRlc (2)   Mal!.   Ml1 lot   So.9hu.1 orpeus .Rie  (1) RIhe (2) !        e  mailz  I s
.Soll1 prfpar"lon          |IX I XI X                           X                    I X                 1        1         I         1  
si et:           ~ ~~I Ix    !                                      I    Ix             I xI  1            I    I    I                  i
jR.pIantlms                  I         I  X              I         I                  M         I         I1       I         I        1         I  
jThlomnag                    I          I l.        X I|X          I X                          I 1                I         I                  I   
Fl.d   ng                    1X                 I                  I        I         Il        I  
7eed_Iyo  7n  t                                     X
RInt reropp;ng              1         1    .  t         l                  }         11        |} X Il  .             X I       X   -    X
Stlprolte n                 I         lxix                           X X
lFaIIW roa mouare            I        li   X       .               I X§                         1        |         |   X I  X         | X   I  X g  1'
IPoutons                                            I is I                               I                             x I       xlqalyuuqa~ty  I  x    I
1Us o f.rlIttzehrtcl)            I K      K                 .. K           1:         1   X    7       x  laI x ucIy   I          
(2ved1aX cv rico
IIT.crp1n                      iiII                                                         xXx II xx
I  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
'x  x ~           l                                x'          
lorgenie Menure      x         x        x         xI            I                   '        I         I          
U» offert1lzurI                I        I                                                                                 XIX  Iim  qat1Y
Ilhur.11                                               l    I   IxIxxI1xI  x  xi
JProducUion sysem s                                                                                                                   lx i
INsu  verlseti   (Mhort  cycles)                                                          _____________________________
(1) CoutroIleld sub»relon
(2) Irrlgated rlce



-43                         N
Page 1 of 5
HALl
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Livestock Extension Themos
THEMES                     Available       To Be Tested
Nutrition and maintenance of draft oxen          X               X
Fodder crops                                                     x
_Mnure production                                X
Parasite control                                 X
8mall scale fattening                            X
8ilage harvesting                                x               x
Hay production and storage                       X
Use of agro-industrial by-products as            X
feed
Urea straw treatment                             X
Animal health control                            X
Vaccination against major animal                 X
diseases
Use of Bourgou grass                             X               X
Range land management                                            I
Milk production                                                  X          .
Village poultry production                       X
LIVEXT.TABIJNGEO0



-44                          _
Page 2 of 5
MALI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Livestock Extension Themes
1.    The Ministry of Environment and Livestock will participate in the
program through its National Directorates of Livestock (DNE) and Vater
and Forest Resources (DNEF). During the firet two years of the program
the DNE will conduct a test covering three regions (Mopti, Ségou and
Koulikoro) which will lay the basis for a true training-and-visit
extension program. An interim evaluation will be performed toward the
end of the second year to decide on the advisability of continuing and
possibly extending the program.
2.    Combating the major livestock epizootic diseases has long occupied
the attention of the Livestock Service, which in its zeal to protect the
herd practically relegated the other livestock activities - animal
production, space management, research and extension - to second place.
Despite the advent of the ODRs, extension has not really occupied its
rightful place in rural development promotion.  This has created an
urgent need to reorganize extension in order to redynamize it and tailor
it to the farmers' true needs.
3.   To achieve this, it is essential to train a new type of
(professional) extension agent to provide more effective guidance and
assistance to stockraisers and farmer/stockraisers and to set up an
adequate extension system.
Multiple objectives
The objectives of the program lncludes
-     enhancing the field agents' communication skills for the purpose
of transferring technology packages In the areas of animal health,
animal production, grazing and watering-point management, etc.
through basic and refresher training (holding of seminars/
workshops in the regions)g
-     organizing the stockraisers into associations and providing them
with continuous training with the object of raising livestock
production and productivity in the framework of the food self-
sufficiency ptogtam;
-     strengthening liaison between research and extension;
-     monitoring and evaluating the extension activities.
4.    The project will initiate an extension system and develop
professional extension agents whose services to the producers will
contribute substantially to the adoption of new technologies.
The extension activities will covert



~ 45 -                UANEX 3
Page 3 of 5
dissemination of technology packages to the rural areas;
consolidation of the linkages between researchers, extension
agents and producers, whose real needs vill be taken into account
ln the orientation and conduct of research;
control and supervision through an efficient monitoring and
evaluation system by means of which the necessary adjustments can
be made to ensure succeseful application of the methodt
basic and refresher training of agents at all levels.
5.    Extension messages
The following extension messages will be developeds
Ci)   Livestock feeding
-     rational use and management of grazing space (overgrazing,
firefighting teams, protective measures, etc.);
-     importance of forage and cover crope in animal feedings
-     rational use of echinochloa grazing land;
-     ensilage techniques;
-     hay harvesting and storage;
-     use of agroindustrial byproducts in livestock feed (urea
molasses, harvest residues, etc.);
-     urea enrichment of straw   a Atural straw and rice straw).
(ii)  Intensification of animal Droduction
(integration of cropfarming and stockraising)
-     care and feeding of draft animals;
-     production of organic manure (manure trenches) to fertilize
the fieldss
-     practice of livestock fattening by small farmers;
-     improvement of village poultry-keeping;
-     participation by vomen in the development of small ruminants
(milk production, processing of milk products, etc.).
(iii) Herd manaaement
-     improved selection through castration.



-46 -
Page 4 of 5
(iv) Animal health
_     practice of health policings
-     vaccination of animals against epizootic diseases (cattle
plague, bovine pleuropneumonia, anthrax, pasteurellosis,
etc.);
-     importance of internal and exte~-aa  parasite elimination to
animal health and productivity.
6.    During the first two years the project vill cover the folloving
three regionss Mopti, Ségou and Koulikoro.
Mopti region
Livestock sectors concernedt Bankass, Djenné, Douentza.
Livestock stations concernedt
-  at Bankass levels         Bankass, Dialassagou, Ouenkoro, Baye;
-  at Djenné levels          Djenné, Sofara, Mougna, Xonia;
-  at Douentza levels        Douentza, Bani, N'Gougma, Dinangourou.
Séaou reaion
Livestock sectors concerneds Ké-Macina, Niono, San
Livestock stations concerneds
-  at K6-Macina levels       Macina, Sarro, Nonimpébougou, Baye;
-  at Niono levelt           Niono, Sokolo, Séribala, Diabaly;
-  at San levelt             San, imparana, Sy, Djeli.
Koulikoro renion
Livestock sectors concerned: Banamba, Diolla, Nara.
Livestock stations concerneds
-  at Banamba levels         Banamba, Madina-Sacko, Bébêté, BErons
-  at Diolla levels          Diolla, Massigui, Béléco, Markakoungos
-  at Nara levels            Nara, Ballé, Dilly, Mourdiah.
7.    DNE's participation under the NAEP vill be aimed at bettur
integration of the farm-level extension programs of the Ministry of
Agriculture and the Ninistry of Environment.
Number of agents DroDosed bv DUE
-     national levels 2 DUE supervisors
-     regional level:  3 coordinators
-     sector level  s 2 local supervisors + 10 BMBs



~ 47 -                ANNEX3
Page 5 of 5
-     station level s 16 supervisors
-     village level s 43 extension agents
Environmental protection
8.    In the National Agricultural Extension Program, the MEE's National
Directorate of Forest and Water Resources (DNEF) vill participate in the
areas of technical support concerning messages to be transmitied to
farmers, training of extension agents, and monitoring of activities at
the village level.
(a)   The technical messages that can be applied by the farmers at the
village level are essentially the followings
-     Combating of brush fires: Organize the local population into
firefighting teams and monitor them; train the people in
fire prevention and simple firefighting methods.
-     Land clearance and establishment of fieldst Explain the need
to obtain a permit; explain the administrative procedure
concerning clearance and establishment of fields; train the
farmers in clearance techniques and methods.
-     Village aaro-forestrv: Explain the various roles played by
trees In fields (field boundaries, soil fixing, vindbreaks,
livestock feeding, etc.) and tree planting and maintenance
techniques.
-     Soil conservation: Train the farmers in erosion control
techniques (vindbreaks, erosion control strips), vater
conservation techniques (tilling, absorption trenches, etc.)
-     Protection and rational use of natural resourcest Protective
devices, plot enrichment, rational culling of natural
resources, improved stoves, rational charcoal production.
(b)   The extension agents vill be trained and supervised by Regional
Forest and Water Resources subject specialists forming an integral
part of the SMS field team but vorking part-time as and when
needed.
(c)   The activities at the village level vill be monitored by the
canton or forest station chiefs, whose work programs vill be dravn
up by the DEF in consultation vith Regional Coordlnation.
The envi-'nmental protection action zones vill in principle be those
covered by agricultural extension. The technical messages to be
disseminated vill take account of each region's specific characteristica.
Practical participation by the DNEF will take the form of preparation
of zone-level action programs in consultation vith Regional Coordination.
The program vill be executed under a memorandum of undersoanding between
the DNEF and the DNA.



mu
AURICULTURAL SERViCS PROJECT
Project Cnt Sa.r
FCFA                           US$                          X Tokl
S Forolgn     Base
Local  Foreign    Total        Local ForeIgn   Total      Exehang     Conte
A. AOICULTRAL EUXSIUN
1. INA                         199.2    19S.5    894.7          0.8      0.8      1.6         49.5      8.8
2. DRA - MtES                   228.4    202.9    426.4         0.9      0.0      1.7         47.0      6.8
8. ODIPAC - KITA                121.C    118.2    289.7         0.S      0.S      0.9         49.a      8.8
4. DRA - KOULIKORO              104.0     96.0    200.0         0.4      0.4      0.8         48.0      a.2
6. ODIPAC - KILO                106.7     89.2    196.0         0.4      0.4      0.0         45.8      3.1
6. POPAS                         51.2     86.7      86.9        0.2      0.1      0.8         41.1      1.4
7. DR - SEGOU                   112.5    100.0    219.8         0.4      0.4      0.9         48.7      3.5
8. OR8                          179.0    148.B    828.1         0.7      0.8      1.8         46.2      S.2
9. OA - IOPT                    815.2    819.6    684.8         1.2      1.8      2.S         CO.8     10.1
10. OR                          14.0    128.9    277.7           0.6      0.S      1.1         46.4      4.4
11. DRA - TOSWMBCT              102.5    107.0    209.5          0.4      0.4      0.8         Sl.1      8.8
12. 8oA - CAO                    90.2      90.2    180.4         0.8      0.4      0.7        S0.0       2.9
Sub-Total                         1764.1   108.8   8892.4          6.8      6.0    18.4          48.8     54.0
B. EXTENSDON - LIVESTOCK           486.8    49S.1    981.0          1.7     2.0      8.7         S3.1      14.8
C. EX113SION - ENIVINOmT          20B.2    286.4    602.0          1.0      110      2.0         47.0      8.0
D. APPULED ESEEAR                 n2.0    121.0    218.5          0.8      0.5      0.8         56.9      8.4
E. MNOITUARD/EVALUAATION          158.7    124.8    278.6          0.6      0.5      1.1         44.8      4.4
F. A Sl UT OF tUJCG1ON4EfT
1. FUN&lT ANAL UTERACY         429.0      79.4    509.0         1.7      0.8      2.0         15.6      8.1
2. ADVANCE FtR»CTL LUX CRAY      06.1       2.6      70.7        0.8      0.0      0.8          8.7      1.1
8ub-Total                         497.7      82.0    579.7         2.0      0.8      2.8         14.1      9.2
O. PPF  FDWIJAhB                    0.0    879.       879.S        0.0      1.5      1.5        100.0      6.0
Tobal  ASE     COSi              200.2   8077.7   6277.9         12.4    12.4    24.8           S0.2    100.0
iPbialoa  Contlagoaclas          59.2    1S4.2    218.4         0.2      0.6      0.0         72.8      8.4
Pries Contlimgac.ls             190.0    172.2    872.o          1.1     0.4      1.5        2M.9       5.9
Total PROJECTS COSTS              8450.2   8404.1   0068.8        18.7    18.5    27A1           49.6    109.8
Valuas SaI.d by 1000000.0 - 1/11/1991 8:27
Iag 
o
Fh



AORIWULTURAL SERVIS PROJECT
Summry Acont by ProJct Co_poot
RCFA
DM  -                                                         DR -
Du -  ODIPAC - KOULIK   ODRIAC -            oIA -               A -           T5OICT
N       KAMES    KTA       0      KmLO    PIPA      SEOW       RS     IPTI      UI       OU
I. INVESTIT COOTS
A. CI«IL UEo                     68.7    86.4       0.0      5.0      0.0      0.0   t .0        0.0      5.0      0.0   S .0
a. EJuNI'                        51.C    28.0       0.8      7.9      1.0      0.8      8.4      8.0    12.2       1.4      8.0
C. VICLES                        49.1    109.1     n.4    44.8   6 .1    20.7    55.0    98.2    12.4    7n.0               4.8
D. 1EAWD   DpI%f                  0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
E. IRADIN
1. 1RADoe COwU?                  0.2      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
2. IRAII UP lRADS                5.1       5.1     0.0      6.1      0.0      0.0      5.1      0.0      5.1      0.0      6.1
S. FIL V-SMICADh                00.4      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Sbb-toatl                        6.6       t.1      0.0      5.1      0.0      0.0      C.1      0.0      6.1      0.0      S.1
F. CONSULTAST UYXCES             40.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
O. SmDmIS                         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
H. mP REF_IN h                    0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0 
Total INYESIST COSIS           259.9    177.8     72.2    02.7    65.1    20.9    74.8   101.2   214.7    81.1    72.9
Il. IECtR8T cOS8
A. 1RAV. EXPISES                 42.4    187.8    87.8    78.6    80.t    40.6    80.4    140.4    225.1   112.4           70.0
S. OFFCE SUPPLIES                 8.7      1.4      0.0      1.4      0.0      0.0      1.4      0.0      1.4      0.0      1.4
C. VEaICLE MADITEIIANS           07.4   107.4    80.0    61.4        68.4     2t.4    o1.4       A.4    191.2    84.8      68.6
O. _ TIPUNT MAINTDWItE           21.8      2.2      0.2      1.0      0.0      0.0      1.0      0.0      2.4      0.0      1.6
E. DNPUS FOR TRIALS               0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Total REC1RT COSiS               184.0    248.7    17.4    187.8    108.9     66.0    14C.0    226.9   420.1   116.7    186.6
:.tal EAS£LINE COTS             J84.7   420.4   289.7    200.0    19t.0   80.9    219.8   J28.1    «4.0    277.7    209.t
Physieal Cont1ngsoo-l           24.7     19.6     7.2      O.5      6.6      2.1      7.7     10.1    21.7       8.1      7.6
Priet  Ciontitmsuoes            20.1    24.7    14.S    11.7    12.6         .8.     18.2    28.1    42.4    17.2        12.2
toal PROJECT COSTS               4M9A4   470.6   261.4   218.2    218.2    94.7    240.2   861.8   690.8   808.1    229.8
Tuxa.                           0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Forelgn Exchang                218.2   228.0   181.7   106.7    100.0    89.9   219.4   110.8    80.9   144.2    119.1
Vel%(s ScèaId by lOO1OO.0 1/11/1901  :n27
taa5
o
wI



MRI«LUM. Mis MOJECI
8bm.éry A.oum' bg Pr*Jo.b Cwn.oo.
FCFA
mSe      x      of   888*0    ATM   LiTCY LIBCY   1M
1. Il3nU  c0sTs
A. CII 8811W                    8.0      8.0     0.0      0.0    80.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
a. _IIpf                        7.0    75.0    27.8       0.0    7.8       1.9     0.0     0.0
C. w.aLa                       44.s    mo.o    a..    IMA         0.0    20.0      0.0     0.0
I. UAaI     EP11                0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0    77.2      0.7     0.0
a. ynmai
1. imADO C _w01                0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     2.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
2. lUDOF PimO                  8.1      8.1     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
8. FPL VIMSI/es                0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
$Nb-Itotl                       8.1      8.1     0.0      0.0     2.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
F. CIINISLT*  IRCES             0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
0. snr                          0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0    8.8       0.0     0.0     0.0
M. PmF ROCDU                    0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0   879.5
'n
Toul INVES1     COSIs           U.t2    0.0   90.4        1.0   182.8   18.0       8.7   879.5                            °
Il. RaEamr colst
A. IRAUEL E£_IMl                2.4      2.4    8.9    88.0    84.2    8.0          .1      0.0
B. ŒOE UWFUES                   1.4      1.4     1.4      1.1     1.4      0.0     0.0      0.0
C. UICL£ MADITEJI               82.7   2M2.8   09.9    71.0    17.7    2C.4        8.9     0.0
0. E _IIfT NaIWIIgAN            1.7      6.8     0.0      0.0    42.8      0.0     0.0     0.0
E. DUUM  FU IR1                0.0      0.0     0.0      8.2     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
Toul uEaUUw  mis               118.2    0.0    MA.1       A.0      .1  1"1.0    02.0        0.0
Total DASELDE COTS             100.4   M01.    802.0   21.8   27.0   80.0    70.7   879.8
physiel Costl.wles            0.8    88.8      9.0     C.2    19.4    18.0      0.9      0.0
Puies Conti leglsut           11.0    70.1    81.9    12.t    18.0    82.2       4.0      0.0
Totl POJEUT co<S               127.8  1087.0   844.1   281.2   810.9    "7.0    78.8   879.8
tu.                            0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Forelg.  sEx_                100.0    04.0   2f0.0   1".2    1.4    89.0         2.0   879.8
Val1 S.lId b 1000000.0 1/11/19M  8$27
Co



01
I4
§IU4O.           tise  uitit .oo ooot £q .Iuss   1'A
010      060        0
oeu      teu    tom      ce       ss                   saasu awoud ifflà
VS       t'a      0u                 oePUStt1WS  »Ig4
o*ste    ru  rets    r:                      uas "Imoeuiriasv l sg..L
us    Olt    o-o          o         ut-t d'l  10  .uum   suw±
l0       CL    010       000      c'S                 S1  *311 GiSi
zo9      1L    010       0-0      l0                SMWIUWm  Ulm        0*
lsoit    r      0   0     10 00   SOWt              E3IM     U  DDUa *3
i*t   99L    00          0°0   9         ,°° °rio   I1dG le
ruu:1   ru9   0o         0o0      ri sou                su       lAVUL IV
SlSO2 138M en
-I
suer1  irr    tom        *5       L'am              si.90 »anUa  'wï.L
010      010    0-0      000      s'Lu                   NMfiId  du 1*
Olt      *le    &l       t'O      s'a                          M-d 
9s       &le    010      010    0rOt                UiA    ADWlWUO là
9X9      8.3   #-Ot      OOt1    Som                            104"
9-t      t-L  0-9        0101     t'os          *t                    l
mg0      ru     Olt      0Ot      SIO1t             1       *
t'O      5*9    t'O       *OOt    OIS          .0 IV    I
Iile     58    *5        010t     O1110              JidDà  SDOL la
*lu     t*u    rue       o*t     o£e8               ODeDt è  0Q
0U        l*t    9U      *1t      00t l           -MUM  ai
9.1.03 *IU U 
vai
_Â3IUd U3IAB  Vm irZv
nm



MAU
A00IONIltRAL SERVICES PROJECT
Suusary Acouaes by Vésr
Total. bmcludlng Contilgmnclo         Totnlb Iocluding Contlngo cl-s
FCFA                                   USn
91/92  92f/O   98/94  94/96  Total   /91/92  928   98/94  94/96  Totol
L. DiISiMfl cos. . 
A. CIVL mall                 191.$   0.0   0.0   0.0  190.8         0.8   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.9
B. EQUDPIENT                 284.4  07.2  50.0   8.2  409.8         1.1   0.8   0.2   0.0   1.6
C. VEHICLES                  38A.4  lBo.C  858.5  187.8 1610.8      8.8   0.6   1.4   0.7   6.0
D. lEACHMI  EpIPUENT          48.0  48.7   8.0   8.1  97.8          0.2   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.4
E. TRAIDNM
S. IRADND COWDTE            0.8   0.8   0.9   0.9   8.4          0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
2. TRADWIB OF TRANS        45.8   0.0   0.0   0.0  45.8          0.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2
8. FP    VISIS/CAfhS        16.9  17.4  18.0  18.0  70.9         0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.8
S-Totl                        ôJ.O  18.8  18.9  19.C  119.6         0.2   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.6
F. COULTANT ShCES             10.1  10.6  10.8  11.1  42.C         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2
O. 8118118                     4.2   4.8  10.6  16.6  40.7          0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.2
H. mPF REFUUACDS             879.6   0.0   0.0   0.0  879.6         1.C   0.0   0.0   0.0   1.5
Total DMESITENT cOTOS       101.9  28C.6  4C2.8  244.8 2798.9       7.2   1.1   1.0   1.0  11.1
il. REOJIT COSIS
A. iRAVE oWIUuU              465.7  520.9  706.4  750.2 2448.2      1.8   2.1   2.8   8.0   9.7
B. OFFIE SULIES                4.4   4.8   4.7   4.8  18.4          0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1
C. VWICLE MADIIWNC           287.1  889.6  482.2  45.8  15i2.0      1.1   1.8   1.7   1.8   6.0
D. EGQIPlT  nfDNSNC           18.0  21.6  22.0  28.0  08.5          0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.8
E. DPUIS FM 11R1L              0.S   0.9   0.9   0.9   8.C          0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Totul IENRIT COTS            77.s  087.4 1106.7 1288.8 4004.8       8.1   8.5   4.6   4.9  16.1
Total EPROJCT coSTO         2692.7 1172.9 1619.6 1478.1  88.8      10.2   4.6   6.4   C.8  27.1
Val. Seold by 1000000.0 1/11/1991 8s27
Ft-



mu
AI0LUUAL SVKtS PROJECT
Fcag
Sencey Acoo.eUs by Veeur
esae Cnte                         Forlgo Exonge
01/02    02/      a94    94M/U      Te"al        X f
t. DEUIT comsTS
A. eir  mm                       189.9     0.0      0.0       0.0     6.9         0.0    0.0
B. EJin%                        2r4.1     60.0      41.7      6.0     .4         0.2   10.0
C. VHCLES                       744.6    117.9    294.O    1.8   10.7            0.9 1182.2
0. IEAiI £VJI0PT                 8C.C    42.8       2.0       2.6     05.9        0.0    0.0
E. lRADl
1. IRA«DOc _oWU                0.7       0.7      0.7   -  0.7      2.9        0.0    0.0
2. 1RADN OF IRAIERS           40.5      0.0       0.0      0.0    40.6       100.0   40.C
8. FnIU  IS1U/CAD  US 11.1                       15.1     15.1    00.4        47.0   28.4
Sub-tstal                        6J.8    1M.0    1M.8        15.0    100.#       06.4  08.9
F. COMhLTANT SVICES              10.0    10.0       10.0     10.0    40.0         0.0    0.0
0. STIDIES                        8.0      8.       14.0     14.0     85.6        0.0    0.0
H. PF REFM INCDIB               879.6      0.0      0.0       0.0    879.6      lO0.0  879.o
Total DIVESINDUT COSTS          lWJ6.5    247.7    J.7    199.C   2482.7         77.4 1921.4
nl. R£CURRENT CosTs
I. IRAVEL EoEus                 488.7    497.9   OS6.C    M75.7   2287.8          8.1  139.1
J. OFFIE SUPPES                   4.J      4.8      4.8      4.8      17.2       67.4   11.
K. VEHICLE MAINTENANCE          282.8    828.0    897.4    408.0   1406.2        67.4  94S.4
L. EmqIPff  AIUnTeWICE           10.6    29.6      20.7      21.0     80.7       07.8   54.8
M. DEPUIS FU TRIALS               0.6      0.0      0.6      0.8       8.2       06.9    2.9
Total RECURRT COTS              7t4.7     0 W.5   1079.0   1106.$   8705.2        0.5  llC4.8
Total MASEL   COSTS            2421.1   1094.2   1467.6   1t6.1   0277.9        49.0 8077.7
Physlcal Cootl.e ancl         1J5.2     28.0     8.9      17.8    21U.4       72.8   14.2
Prloe Catiagencles            8J.4    64.9    126.2    16S.5    872.0         46.8  172.2
Total PROJECT C06TS            2502.7   1172.9   1819.6   147J.1   OJJ8.3        49.6 8404.1
Ton"s                           0.0     0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0    0.0
For lga Exchang              1MA6.9    466.0    710.7    551.6   8404.1      100.0 8404.1
VYlus. Scaled by 1000000.0 1/11/1991 8:27
tu
o
Oh



MALU
A0RIOwL1UA  # VcuS FOJECT
uary _Acomate Cort Ouary
FCFA                        US                       S Total
S Forelp    eace
Local  Forelga    Toal     Local Foretg.   Total    E _ukang  Coot.
I. DIVUgTM c0lll
A. cm      nni                109.9     0.0   109.9        0.7    0.0    0.7          0.0      2.7
B.       T                     49.0   810.0    M0.4        0.2    1.2    1.4         M.2       8.7
C. MIES                       148.6  U10.2  1807.7         0.6    4.7    5.2         M.9    20.0
e. EAIN nImN1                  05.9      0.0    08.9       0.8    0.0    0.8          0.0      1.4
E. IDANUM
1. IANI  COWUT               2.9      0.0     2.9        0.0    0.0    0.0         0.0      0.0
2. IRAIND  OF TAINS          0.0    40.8    40.5         0.0    0.2    0.2        100.0     0.0
8. FI»  fflITO/CA             2.0    20.4    00.4        0.1    0.1    0.2        47.0      1.0
Sbb-Total                      84.9     «.9   108.S        0.1    0.1    0.4         00.4     1.7
F. CONSLTAT SvCiS              40.0     0.0    40.0        0.2    0.0    0.2          0.0     0.6
0. SlUDSE                      JS.C      0.0     C.S       0.1    0.0    0.1          0.0     0.0
H. PPF REPaNCIN                 0.0   879.5   879.5        0.0    1.S    1.5        100.0     0.0
Total INYEfIT cS E S           6S1.8  191.4  2482.7       2.1    7.7    9.0         77.4    J9.8
Il. EuZM     Cas
A. TRAVEL EXPE5              2148.7   189.1  2207.8        ô.4    0.ô    9.0          0.1    #8.4
s. arCE SUPPLDES                6.ô    11.S    17.2        0.0    0.0    0.1         07.4     0.8
C. VOUICLE MAINTDMWCE         467.9   948.4  140C.2        1.7    8.9    8.S         07.4    22.4
D. ETUNT MAXIIINCE             2S.4    $4.8    80.7        0.1    0.2    0.8         07.8      1.8
E. INPUTS FO IfRAU              0.4     2.9      8.2       0.0    0.0    0.0         00.9     0.1
Total RECURRT COSTS          2W8.9  1156.$  8796.2        10.2    4.2   18.0         80.8    00.8
Total BASELINE COoSr         8200.2  8077.7   ^277.9      12.4   12.4   24.8         60.2   100.0
PhWaOil Contllg ncl.         59.2   164.2   218.4        0.2    0.0    0.8        72.8      8.4
Pric. CoatIoCngpi           199.0   172.2   872.0        1.1    0.4    1.5        2S.9      5.9
ToOa I ROJECTS COSTS         8459.2  8404.1  o008.8       18.7   18.5   27.1         49.6   109.8
Valus Scal.d by 1000000.0 -  1/11/1991   27
Sp _
o* .*



- 55 -                             NE 
MALI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of IDA Credit
Cumulative
IDA Fiscal Year/                  Disbursement              Dilbursement
Semester                  Semester   Cumulative                z
FY 92
December 31, 1991 2            2.5 v         2.5                 10
June 30, 1992                  5.0           7.5                 31
FY 93
December 31, 1992              3.0          10.5                 43
June 30, 1993                  2.7          13.2                 54
FY 94
December 31, 1993              2.7          15.9                 65
June 30, 1994                  2.7          18.6                 76
FY 95
December 31, 1994              2.6          21.2                 87
June 30, 1995                  2.6          23.8                 98
FY 96
December 31, 1995              0.6          24.4                100
_/ Expected date of Board presentations April 1991,
expected date of credit effectivenesss October 1991.
21 Includes refinancing of PPF (US$ 1.5 million) and initial deposit into
Special Account (USS 1.0 million).



- 56 -
Page 1 of 2
MALI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Supervision Plan
1.    Bank Supervision Input into Kev Activities.  The staff input
indicated in the Table below is in addition to day-to-day supervision
during the firet project year provided by a Bank extension specialist
stationed in Bamako, and in addition to regular supervision needs for
the review of progress reports, procurement actions, correspondence,
etc. (estimated to require two staff weeks during the first project year
(when permanent Bank staff is stationed in Bamako) and three staff weeks
during the following three project years.
2.    Borrowerls Contribution to SuDervision.
(a)   Progress Reporte are to be submitted as followvs
(i)   They should cover all parameters of the project
execution (villages covered, approximate number of
beneficiaries, training, field trials, number of
functional literacy classes and number of
participants, messages extended and current issues
vith proposals how to solve them)t
(ii)  At the end of May and November of each years
CiiI) by the Project Coordinator of the National Directorate
of Agriculture who vili coordinate report preparation
by the various project executing agencies.
(b)   Project monitoring vill be the responsibility of the
Monitoring Unit at the Directorate of Agriculture which vill supervise
the lmplementation of the monitoring activities of the varicus executing
agencies. Description of the activities of the Unit vill be part of the
Progress Report.
(c) Each executing agency vould prepare by February each year a
vork program'i for the next agricultural season and submit this program
together vith a detailed budget for discussion and approval to the
Project Coordinator and the Director of Agriculture. The Project
Coordinator under the authority of the Director of Agriculture vill,
after discussion with the agencies and needed adjustments, submit the
program by mid-April to the Central Coordinating Committee for final
approval. The approved consolidated vork program and budget would be
submitted to IDA for commente and approval not later than the end of
April each calendar year. Also, by the end of April of each year, the
Director of Agriculture vould submit to IDA the audited project accounts
for the previous calendar year.



- 57 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
(d)   Mission briefing meetings on arrival will be chaired by the
Director of Agriculture; wrap-up meetings will normally be chaired by
the 'Directeur du Cabinet" of the Minister of Agriculture.
Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities
Approximate                                Expected Skill       Staff Inputs
Dates           Activity                 Requirements        (staff weeks)
4-5/91     Supervision Mission            Extension Monitoring )
(Start-up of Project)         Financial Analyst    )    6.0
5/91       Review of Work Plans           Extension             )
and budget                    Financial Analyst    )    1.0
5-6/91     Review of monitoring           Monitoring                 0.5
program
5-6/91     Review of training program    Training                    0.5
1-2/92     Supervision Mission            Extension             )
(to review implementation     Financial Analyst    )    4.0
after first 6 months)
5/92       Review of Work Plan            Extension
Budget                        Financial Analyst    )   1.5
Audit, Monitoring             Monitoring            )
6/92       Supervision Mission            Extension                  2.0
(to review implementation)
1-2/93     Supervision Mission            Extension             )
(to review implementation)    Training              )    4.0
Financial Analyst    )
5/93       Review Work Plan               Extension             )
Budget                        Financial Analyst    )    1.5
Audit, Monitoring             Monitoring            )
6/93       Mid-Term Review                Extension
(to review implementation     Monitoring
after 2 years and to         Training              )   8.0
recommend corrective         Financial Analyst    )
action if required)          Agriculture           ?
Livestock
Environment
1994-95    Yearly two Supervision         Extension
Mission and in-house          Monitoring
reviews of work-plan,         Training              >    18.0
budget, financial             Agriculture           )
management, etc.               Financial Analyst    )



- 58 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
MALI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Coste and Benefits
1.    Current Costs.  In the several Malian public institutions charged
with responsibilities for extension, there are about 2,000 staff engaged
in technology dissemination (excluding the CMDT zone). The total cost
of this staff, at an average salary and benefit cost of $2,000, is $4
million/year. Most of this staff receive little or no funds for
mobility, training and other operating costs. Exceptions are to be
found in some donor-financed projects.
2.    Incremental Costs.  Inspection of project cost tables shows that
incremental recurrent costs of extension (base cost) will be $13.4
million over the four years, or an annual average of $3.3 million. The
cost of vehicle and equipment acquisition is $6.6 million, with an
average useful life of (say) four years. Thus the annual incremental
costs, including vehicle and equipment replacement, will be about $5.0
million. These costs suffice to render effective 1400 field staff
(para. 3.08). Incremental cost per field staff averages $3,600 or less
than double the salary and benefit costs. Since the non-personnel cost
of good, i.e. mobile and continuously-trained staff, is SO large, these
expenditures will have to be carefully managed and monitored, whereby
best practices can be identified and transferred to other areas and
agencies.
3.    AagreRate Breakeven Benefits.  Any aggregate approach is subject
to undue simplicity, and averaging over diverse local circunstances.
Despite these limitations, an aggregate approach yields an order of
magnitude for breakeven benefits that can be a useful, albeit imprecise,
indicator of plausibility. Thus, with (i) a total rural population of 8
million, (ii) a rural population excluding the CMDT area of 6 million
and (iii) rural GDP/head of $300, project incremental costs are about
0.32 of the rural GDP outside of the CMDT area. Since the project will
only cover 60Z of the rural population in this area, the project
incremental costs are about 0.5Z of the GDP of the target population.
To break even, the project must increase this target population's income
by 0.52 per year. This modest increase seems eminently attainable when
compared with long-term growth of rural income, i.e. 2Zlyear, or with
the productivity increases observed, albeit on small plots, in the pilot
operations (Annex 1, pages 12 and 13). If staff salary and benefit
costs are also included, total annual cost would increase by $3.2
million to $8.2 millionlyear, or 0.52 of the rural GDP, or 0.82 of the
GDP of the target population. Income increases of this magnitude also
seem attainable.
4.    Breakeven Benefits at the Farm Enterprise Level.  As above, any
attempt to average over diverse local circumstances will conceal the
heterogeneity of local conditions and thereby provide a possibly
misleading indication of median incomes. Nonetheless, an average



- 59 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
approach to break-even enterprise benefits yields a useful order-of-
magnitude indicator of plausibility. Thusa
Rural population excl. CMDT zone           (million)  6.0
No. of Farm Enterprises                   (million)  0.75  ai
No. of Target Farm Enterprises (TFE)    (million)  0.45  bl
Incremental Cost per TFE                  ($lyear)      il
Rural GDP per Farm Enterprise              ($/year)   2400
Size of Farm Enterprise                   (ha)            6 £/
Value Added per ha (incl. livestock)    ($lyear)    400
Increase in Enterprise Value Added
from one 0.2 ha test plots  low         ($lyear)       20 d/
high       ($Iyear)      40 el
a/  Assuming 8 people per enterprise;
b/  60Z coverage;
c/  Simplifying assumptioni higher with animal traction, lover without;
di Low is 25Z increase in value added; this is nearly double the
incremental cost per Target Farm Enterprise (line 4);
e/  High is 50Z increase in value added, or more than triple line 4.
These breakeven benefits show that the incremental coet ($ll/year) is
easily covered if the Target Farm Enterprises put In an additional 0.2
ha test plot each year. Clearly, some enterprises will rapidly expand
the test plot to most or all of their area, i.e. full adoption. Equally
clearly, some enterprises will not put in any test plots, because they
have no labor, no manure, no traction capacity, no access to credit or
inputs, no security of tenure, nor means for risk-sharing. The median
outcome is indeed uncertain, and subject to different factor endowments
of different enterprises, but it suffices that 0.12 ha out of the 6 ha
farm (or 2Z) is farmed vith test plot techniques each year to cover the
incremental costs (or 12 in the high case). If staff salary and benefit
costs are also included, total cost per Target Farm Enterprise would be
$18/year, and it would suffice that 3% of the land is put to test plots
each year to cover the full cost (or 1.5Z in the high case).
5.    The uncertainties underscore the need for careful monitoring of
benefits - not only the number of test plots (and new tests), but also
the rate of expansion (or true "adoption") of the techniques tried out
on the test plots. Costs must also be carefuJ1y managed and monitored
so that best practices can be identified and transferred to other areas
and agencies. It will be by working on both the benefit and cost sides
of the breakeven calculation that the net benefit will be maximized.



M  A L I
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT                                                                                                     A  ALGE RIA
$ J  REGIONS WHERE EXTENSION ARE TO BE FINANCED DY THE PROJECT
REGIONS WHERE EXTENSIONS ARE FINANCED BY OTHER PROJECTS
CMDT REGIONS
NO AGRICULTURAL EXTENSIONS
A    IER HEAOOUARTERS
*    IER RESEARCH STATIONS
INRZFH HEADQUARTERS                                                                                           A
O     INRZFH REARCH STAIONS                                 TO   BOU  T`                                     R E GI O  N
«tRREGION CAPITALS                                                                                      R              M  A L
N SATIONAL CAPITAL                                               M      |                                              TOMO
REGION BOUNDARI                                                  /7"''°S       ~
*   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIBE/ Sg,                                        ,Z, f  é.  9  . \  |  6IR
KDI                                                                                 GUNE                 lAN E.oIN
XAYES 2YE    E/O                                  rs                    1       
g ~~~~~~~~~K <ULIKDRO NIGIR
|: S~~~~~~~~~~~~URKINA|f <E 
8   8 5/1  7 n+>ota * > t Farako 
;   R9G>z} .  +   X 7    ~~~~~~$=dXiX°'dv   M~NAURITANIA    M A L I 
| O ~50  100 150    O200    <>2S                                                                   ptr&_t          -E4              Bmako«   
_                           |       COT  ~~~~~~~~~~~D IVOIRE    tXGUINEA                                                   <~}NGRA Q



