Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19323 -ML
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(CREDIT 2235-MLI)
May 20, 1999
Rural Development III
Country Department 15
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
CFA francs (CFAF) per US5
1990  =  319
1991  =  282
1992  =  264
1993  =  283
1994  =  547
1995  =  500
1996  =  511
1997  =  583
1998  =  605'
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Av'B         Field Extension Workers (Agent de vulgarisation de base)
CFAF         Currency of the Monetary Union of West African States
GC (         Contact Group (Groupe de Contact)
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IER          Rural Economics Institute (Institut d'economie rurale)
MDRE         Ministry for Rural Development and Environment (Ministere du
developpement rural et de 1 'environnement, renamed Ministry of Rural
Development and Water in 1997)
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
OD)R         Rural Development Agency (Operation du developpement rural)
OlHVN        Haute Vallee Development Agency (Operation Haute-Vallee du Niger)
ON           Office du Niger
OP           Farmers' Organization (Organisation paysanne)
ORS          Segou Rice Agency (Ope'ration Riz Segou)
PI)          Demonstration Plots (Parcelles de demonstration)
PGRN         Natural Resource Management Project (Projet de gestion des ressources
naturelles)
PNVA         National Agricultural Extension Program (Programme national de
vulgarisation agricole)
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SG2000       Sasakawa Global 2000
SOP          Farmers' Organization Specialist (Specialiste en organisations paysannes)
T&kV         Training and Visit
TS'          Subject Matter Specialist (Technicien specialise)
Average throughJune 30, 1998.
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January I     December 31
Vice-President             Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFRVP
Country Director           Hasan Tuluy, AFC15
Resident Representative    Grace Yabrudy, AFMML
Sector Manager             J.-P. Chausse /I1. Girardot-Berg, AFTR3
Country Coordinator        Patrick Labaste, AFTR3
Task Team Leader           Franz Schorosch, AFMCI



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(CREDIT 2;35-MLI)
Table of Contents
PART I: PROJECT  IMPL EMENTAT ION  R EVIEW  ................................................1.
A.            INTRODUCTION  ...................NT........................O.................UCT................................ON.............................. 1
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES                                                                                 .I
C.       ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ...........................................................................                                           2
C.1.         Agricultural and  Livestock  Extension  Services ........................................................................... 2
C.2.         Traing ...........................................................................                                                                  5
C.3.         Research-Extension  Linkages .............................................................................                                          5.
C .4.        Functional Literacy ............................................................................ 6
D.  IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR ISSUES AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ................. 6
D.I.          Govern        ent ...........................................................................6 
D.  1.1.    Under Govem ent Control .............................................................................                                       6
D. 1.2.    Outside of Government Control ...........................................................................                                    7
D.2.         Other ............................................................................ 7.
E.       SUSTAINABILITY .............................................................................. S.
F.       BANK  PERFORMANCE .............................................................................                                                         8
G.       BORROWER  PERFORMANCE ......................................................................... .   9
H.       IMPLEMENTING  AGENCY  PERFORMANCE ...........................................................................                                            9
I.       PROJECT OUTCOME ........................................................................... 9
J.       FuTuRE  OPERAnON ................                                                                                                                      10
K.       LESSONS LEARNED ................                                                                                                                       1.0
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION ...J
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS.                                                                                                                                      11
TABLE 2: RELATED IDA CREDITS .12
TABLE 3:: PROJECT TIMETABLE                                                                                .13
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL .13
TABLE 5: KEY  INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...................................................4..................... 14
TABLE 5SA: STAFFING.                                                                                                                                             14
TABLE SB: EXTENSION RATIOS ............................                                                                                                         14
TABLE 5C: REGIONAL COVERAGE ..15
TABLE 5D: TRAINING ..............IS................                                                                                                      ...... 15
TABLE 5E: ALPHABETIZATION .......................... ............. 15
TABLE 5F: SUPPORT TO FARMERS' ORGANIZATIONS.                                                                                                                     L5
TABLE 5G: ADOPTION RATE OF MAIN EXTENSION THEMES.                                                                                                               16
TABLE 5H: PROJECT IMPACT DATA .18
TABLE 5I: AREA UNDER IMPROVED TECHNOLOGY .19
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION ................................................   19
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT ................................................                                       20
TABLE 8: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANcINx ............................................... 7 1
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS ............................................... 21
TABLE 8B   PROJECT FINANCING ...............................................                                             21.
TABLE 9: ECONOMItC CosTs AND BENEFITS ................................................... 1
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ...............................................                                         23
TABLE I 1: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ...............................................                      26
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ...............................................                                      26
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ...............................................                                          27
ANNEXES
Annex 1:    A.ide-Memoire of ICR Mission
Annex 2:    Completion Report prepared by the Borrower
Annex 3:    Borroweres comments on ICR
MAP:                 IB3RD No. 22458



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2235-MLI)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the National Agricultural
Extension Project, for which credit 2235-MLI in the amount of SDR 18.3 million
(US$24.4 million equivalent) was approved on May 2, 1991.
The credit was closed on June 30, 1998, compared to the original closing date of
September 30, 1995. The credit was fully disbursed and the final disbursement took
place on September 1, 1998.
The ICR was prepared by a team led by Abdoulaye Tour62, AFMCI, of the Africa
Region and reviewed by Jean-Paul Chausse, Sector Manager, AFTR3, and Hasan Tuluy,
Country Director, AFC 15. The Borrower has prepared its own completion report, which
is attached to the ICR (Annex 2).
Preparation of the ICR was begun during a mission in November 1998. It is based on
material in the project files. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by
contributing views reflected in the mission's aide-m6moire and commenting on the draft
ICR.
2  The team members were Abdoulaye Toure (AFMCI), Agadiou Dama (AFMML) and Dirk Prevoo
(AFTR3). Willem Zijp (RDV) participated during part of the mission.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(CREDIT 2235-MLI)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    From 1967 until the 1980s, extension services were provided by a large number of
Government agencies and autonomous development projects. In the mid-eighties, it became
apparent that this system was costly and had failed to achieve itsobjectives It was against this
background that the Government requested IDA assistance for the implementation of a pilot
agricultural extension project. The pilot started during the 1988/89 crop season and was extended
during the subsequent season. An evaluation of the pilot carried out at the end of the second
season led to Government requesting IDA for assistance in launching a larger scale operation.
Project Objectives
2.    The project represented the first four-year phase of a long-term national program, the
National Agricultural Extension Program (PNVA), designed to strengthen agricultural, livestock
and forestry extension with a view to generate increased agricultural production and sustained
growth of farmers' and herders' incomes. The main elements of the project were: (i) efficient
organization of extension services, provided with adequate human and physical resources, at the
farmer, regional and national levels; (ii) regular and continuous training of responsible officials at
each level; (iii) strengthening of the linkages between the extension services and the national and
regional research services in order to find solutions to farmers' problems; (iv) strengthening of
relations between the crop, livestock and environment services so as to ensure effective extension
support for the agricultural livestock and forestry development programs; and (v) functional
literacy and numeracy training for both men and women, including stepped up promotion of
participation by women to enable them to play a more active role in rural development and to
progressively assume a greater role in village association activities and management.
3.    The objective of the project was in line with the country's and IDA's development
strategies and project design was pertinent to the problems facing the agricultural sector and the
analysis presented in the SAR was satisfactorily. The design had, however several weaknesses:
(i) the objective was not quantified and few criteria were included in the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR) to evaluate the project's impact; (ii) Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) was not explicitly
included; and (iii) the functional literacy component was initially poorly defined, which was
corrected following the mid-term  review.  These deficiencies had no impact on project
implementation. The main risks identified at appraisal were: (a) the possible inability of
extension and research services to produce workable solutions to farmers' and herders' problems;
(b) problems related to interagency coordination; and (c) possible failure by Govemment and/or
donors to sustain the long-term commitment required to achieve durable improvements in the



effectiveness of agricultural support services. Only the first risk somewhat negatively affected
project implementation.
Implementation Experience and Results.
4.    The project's overall objectives were fully achieved.  The extension service was
strengthened and streamlined with the introduction of truly polyvalent extension workers and
collaboration between the different partners (other development projects, NGOs, other
Government agencies) was especially strengthened. 11,559 contact groups were established, of
which 2,098 women groups and 619 mixed groups. Membership of these groups totaled 120,258
(of which 22 percent women). Diffusion from contact group members to non-members was,
however, almost non-existent in part because this was not encouraged by the project or by the
villagers. A large number of demonstration plots were established focussing on agricultural,
livestock and environment related themes (see also Table 5B, Part II). Adoption rates varied
greatly by technical theme and from year to year. They ranged from a high of 77 percent for
organic manure in Mopti, 70-80 percent for crop planting and care (also inMopti) and about 60
percent for seed density in Kayes and Koulikoro (see also Table 5G, Part II). Possible factors
influencing adoption of some themes seems to be the high initial cost to the farmer of the new
technology, and insufficient access to inputs, credit and markets. Sustained high adoption rates
were usually achieved for low cost interventions with high pay-off, such as organic manure,
adherence to the agricultural calendar and proper crop care and planting techniques, treatment of
seeds, new varieties, vaccination of poultry, fattening of cattle, anti-erosion devices (stone contour
bounds, hedges), aLgro-forestry, and improved stoves for cooking. Not all technical themes
proposed by the PNVA had a positive impact on production, as shown by the yield for groundnuts
and naturally did not result in adoption. Collaboration between research and extension was also
institutionalized, but results were less than expected because of a lack of trained staff. Field trials
were well executed by the Rural Economics Institute (IER), PNVA and the participating farmers
and resulted in the dissemination of 5 new technical messages and 11 new varieties in 1995/96
and one new technical message and 12 new varieties in 1996/97. The alphabetization component
fully achieved its stated and revised objectives.
5.     The project's outcome is rated as satisfactory by the ICR mission, which is the same as
the F590/PSR rating. Two independent studies were executed to measure project impact. Both
studies were carried out during the 1995/96 agricultural season, but results became available too
late to be of use during the last year of project implementation. The outcome of the beneficiary
assessment was generally positive, but underscored some of the limitations of the project (access
to credit, water, access to input and output markets).
8.    No in-depth economic analysis was presented in the Staff Appraisal Report. Based onan
data available to the ICR mission the economic rate of return of the project is estimated to be
about 12-15 percent.3 An evaluation of the project at the farm level shows that farm income
increased markedly for farmers adopting technical themes. The most profitable of these were
cattle fattening, poultry vaccination, application of organic manure and treatment of seeds.
3   This analysis is presented as an illustration of project impact only. The assumptions are summarized
in Table 9, Part ]I,



9.     Sustainability of the investments made under the project is uncertain. On the institutional
side, the project has put in place a more efficient extension organization that collaborates closely
with other partners and has contributed significantly to human resources development. On the
financial side, the system is not sustainable. The present system still has too high a cost per
beneficiary member relative to other extension projects in the region (about US$40 per year
versus a norm of US$10-15) and more efficient means of increasing the diffusion of technologies
need to be looked into (radio, theater, multi-media, etc.). For the foreseeable future, Govemment
is not able to support extension services without outside support. Farmers are also unable to
significantly contribute to the functioning of extension services. These issues will be addressed
under the proposed follow-on project, the Agricultural Services and Farmer Organizations
Support Project.
10.    Performance by the Bank, Borrower and Implementing Agency was satisfactory at all
stages of the project cycle.
Summary of Findings, Future Operation, and Key Lessons Learned
10.   No plan for the future operation of the project was prepared by the Borrower.
11.    The key lessons learned from this project are that:
(i) an institutionalized system of close collaboration with other projects, agencies and NGOs can
yield a much greater impact than would be possible with a standard project. Despite the end of
outside funding to the PNVA, the system was still functional at the time of the ICR mission; (ii)
there is a desire amongst farmers to assume responsibility for activities that were in the past
carried out by the extension services. A key example is poultry vaccination, that is highly
profitable to farmers; (iii) to increase the effectiveness of the second phase of the PNVA, which
would amongst other things require an increased role of farmers and farmers organizations in both
decision making and financing of services, it will be necessary to decentralize and effect
institutional reforms; (iv) The adoption of the next level of technologies will require that priority
needs are addressed at the farm level, such as access to short - and medium-term credit, and
markets.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(CREDIT 2235-MLI)
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION REVIEW
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    From 1967 until the 1980s, extension services were provided by the regional directorates of agriculture,
18 Rural Development Agencies (ODRs, Operations de developpement rural), three Offices, as well as various
autonomous development projects. In the mid-eighties, financial difficulties, less than expected results and the
effects of a drought, combined to create a crisis situation for the ODRs. A decision was subsequently made to
restructure and/or liquidate them. It was against this background that the Government requested IDA assistance
for the implementation of a pilot agricultural extension project. The pilot started during the 1988/89 crop season
in the intervention areas of three ODRs: Segou Rice Agency (ORS,Operation Riz Segou), Mopti Rice Agency
(Operation Riz Mopti) and Office du Niger (ON) - in Niono - areas and was extended during the subsequent
season to include the areas covered by the regional directorates of agriculture in Mopti, Kayes and Koulikoro and
the Haute Vallee Development Agency (OHVN,Op6ration Haute-ValWe du Niger). At the end of the second
season, an evaluation of the pilot was carried out by a team of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of
Environment and Livestock. The overall conclusion of this evaluation was highly positive with substantial
increases in yields on demonstration plots in farmer's fields. Based on these results, the decision was made by
Govemment to request IDA for assistance in launching a larger scale operation.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIES
2.    The project represented the first four-year phase of a long-termn national program, the Agricultural
Extension Program (PNVA, Programme National de Vulgarisation Agricole), designed to strengthen
agricultural, livestock and forestry extension with a view to generate increased agricultural production and
sustained growth of farmers' and herders' incomes. The project built on the experience gained during the
implementation of the aforementioned pilot project. The main elements of the project were:
(a) efficient organization of extension services, provided with adequate human and physical resources, at the
farmer, regional and national levels;
(b) regular and continuous training of responsible officials at each level by means of a system of fortnightly,
monthly and armual training sessions, including training courses held outside of Mali or conducted by
extemal participants;
(c) strengthening of the linkages between the extension services and the national and regional research services
in order to find solutions to farmers' problems. Technical problems such as those related to soil and water
conservation, diversification of production through cropping systems adapted to particular ecological zones



2
and to the environment, soil fertility, and ecologically adapted varieties were to receive priority under the
adaptive research programs;
(d) strengthening of relations between the crop, livestock and environment services so as to ensure effective
extension support for the agricultural livestock and forestry development programs;4 and
(e) functional literacy and numeracy training for both men and women, including stepped up promotion of
participation by women to enable them to play a more active role in rural development and to progressively
assume a greater role in village association activities and management.
3.    The objective of the project was in line with thecountry's and IDA's development strategies. It was,
however, presented as a first phase of a long-term program, without explicitly defining what this implied (no
description of a program and no specific short-, medium- and long-term objectives). The project's objective was
not quantified and few criteria were included in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) to evaluate the project's
impact. As was the case of many extension projects prepared in the late 1980s, the emphasis was placed on
inputs not outputs and no detailed cost-benefit analysis was included in the SAR. The project's design, however,
was pertinent to the problems facing the agricultural sector and the analysis presented in the SAR was
satisfactory. Project design was, however, weak concerning Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E), as no indicators
had been established and insufficient support included for this activity. The functional literacy component was
initially poorly defined, which was corrected following the mid-term review. Finally, project costs for training
had not been properly estimated at appraisal and actual costs greatly exceeded estimated costs (para. 23). These
deficiencies had no impact on project implementation. The main risks identified at appraisal were: (a) the
possible inability of extension and research services to produce workable solutions to farmers' and herders'
problems; (b) problems related to interagency coordination; and (c) possible failure by Government and/or
donors to sustain the long-term commitment required to achieve durable improvements in the effectiveness of
agricultural support services. Only the first risk somewhat negatively affected project implementation.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.    The project's overall objectives were fully achieved as detailed below. The extension service was
strengthened, collaboration between the different partners (other development projects, NGOs, other
Government agencies) was especially strengthened, as was the collaboration between research and extension.
The alphabetization component fully achieved its stated objectives, although it has become apparent during
project implementation that other blockages need to be resolved if lasting Farmers Organizations (OP,
Organisations Paysannes) are to be established. These issues will be addressed under the follow-onproject
which is presently under preparation.
C.1.  Agricultural and Livestock Extension Services
5.    The specific objective for this component, to reinforce and reorganize agricultural services, was fully
achieved. Prior to the PNVA. many areas were deprived of extension services. The PNVA was able to quickly
increase coverage from 2,234 villages in 1992/93 to 4,143 villages in 1995/96 (see also Table 5, Part II), which is
about 50 percent of all villages outside of the CMDT area or 57 percent of cultivated land (the appraisal
objective was 60 percent of cultivated land). At the regional level, the PNVA successfully put in place a
coordination mechanism, which included bi-monthly meetings of all coordinators of projects, such as the Natural
4   This component is discussed together with agricultural extension services component



3
Resources Management Project (PGRN), ON, ORS, OHVN, and other partners, including NGOs such as
Sasakawa Global 2000 (SG2000), operating in the region, and jointbi-monthly supervision missions. Monthly
supervision missions were carried out by technical staff. Reprnsentatives of the regional government also
participated in these meetings. The goal of the monthly meetings was to maximize development impact by
agreeing on priorities which put resources where they were most needed and thus prevent overlapping of
activities, and share best practice examples. Prior to the PNVA, several staff provided advice relevant to its own
domain (agriculture, livestock or environment) in the same village. The PNVA successfully put in place a
polyvalent Field Extension Worker (Agent de Vulgarisation de Base, AVB), who became the sole interlocutor
for the farmer and provided agricultural, livestock and environmental advice to farmers. The extension service
was able to maximize coverage as a result of the close collaboration with other projects, NGOs and agencies in
each of the regions. The effectiveness of the extension service was independently reviewed in 1995/96, with the
results reported in January 1997. Measures to address the issues raised during this review (insufficient access by
women farmers, use of multi-media, lack of water, etc.) were not fully implemented because of the restructuring
of the Ministry of Rural Development and Environment (MDRE, later Ministry of Rural Development and
Water) in 1997 (para. 19).
6.    The project applied the Training and Visit (T&V) approach to extension. Staffing was over most of the
project implementation period adequate to achieve project objectives. It was, however, inadequate to fulfill the
demand by the regional governments to increase coverage. No new staff could be hired as the result of an
agreement between the Government and the IMF. The number of AVBs increased over time with the expansion
of the PNVA and the inclusion of agents from several other development projects and agencies. The total
increased from 513 in 1993/94 to 621 in 1995/96, and 737 in 1996/97, despite a slight decrease in the total
number of field staff, because of inclusion of the AVBs from the PGRN and the Livestock Development Project.
The present ratio of 16-24 Contact Groups (GC, Groupe de Contact) per AVB is considered adequate. This ratio
was adjusted down from 40 following the mid-term review. The number of women AVBs is still very low (13),
which poses problems in some areas, where cultural practices require that GCs constituted of women cannot
work or do not want to work with male AVBs (in about 16 percent of the cases). The planned and actual ratio of
four AVBs per Direct Supervisor is, however, too low. Experience in other countries has shown that a ratio of 8-
10 is more appropriate. Changing the ratio does not have an adverse impact on the quality of work by the AVB.
Staff evolution and ratios are shown in Table 5A, Part II.
7.    The AVBs established 11,559 GCs, of which 2,098 women groups and 619 mixed groups. Membership
of these groups totaled 120,258 (of which 22 percent women). In generalgroups were constituted by selecting a
person from each extended family and thus about 30 percent of the total number of farms were reached. In
general, GCs worked well, with almost sixty percent of the GCs having participation rates of 8 members or more
(the average size fluctuated between 10 and 12). Especially in the case of GCs constituted completely of
women, participation rates were high and often the groups were relatively large (often at the women's
insistence). Diffusion from GCs to non-members who were part of their extended family was almost non-
existent. The system did not encourage this, as AVBs were not evaluated on the basis of diffusion rates but
rather on the basis of the number of GCs established, the number of demonstration plots, and adoption rates. In
addition, group members were not aware that they were supposed to inform non-group members of what they
had received training in and insufficient social cohesion or control existed in villages to require them to do so.
8.    In 1996/97, a total of 18,900 agricultural Demonstration Plots (PDs,Parcelles de demonstration),
30,472 livestock PDs, and 10,180 environmental PDs were established. Evolution of the PDs over time is shown
in Table 5B, Part II. Adoption rates varied greatly by technical theme and from year to year. They ranged from a
high of 77 percent for organic manure in Mopti, 70-80 percent for crop planting and care (also in Mopti) and
about 60 percent for seed density in Kayes and Koulikoro. Details are shown in Table 5G, Part II. Within the
same region, adoption rates could vary by as much as 40 percent from one season to the next. The PNVA did not



4
carry out an in-depth review to evaluate the reasons for this. Possible factors influencing adoption of some
themes, such as the addition of phosphates to organic fertilizer, seems to be the high initial cost to the farmer of
the new technology, and iinsufficient accest to inputs and credit. Sustained high adoption rates were usually
achieved for low cost interventions with high pay-off. In the case of agriculture these themes include organic
manure, adherence to the agricultural calendar and proper crop care and planting techniques, treatment of seeds,
new varieties, etc. In the case of livestock these include vaccination of poultry and the fattening of cattle. For
environment these themes included anti-erosion devices (stone contour bounds, hedges), agro-forestry, and
improved stoves for cooking. Not all technical themes proposed by the PNVA had a positive impact on
production, as shown by the yield for groundnuts and naturally did not result in adoption.
9.    The project insufficiently developed non-traditional means to diffuse or create interest in technical
themes, as recommended by the mid-term review. Radio was insufficiently used and a survey showed that only
two percent of farmers got information on extension from the radio, even though most rural households possess a
radio. Multi-media or theater was only tested as a potential means to create interest in extension and GCs, but
not further developed5.
10.   Annual programming was based on on-farm or village level diagnostics, which were to be carried out by
the AVB supported by multi-disciplinary teams including TSs and research staff. This did not function well and
in the end this was done by the AVB only. AVBs lacked the technical skills to probe for causes underlying
constraints cited by farmers and as a result, the pertinence of the diagnostics was limited. In addition, the
diagnoses were aggregated at thearrondissement, cercle and regional levels. It was only at thecercle level that
TSs and research staff intervened in the diagnostics process. Themes were then selected on the basis of the most
commonly cited problems, which may have bome little to no relevance to real constraints. This likely explains
the emphasis in the work program on technical messages that already had a reasonably high adoption rate.
11.   Until 1997, regular project supervision was carried out at the national and regional level. The National
Coordination Committee, which was the overall supervisory body for the project, consisted of the Secretary
General of MDRE and the MDRE Department Directors. This committee effected on average one supervision
mission per year and was joined by representatives of the regional governments. Regular supervision at the
national level was carriedl out by the PNVA coordination team (coordinator and technical staff) with
representatives from MDRE. This team visited each region 3-4 times per year. The Agricultural Services
Specialist at the resident mission in Bamako, also regularly participated. At the regional level, bi-monthly
supervision missions were carried out, with participation of the regional coordinators of all collaborating projects
and NGOs, and regular monthly supervision missions were carried out by technical supervisory staff. Even a
commission from parliament effected twofact finding missions and issued very favorable reports on the impact
of the PNVA.
12.   An M&E structure was established within the PNVA. This structure was highly decentralized with
almost all staff in the field. Data was collected independent of the AVB, allowing a relatively unbiased view.
During project implementation, a vast amount of information was collected this way and presented in arnual
reports. Most of this data has been useful, but it has had a very limited impact on work programs. Insufficient
support was provided to the project to establish proper indicators on which to focus (not even at the time of the
mid-term review) and no effort was made to create a coherent computerized database that would have enabled
cross checks with the databases of theServices des Statistiques of the MDRE and theInstitut du Sahel, and easy
analysis of time series data. In addition, the PNVA lacked the capacity to properly evaluate all data, leading to
errors in data processing, anrid insufficient attention had been placed in project design to strengthen the capacity
5   Government disagrees with the conclusion of the ICR mission as detailed in their comments in Annex 3.



5
of the PNVA to properly interpret the data and use them as a management tool. Computers were purchased very
late during project implementation, but no training was provided nordatabase software purchased. The structure
also seems costly, with 125 staff, mostly data collectors. The M&E service was unable to carry out a planned
survey of the financial impact of the project, even though it had been planned since 1995.
C.2.   Training
13.    Systematic in-service training was provided as follows:  fortnightly training (FQ ,formation des
quinzaines) for AVBs provided by TSs, and Monthly Technical Review Workshops (AMRT,A4teliers Mensuels
de Revue Technique) for TSs with participation by research staff. The AMRTs were in general well and
regularly organized. From 1992/93 to 1997/98, 446AMRTs were organized versus 592 planned (70 percent),
with a 92 percent participation rate. One technical theme was presented at each AMRT in about 90 percent of
the cases, which is judged adequate. AMRTs related well to the FQs, but the content of the technical themes
need to be reviewed as many themes are repeated year after year in cases where adoption rates have already
reached a reasonably high level (over 80 percent). This related closely to the earlier cited problem with the
diagnostics (paras. 9-10). The principal themes were: agriculture (adherence to the agricultural calendar,
selected seeds, seeds treatment, composting), livestock (intemal and extemal parasites, fodder crops, and
vaccination and housing of poultry), and environment (agro-forestry, pruning, anti-erosion measures). FQs were
also regularly organized and attendance was around 80 percent of planned. Theimpact of this training was
limited by the low level of initial training of the AVBs and the attendance was negatively affected by the lack of
mobility of field staff.
14.   Training was provided to eleven staff chosen to become training specialists (one from each of the seven
regions, one from the National Directorate, and three who had originally been designated to become training
coordinators, but never took up their position). Two of the staff received training in France, the other nine in
Mali. The seven specialists were responsible for planning and supervising all PNVA related training. The
training was credited by project staff for having made the specialists more adept at the planning, conception and
evaluation of training modules.
C.3.   Research-Extension Linkages
15.   The Rural Economics Institute (Institut d'conomie rurale, IER) was to carry out each year field trials on
30 themes in each of the six regions. In reality in 1994/95, 51 trials were carried out in the PNVA area, of which
12 themes in Mopti and 13 in Kayes. In 1995/96, 51 themes were also carried out, of which 18 in Mopti and 8 in
Kayes. The reasons for the much lower than planned execution (less than one-third) were delays in making
funds available, which lowered the number of trials, and poor planning. Environmental, livestock and post-
harvest themes were limited because the respective TSs initially insufficiently participated in the diagnostics,
and it turned out to be more difficult than planned to translate these into research themes. The field trials were,
however, well executed by IER, PNVA and the participating farmers and resulted in the dissemination of 5 new
technical messages and 11 new varieties in 1995/96 and one new technical message and 12 new varieties in
1996/97. 6
16.   No farm budget analyses were carried out to assess the potential impact of the proposed technical
messages on farm income and whether this would be consistent with risks given the enormous dependency on
6   In general, there was a two to three year delay between start of a field tral and readiness of such themes for
dissemination by the extension service.



6
climatic vagaries. Too much emphasis was placed on resolving technical problems. In addition, the farming
systems approach was insufficiently utilized to create coherent technical themes. The disregard of financial costs
in the evaluation of technical themes is evident in the adoption rates. Some themes that require relatively high
up-front financial investments (e.g. the combination of phosphates and manure) have a much lower adoption
rate, given the high risk of a poor agricultural season and the lack of access to credit. In addition, access to
market outlets plays an important role in the adoption of technical themes.
C.4.  Functional Literacy
17.   This component fully achieved its initial objective of supporting OPs through the establishment of 400
adult literacy centers and was implemented by the National Directorate of Functional Literacy and Applied
Linguistics (Direction nationale de  'alphabetisation fonctionnelle et de la linguistique appliquee, DNAFLA).
The villages constructed 385 centers themselves with the PNVA only providing finishing materials. In addition,
the PNVA regularly supplied alphabetization centers with local language newspapers, magazines, books, and
technical bulletins on crop cultivation, health and nutrition. In total 560 villagers, of which 65 women, were
trained to teach alphabetization classes in the villages. Of the 385 centers established under the PNVA about
104 are presently not functional, as the trainers have left the village. Incentives are not provided to these trainers
in a systematic manner by the villages, but rather on a voluntary and informal basis. 11,200 villagers (22 percent
of these women) participated in alphabetization classes and 2,726 of these (of which 15 percent women) are now
classified as newly-alphabetized. The newly alphabetized received post-alphabetization training organized by
the National Directorate for Cooperatives (DNAFLA,Direction nationale de cooperation) and some NGOs in
management (cooperatives, Caisse rurale d 'epargne et de pret, cereals bank, mills, etc.).
18.   At the time of the mid-term review, it became apparent that functional literacy training was only
partially effective in strengthening OPs. Based on experience in other countries, the position of Farmer
Organization Specialist (SOP, Specialiste en Organisations Paysannes) was created and a new goal of
supporting 250 OPs was introduced. This objective was greatly exceeded as508 OPs in 465 villages were
supported by the end of the project, despite a lower number of SOPs 33 than anticipated. The SOPs need to be
retrained, however, to provilde broader capacity building support to OPs thus improving their viability. 2,660 of
the neo-alphabetized are members of GCs or leaders of OPs. Newly alphabetized carry out selected village tasks
related to vaccination ol poultry, climate statistics, commercialization of agricultural produce, field
measurements, management of cooperative savings and loans, etc. The PNVA provided specific training to
interested farmers in these areas.
D. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJoR ISSUEs AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
D.1.  Government
D.1.1. Under Government Control
19.   The two main issues under Government's control that affected project implementationwere: (i) the
constraint on hiring new agricultural staff that was agreed between Govemment and the IMF. The hiring freeze
prevented the project from hiring new staff to expand project activities or replace staff that had left through
attrition (retirement, transfer, etc.); and (ii) the restructuring of the MDRE in 1997, which brought many project
activities to a standstill as staff were demoralized and unsure whether they would be transferred or not, or be
fired.



7
D.1.2. Outside of Government Control
20.   The main issue outside of Govemment control that had a major impact on project implementation was
the Tuareg rebellion in the Northem part of the country, which prevented project activities from starting up in
this area until the peace agreement in 1995.
D.2.  Other
21.   Procurement. Procurement encountered serious delays because of heavy administrative procedures,
which lead to delayed start-up of the project and delays during project implementation.  Especially for
procurement of vehicles, motorcycles and equipment for which intemational competitive bidding procedures
needed to be followed, significant delays were recorded at the different review stages as many signatures and
clearances were needed from different Government agencies. In addition, long delays occurred earlier during
project implementation between the Bank giving its no-objection and the contracts being signed and executed.
These delays are endemic to the public procurement procedures. The PNVA also did not adopt standard bid
documents until 1997, after staff had received training in Dakar, Senegal. A large number of replacement
vehicles, motorcycles and computers, and gasoline were purchased towards the end of the project. The Bank
gave its no-objection to these contracts without proper verification of available fimds.7 As a result about CFAF
200 million (US$330,000 equivalent) remains owed to suppliers.
22.   Financial and Administrative Management. The coordinating unit of the PNVA has a satisfactory
financial management in place and during project implementation, the auditors did not identify specific
problems. Recommendations by the auditors for improved procedures were generally adhered to. Initially, sub-
accounts of the Special Account were opened in each of the regional capitals. The staff responsible for these
sub-accounts were, however, insufficiently trained and reconciliation of these accounts and the transfer of the
required documentation to Bamako was slow. This caused the Africa Disbursement Division to insist that the
sub-accounts be closed in 1994. After the closure, the regional coordinators had problems obtaining funds in a
timely manner for project operations (training, demonstration plots, field allowances, etc.), which caused delays
in project implementation. This issue will need to be resolved prior to launching a follow-on operation.
23.   Project Costs and Financing. Actual project costs are estimated at US$28.0 million versus an appraisal
estimate of US$27.1 million. The sole major discrepancy in the cost categories has been that for consultant
services which had been estimated at appraisal at US$0.9 million, while actual costs were almost US$4.0
million. This large increase was entirely caused by an underestimation of training costs at the time of appraisal
and was financed from underspending in other areas and exchange rate savings.
24.   Legal Covenants. All legal covenants were adhered to.
25.   Consulting Services.  In general, the quality of consulting services provided to the project was
satisfactory. The sole exception was the study on women participation (Table 7), which project staff judged
unsatisfactory.
26.   Access to Markets and Credit. Access to market (inputs and outputs) is becoming increasingly a
constraint to effective adoption of technical themes proposed by extension. Lack of medium-term credit, limited
7   Bank staff involved in the supervision of the project have stated that at the time of non-objection sufficient funds were
available and that the shortage was caused by exchange rate fluctuations. It was the view of the ICR mission that a
sufficient margin needs to be maintained when doing such procurement to prevent exactly such events.



8
access to short-ternm credit, valorization of production through transformation, conditioning, poor rural
infrastructure, etc., prevent farmers from adopting proven technologies (e.g. manure with phosphate) that require
investments with relatively long payback periods (more than one year) or modemizing their farm equipment.
The PNVA worked closely with SG2000 to address the lack of credit in pilot communities.
27.    Technology Generation.  The project was highly successful in disseminating a number of basic
technological messages. It; was, however, unable to set up a sustainable system for the generation of next-phase
technologies (para. 10 and 15). This issue will become a key constraint to the success of a follow-on operation.
Insufficient new technology generation under the PNVA was not due to a lack of funding, but a lack of trained
staff that could identify with farmers constraints and opportunities, and translate these into fundable research
protocols. At the present, there is considerable lagtime between the establishment of a research protocol and
approval by IER to commence the research because the protocols are not always of sufficient quality. Moreover,
there is insufficient emphasis on farming systems research and on the financial impact of proposed technologies.
E. SUSTAINABILITY
28.    The investments rnade under the project are partially sustainable. Sustainability of the investments
financed under the project was not an issue at the time of project preparation. It was expected to be the first
phase of a long-term program at the time of project design and sustainability issues were therefore not addressed.
On the institutional side, the project has put in place a more efficient extension organization that collaborates
closely with other partners and contributed significantly to human resources development. Despite the flaws
detailed before, there is an M&E system in place that needs only limited, but very targeted support. On the
financial side, the system is not sustainable. The present system still has too high a cost per GC member relative
to other extension projects in the region (about US$40 per year versus a norm of US$10-15) and that more
efficient means of increasing the diffusion of technologies need to be looked into (radio, theater, multi-media,
etc.). For the foreseeable ftuture, Government is not able to support extension services without outside support.
Fanners are also unable to significantly contribute to the functioning of extensionservices as their production is
not sufficiently market oriented to enable them a significant surplus. The proposed follow-on project, the
Agricultural Services and Fanner Organizations Support Project (PASAOP) is expected to further strengthen the
extension services by making them more responsive to farmers' needs and give the latter a greater say in the
programming and priority setting. It would also lay the foundation for increased financial participation of
farmers in the extension service. In order for this to be successfully done, several major bottlenecks will be
addressed by this new operation, such as a greater emphasis on improved rural social infrastructure, credit
(especially medium-term), and the development of markets for inputs and outputs.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
29.    Looked at from the perspective of Bank practice at the time of project preparation, project design
followed standard conventions and no innovative ideas were introduced. Appraisal was satisfactory with a
sound analysis of the sector. The SAR had, however, several deficiencies (para. 3), the most important being the
lack of quantitative objectives. Supervision was in general satisfactory, with regular supervision missions by
headquarters' staff and day-to-day management by a field based staff. Supervision was weak, however, in
certain technical areas such as monitoring and evaluation, the use of mass media and decentralization of financial
management. The mid-term review was satisfactory and identified several areas for strengthening (access of
women to extension services, access to credit, need to further strengthenOPs, etc.) that could only be partially
implemented because of the reorganization of the MDRE.



9
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
30.   The Borrower's performance at the stage of project preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. The
Borrower prepared the project, with the Bank's assistance, and theproject was appraised by the Bank together
with the Borrower in 1990/91. During project implementation, Government made adequate funds available in a
timely manner, with the exception of 1992. Project supervision was regularlv carried out bv a multi-disciplinarv
team (para. 11). In 1997, the restructuring of the MDRE negatively impacted on the project, as it created
uncertainty and demotivated staff. Regular project supervision was interrupted and field activities slowed down
markedly.
31.   National procurement procedures delayed procurement by up toa year in some instances. The adoption
of standard bid documents in 1997 improved this situation, but the main problem, which is the large number of
signatories required, has not yet been satisfactorily resolved.
H. IMPLEMENTING AGENCY PERFORMANCE
32.   The coordinating unit of the PNVA performed highly satisfactory. Supervision of the project was
regularly carried out and progress reports were regularly produced and of good quality. The team, together with
regional staff, successfully put in place close cooperation with other Government agencies, development projects
and NGOs, which is judged to be a key accomplishment of the project.
I. PROJECT OUTCOME
33.    The project's outcome is rated as satisfactory by the ICR mission," which is the same as the F590/PSR
rating.
34.    Two independent studies were executed to measure project impact. These studies were a beneficiary
assessment, which focused primarily on how the extension system functioned from the perspective of the
farmers, and a quantitative assessment which measured the production impact of the extension activities. Both
studies were carried out during the 1995/96 agricultural season, but results became available too late to be of use
during the last year of project implementation. In addition, the quantitative assessment tumed out to have been
based on a biased sample, which greatly limited its usefulness. The outcome of the beneficiary assessment was
generally positive, but underscored some of the limitations of the PNVA.
35.   No in-depth economic analysis was presented in the SAR. A broad cost-benefit analysis was presented
as an annex and several non-quantifiable benefits were listed in the main report. As part of the ICR mission an -
admittedly superficial - economic evaluation of the project was carried out based on the information available
from the M&E system and the quantitative assessment. The analysis is presented as an illustration of project
impact only. On the basis of the assumptions that are summarized in Table 9, Part II, the economic rate of return
of the project is estimated to be about 12-15 percent. An evaluation of the project at the farm level shows that
farm income increased markedly for farmers adopting technical themes. The most profitable of these were cattle
fattening, poultry vaccination, application of organic manure and treatment of seeds.
8   The rating is based on the standard rating system. Given some of the weaknesses of the project, a marginally
satisfactory rating would have been preferred.



10
J. FUTURE OPERATION
No plan was developed for the future operation of the investments financed by the IDA credit. A follow-up
operation is planned, but preparation has been delayed because of the need to properly address the issues
identified under the PNVA. This operation is not expected to be presented to the Board until late FY2000.
K. LESSONS LEARNED
The key lessons learned from this project are that in the Malian context:
(i)    An institutionalized system of close collaboration with other projects, agencies and NGOs can yield a
much greater impact than would be possible with a standard project. Despite the end of outside funding
to the PNVA, the system was still functional at the time of the ICR mission.
(ii)   There is a desire amongst farmers to assume responsibility for activities that were in the past carried out
by the extension services. A key example is poultry vaccination, that is highly profitable to farmers.
(iii)   The PNVA has been very successful in providing agricultural extension services in a centralized
environment. To increase the effectiveness of the second phase of the PNVA, which would amongst
other things require ani increased role of farmers andOPs in both decision making and financing of
services, it will be necessary to decentralize and effect the institutional reforms as proposed in the
PASAOP.
(iv)   Low cost technologies for which a favorable environment exists can easily be introduced. The adoption
of the next level of teclnologies will require, however, that priority needs are addressed at the farm level
at the same time, such as access to short - and medium-term credit, and markets.
(v)   Incentives need to be provided to alphabetization trainers in a systematic mannempfront and not in the
present ad hoc manner. This will prevent the most successful ones from leaving the village and also
provide incentives to the trainers to continue training new students.



11
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
(CREDIT 2235-MLI)
PART II: Statistical Information
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives                  Substantial      Partial     Negligible      Not applicable
Macro policies                                 LI                E            [Z
Sector policies                                   l             El            E                   E
Financial objectives                           [                 E           []                   []
Institutional development                       E7                                                  El
Physical objectives                                              El          [Z E1
Poverty reduction                                               [             E                    El
Gender issues                                   El              [I]            0                   0
Other social objectives                         E                El                               El
Environmental objectives                         n                            E                   El
Public sector management                                        EJ            E                   E
Private sector management                       E               E             E                   E
Other (specify)                                 E               E             E                      ]
B. Project sustainabilit                                                Unlikel              Uncertain
H-Tighly
C. Bank performance                             satisfactory          Satisfactory           Deficient
Identification                                      L                       l                     E



12
Highly
C. Bank performance                          satisfactory        Satisfactor           Deficient
Preparation assistance                           n                                     Dfic
Appraisal                                       G                   m                       
Supervision                                     0                   7]
Highly
D. Borrower performance                      satisfactory        Satisfactory          Deficient
Preparation                                     [ I7                                        
Implementation                                  K]                 2:1
Covenant compliance                              E]                                          K]
Operation (if appLicable)                        K                 [                       K
E. Assessment of outcome                     Highly                                      Highly
satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
K]  [E ]                      I                   ]
Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Loan/credit title                           Purpose                           Year of         Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Mali Sud II (Cr. 1415-  A combined sector adjustment/investment project to increase  1984  Closed
NELI)                      agricultural production and farm incomes by stabilizing and
increasing cotton production.
2. Mopti Area Development  Increasing crop production through improved flood control    1985  Closed
(Cr. 1597-NED)             cultivation of rice, and increasing the off-take from the
livestock herds and protecting pastre lands in the pastoral
arees.
3. Of fice du Niger (Cr. 1906-  Restructuring the Office du Niger and increasing farmer's  1988  Ongoing; closed
NELI)                      inccimes by increasing agricultural productivity.                   11/30/1998
4. Agriculturl Sector      A hybrid adjustment/investment operation. The adjustment   1990     Closed
Adjustnent/Investnent      reformns were aimed at further deepening liberalization
(Credit 2163-NL)           measures initiated in 1988 and reforms in the cotton sector,
the investnent component aimed at strengthening the
expected supply response in the Mali-Sud region.
Folowing operations
1. Natural Resources       To introduce a rational land use system which will halt, and    1992  Ongoing; closing
Managemnent (Cr. 2370-     then reverse the process of degradation of the natural              6/30/2000
MUL1)                      resource base.



13
2. National Agricultural   Improving the performance of the national agricultural  1993       Ongoing; closing
Research Project (Cr. 2557-   research system, by improving research coherence, quality,      12/31/2001
MLI)                       relevance, and accountability for results.
3. Agroprocessing (Cr.     Addressing key sector constraints to private investment in  1995   Ongoing; closing
2737-MLI)                  agricultural processing and marketing, and focus primarily         6/30/2001
on capacity-building and on the transfer of know-how to the
private sector through infornation networks, training,
specialized TA, and study tours.
4. Pilot Prvate Irrigation  Improving and inducing an expansion of investments in  1997       Ongoing; closing
Promotion(N021 MLI)        small-scale irnigation, which would contribute to increased         12/31/2001
on-farm diversification of investments, productivity, and
food security.
Table 3:: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle    I            Date planned             [ Date actual/latest estimate
Identification (Executive                                            03/10/1987
Project Summary)
Preparation                                                          03/1987 - 04/1990
Appraisal                                                            05/18/1990
Negotiations                                                         01/28/1991
Letter of development                                                N.A.
policy (if applicable)
Board presentation                                                   05/02/1991
Signing                                                              05/31/1991
Effectiveness                     08/29/1991                         11/27/1991
Project completion                03/31/1995                         06/30/19989
Credit closing                    09/30/1995                         06/30/1998
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY92 FY93 FY94 FY95 FY96 FY97 FY98 FY99
Appraisal estimate          7.5     13.2     18.6    23.8    24.4         24.4    24.4    24.4
Revised                     2.5      6.8      9.1     12.7    16.4        23.9    24.5    24.5
Actual                      2.4      6.8      9.0     12.6    16.4        21.1      25.3    26.0
Actual as %  of           32        52       48       53        67       86       104       107
estimate
Date of Last              September 1, 1998
Disbursement
9    Estimated completion date, formal completion date was not revised



14
Tablle 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 5A: Staffing
Planned                         Actual
1991/92    1995/96      1992/93      1995/96       1997/98
AVB                 499        915          451          621           689
SD                  124        183          105          124           137
TS                   66         68           89          116           113
SOP                n.a.        n.a.           0           30            33
Local                44         50           33           42            43
Coordinators
Regional             13         13            0            6             7
Coordinators
Enqueteurs           79        115           86           80           103
Table SB: Extension Ratios
1991/92  1992/93  1993/94  1994/95  1995/96  1997/98   Norm
Villages per AVB          4        5         5        6        6         6      6-8
Farm per AVB            n.a.     394       330      346      514       475      500
GC per AVB               19       26        30       17       19        17    16-24
PMGC per AVB            380      309      299       174      211       185     160-
240
GC members               20       12        10       10        11       11       10
AVB per TS               18        5         6       18        18       18    20-30
(agriculture)
AVB per SD                4        4       4.5        5         5        5      6-8
PD per AVB                0       20        38       30       46        72      n.a.
SD per SS                 0      2.5         3        4        3         3      4-6
Villages per SOP          0        0         0        0        15       19    20-30
AVB per enqueteur         4        5         6        7        6         7        8
Enqueteur per             4        4         3        4        4         4      4-5
controller



15
Table 5C: Regional Coverage
Planned                       Actual
(1995/96)
Region           Number of      of which      Number of       of which
Villages    direct service   Villages    direct service
Kayes              1,328           797           1,291          743
Koulikoro           829            711           1,226          947
Segou               779            470           889            885
Mopti              2,019           272           2,047          1,241
Tombouctou          203            129            984           360
Gao                 173            104           338            178
Other               n.a.           n.a.          211            104
5,331         3,483          6,775          4,345
Table 5D: Training
l_________________________ 1992/93   1993/94   1994/95   1995/96   1996/97   1997/98
Fortnightly training         255      243       283       920       902       806
Monthly Technical Review     56        47        52        88       76        47
Workshop (AMRT)
Specific Training             7        32        37       189       180       140
Table SE: Alphabetization
Planned                  Actual
Centers                            400            385 established, 281 active
Enlisted                 not defined in SAR                7,760
Newly Alphabetized       not defined in SAR                2,276
Post Alphabetization     not defined in SAR         508 village associations
Training                _                         (1,519 newly alphabetized)
Table SF: Support to Farmers' Organizations
Planned                  Actual
Farmer Organization             not planned                   33
Specialists
Farmers' Organizations             n.a.                      508
Of which women                  n.a.                      248
OP/SOP                   _                                 13-30



16
Table 5G: Adoption Rate of Main Extension Themes
(adopting farmer members of GCs/surface in percent)
Kayes
Technical Theme          1993/94  1994/95  1995/96  1996/97  1997/98
Organic manure           24/24    15/7      57/46
Thinning to 3 plants (millet)  21/22                          59/74
Density                           28/22    43/29              59/n.a.
Cultural Care (sorglhum)          39/27    54/39              42/n.a.
Seed treatment (millet)           9/6      41/28    23/23    28/19
Seed treatment (sorg,hum)                                     26/34
Intemal/extemal anti-    18/n.a.            26/67    22/31    29/n.a.
parasitic treatment
Straw with urea                             8/n.a.    13/n.a.
Anti-erosive Measures    13/n.a.
Tree care                                            53
Vegetable nurseries                                  35/60    10/n.a.
j Poultry vaccination                                 16/40    28/58
Koulikoro
Technical Theme          1993/94  1994/95  1995/96  1996/97  1997/98
Organic manure (millet)    69/27    24/24    46/55    67/19    70/38
Plant care                        33/59    49/33    69/64    64/54
Seed treatment                             35/n.a.   52/36    53/18
Seed density             50/22    31/23    42/23    44/19    59/n.a.
Intermal/external anti-                     41/n.a.   49/n.a.   52/n.a.
parasitic treatment
Straw with urea                             32/n.a.           21/13
Tree care                                   16/n.a.   41/29    42/n.a.
Vegetable nurseries                         80/n.a.   44/59    64/n.a.
Poultry vaccination                         40/n.a.   76/60    56/49
Fodder Crops                                         37/n.a.   32/n.a.



17
Sigou
Technical Theme           1993/94   1994/95   1995/96   1996/97   1997/98
Organic manure                     23/20     54/23     59/26    45/17
Plant care                         60/33     42/92     48/34    38/10
Seed treatment                               25/15     14/4
Improved seed                                34/9      44/12    51/10
Internal/external parasitic                  48/37    48/37    76/40
treatment
Straw with Urea                              14/n.a.   10/n.a.   5/14
Tree care                                              71/47    25/36
Vegetable nurseries                          80/n. a.   44/59   64/n. a.
Poultry vaccination                          48/11
Fodder Crops                                           27/3
Mopti
Technical Theme           1993/94   1994/95   1995/96   1996/97   1997/98
Organic manure (millet)   61/14                        75/82
Plant care (millet)                71/n.a.   78/33     75/42    75/n.a.
Plant care (rice)                                      68/58
Seed treatment                               44/15     46/25    49/49
Seed density (millet)     63/11    n.a./44             79/32
Internal/external parasitic    62/n.a.   49/n.a.   38/n. a.   54/45  43/n.a.
treatment
Straw with Urea           42/n.a.                      I 8/n.a.
Tree planting                                48/n.a.   52/n.a.   63/n.a.
Natural vegetative cover           23/n.a.   65/n.a.   62/n.a.
regeneration
Anti-erosion measures     79/n.a.                      70/n.a.
Poultry vaccination                          56/n.a.   53/40    60/n.a.
Fodder Crops                                 34/n.a.   60/n.a.   50/n.a.



18
Table 5H: Project Impact Data
With and Without Project Yields - Main Crops
(demonstration versus control in kg/ha)
=_____ _  94/95            95/96               96/97
Millet_
Control                     640                 610                 680
Demonstration               960                 780                1,000
Sorghum
Control                     860                 770                  820
Demonstration              1,000               1,190               1,066
Corn_
Control                     845                 885                 862
Demonstration              1,183                974                1,292
Rice_
Control                    2,680               2,750               2,830
Demonstration              3,370               3,340               3,170
Niebe
Control                     520                 440                 420
Demonstration               760                 760                  550
Tomatoes
Control                   26,500              11,400              13,400
Demonstration             32,300              18,000              21,200
Onions
Control                   16,690              13,430              13,930
Demonstration             19,920              19,230              23,550
Shallots
Control                   20,980              21,350              18,980
Demonstration             13,860              25,770              24,940
Potatoes
Control                   15,770              12,690              16,040
Demonstration             17,460              16,160              20,340
Peanuts
Control                     760                 690                  510
Demonstration              1,090                980                 630



19
Table 51: Area under Improved Technology
(in hectares)
Crops                             1994/95             1995/96              1996/97
Millet                            177,448              181,506             261,664
Sorghum                            30,636              31,650               41,846
Rice                                7,536               6,583               15,446
Com                                 6,682               7,254                8,771
Peanuts                            15,373               3,957               25,864
Niebe                               2,729                7,270               9,845
Potatoes                              46                  157                   36
Tomatoes                              159                 207                  313
Shallots                             719                2,725                9,155
Onions                                13                   82                   56
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Key operating indicators in the President's Report  Estimated        Actual
None had been defined in the Staff Appraisal Report.
The project had been presented as the first phase of a                          l
long-term program.



20
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                 Purpose as defined at        Status           Impact of Study
aippraisal/ redefined
1. Acces des femmes   Nor defined          Completed in 1994     Only minor impact as
aux services agricoles                                           report did not respond
to its terms of
reference. A seminar
was organized to
discuss the subject
without using the
report.
2. Test de credit    Not defined           Completed in 1995     Used as input into the
agricole                                                         preparation of the
micro finance
component of the
Financial Sector
Support Project
3.Evaluation du PNVA   Not defined         Started in 1995,      Used to evaluate the
par les beneficiaires                      completed in 1996     functioning of contact
groups, the
applicability of
technical themes and
the relationship
between the AVB and
the farmers (CG and
others)
4.Evaluation         Nol: defined          Started in 1995,      Used to evaluate the
quantitative de la                         completed in 1996     impact on crops, it
vulgarisation agricole                                           showed that the PNVA
had a positive impact.
This was not
internalized as a
management tool.
5. Rapport de la     Not defined            1997                 Served as basis for
mission d'evaluation                                             action plan for project
interne, 1 i phase                                               implementation
(1992-1996)                                                      following the extension
.____________________ .___________-__________.__________.____ of the closing dates.



21
Table 8: Project Costs and Financing
Table 8A: Project Costs
Item                  Appraisal estimate  Revised Estimate    Actual/latest
(US$ '000)        (US$ '000)          estimate
(US$_'000)
1. Civil Works               800.0                                417.2
2. Vehicles                 6,000.0                              6,428.0
3. Equipment                2,000.0                              1,310.3
4. Consultant Services,      900.0                               3,957.6
Studies and Training                                                        I
5. Operating Costs         16,100.0                             14,530.3
6. PPF                      1,500.0                              1,343.4
TOTAL                      27,100.0                             27,986.8
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate   Revised Estimate     Actual/latest
Source                   (US$ million)       (US$ million)         Estimate
(11S$ million)
IDA                          24.4                                  26,007.0
Government                    2.7                                   1,979.8
TOTAL                        27.1                                  27,986.8
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No economic analysis was done as part of project preparation or appraisal, and insufficient data were
presented in the Staff Appraisal Report to present a comparative analysis. Moreover, during project
implementation, no farm level cost data were collected by the Monitoring and Evaluation Service.
The ICR mission collected some basic information in order to present an economic evaluation of the
project. Given the great uncertainty and the lack of baseline date, this evaluation is only intended to
serve as an illustration of project impact. The economic rate of return is estimated to range between
10 and 15 percent. The assumptions are presented below.
(a)   Incremental on-farm labor is evaluated at a cost of CFAF 600 per day
(b)   Incremental production is defined as the difference between production without
technologies introduced by the project and production on adoption plots



22
(c)   Incremental production is valued at the farmgate price, an economic price is used when
possible (e.g. rice)
(d)    Diffusion rates are expected to increase over time for certain basic low-cost
technologies.
(e)    The analysis is capped at 15 years and benefits of the project are expected to gradually
decline after 10 years.



23
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Credit Agreement   Covenant  Current                              Description of covenant                                     Comments
secdon (C22350)    type      status                                                                                                              l
Credit
Section 3.01        5, 10        C      The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in
Sch.2 to this Agrmt &, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MA, MEN, & MEE
w/ due diligence & efficiency & in conformity w/appropriate admin, fin. & agr. pract.&
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services & other resources
required for the Project.
No comments.
Section 3.02         5, 3        C      Except as the Assoc. shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and consult. No comments.
services require for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Sch. 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03 (a)    5, 10        C      The Borrower & the Assoc. shall, from time to time & in any case not later than 6/30 in
each year the Project is being executed, starting with 6/30/92, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Project.                                                            l
Section 3.03        5, 10        C      (b) Prior to any such exchange of views as specified in para (a) of this Section & not later
(b)(i)(ii)                             than 3/31 of each yr, the Borrower shall furnish a work program satisfactory to the
Assoc. incl. the following: (i)a project performance review for the previous year of
Project implementation; (ii) details of actions to carry out during the following agric.
season including provisions relating to staffng & training.
Section             5, 10        C      (b)(iii) detailed investment & operating budgets broken down by component; (iv) a
3.03(b)(iii)(iv)(v)                     fnancing plan indic. the funding for the investment & operating budgets referred to in
para. (iii) above; and (v) monitoring & evaluating objectives for the following agric.
season.
Section 3.03 (c)    5, 10        C      During the exchange of views to take place not later than 6/30/93 pursuant to para. (a) of
this Section, the Borrower & and Assoc. shall also discuss a comprehensive proposal for
the implementation of the Project.
Section 3.04          10         C      In order to ensure the carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall establish & maintain
for duration of Project execution & in a manner satisfactory to the Assoc: (a) a Tech.
Coordinating Committee to ensure the overall coordination of the Project, to be
composed of: (i) Dir. of DNA; (ii) Dir. of DNE; (iii) Dir. of DNEF;(iv)Dir. Gen. of LER;
__________    ______  _____ & (v) Dir. of DNAFLA;
Section 3.04 (b)    5, 10        C      (b) a Project monitoring & evaluating system, including (i) the organ. & staffing of a  M & E unit is collecting too



(c)                                        monitoring unit wiin DNA; (ii) the organ. & staffing of regional monitoring units; (iii) a   much information and
list of the aspects of Project activity to be monitored & evaluated; (iv)the frequency of    carrying out too little analysis.
monitoring; & (v) the system of feedback into exten. prac.; & (c) a Project Acct. Unit &
related acct. system & procedures.
Section 4.01 (a)       1, 5        C       (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records & accts. adequate to
(b)                                        reflect in accord. w/ sound accounting practices the operations, resources & expenditures
in respect of the Project of the depts. or agencies of the Borrower respon. for carrying out
the Project or any part thereof. (b) The Borrower shall:
Section 4.01 (b)      1, 10        C       (i) have the records & accounts referred to in para.(a) of this Section incl those for the
(i)                                        Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance w/appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Assoc;
Section 4.01 (b)       1C                 (ii) firnish to the Assoc., as soon as available, but in any case not later than 6 months
(ii) (iii)                                 after the end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope & in such detail as the Assoc. shall have reasonably requested &
(iii) furn. to Assoc. such other. info. concerning said records, accts. & audit thereof as
Assoc. shall for time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.01 (c) (i   5, 10        C       (c) For all expend. w/respect to which w/drawals from the Cr. Acct. were made on the
basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to be
maintained, in accord. w/para (a) of this Section, records & accts. reflecting such                               Z
expenditures;
Section 4.01 (c)       1, 5        C       (ii) retain, until at least 1 yr after the Assoc. has rec. the audit report for the fiscal year in
(ii) (iii                                  which the last w/drawal from the Cr. Acct. or payment out of the Spec. Acct. was made,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts & other doc.) evidencing such
expenditures; (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; &
Section 4.01 (c)      1, 10        C       (iv) ensure that such records & accts. are incl. in the annual audit referred to in para. (b)
(iv)                                       of this Section & that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal yr, together
w/the procedures &internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
l_____- supp. the related w/drawals.
Covenant types:                                                    Present status:
I = Accounts/audits              8  =  Indigenous people
2 = Financial perfornancel revenue   9  =  Monitoring, review, and  C  = covenant complied with
generation from beneficiaries      reporting



3 = Flow and utilization ofproject    10 =  Project implementation not    CD = complied with after delay
funds                                 covered by categories 1-9
4 = Counterpart funding            11 =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral    CP    complied with partially
budgetary or other resource
allocation
5 = Management aspects of the      12 =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral    NC    not complied with
project or executing agency           policy/ regulatory/
institutional action
6 = Environmental covenants        13 =  Other
7 = Involuntary resettlement
I-n



26
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Indicate any significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual
statement (OD or OP/BP):
I Statement number and titlIe                   Describe and comment on lack of compliance
All relevant manual statements were adhered
to.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs'"
Stage of
project cycle
Weeks         USS         Weeks         USS          Weeks      USS ('000)
Prepartion up                                                         122.5        238.4
to Appraisal                             _ .
Appraisal                                                              55.4         129.1
From Appraisal                                                         35.2          84.9
to Board                  l
Supervision               l                                           270.0        450.1
Completion    I      =     _                          _                14.0         25.0
TOTAL                                                                 497.1        927.5
10  No complete information is available on the planned or revised number of staffweeks and associated budgets.



27
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of project   Month/yea   Number of   Days in  Specialized staff   Impleme    Develop-  Types of
cycle           r           persons         field   skills represented    ntation  ment    problems
status    objectives
Through
appraisal
Board approval
thrugh
effectiveness
Supervision 1   02/91       3             N.A.      AS (3)            1          1 l
Supervision2    10/91       4             6         AS (3), RAA       NR         NR         NR
Supervision 3   03/92       3             N.A.      AS (3)            1          1         1
Supervision 4   09/92       3             N.A.      AS (3)            1          1          P, CF
Supervision 5   08/93       3             6         AS (2), RAA       2          1          P
Supervision611   04/94      92                      AS (4)            2          1          P
Supervision 7   12/94       2              12       AS, DC            NR         NR         NR
Supervision 8   06/95       2              199      AS, F             S          HS         P
Supervision 9   06/96        1             1213     AS                S          HS         P
Supervision 10    12/96     5             NA.       AS (3), Soc., 00    S        HS         P
Supervision 11    01/97      1              8       TS                NR         NR         NR
Supervision 12    04/97     2              10       AS, TS            NR         NR         NR
Supervision 13    01/98     5             N.A.      AS (4), 00        S          S          P
Completion      11/98       4              10       AS (3), OA        S          S          M&E, P
Specialized skiHs: AS = Agricultural Services Specialist; DC = Division Chief; E = Economist; F = Financial
Analyst; OA = Operations Analyst; 00 = Operations Officer, RAS = Regional Agricultural Services Advisor, Soc.
= Sociologist; and TS = Training Specialist
Types of problems: TS = Turnover of staff; AS = Implementing Agency Staffing; P = Procurement; DC = Donors
Coordination; RR = Resident Representative; CT: Counterpart Funding; FM = Financial Management;
Mid-Term Review Mission
12  This includes five project managers from neighboring countries.
13 This mission supervised related projects, it is not clear how much time was spent on each project individually.



28
Annex I
AIDE MEMOIRE OF ICR MISSION
BANQUE MONDIALE
MISSION DE RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU PNVA
(du 26 Octobre au 13 novembre 1998)
La mission du rapport d'achevement du Programme National de vulgarisation Agricole (PNVA)
a eu lieu du 26 Octobre au 13 Novembre 1998 au Mali. La mission etait composee de M.
Abdoulaye Tour6, Specialiste des services agricoles a la Mission Residente  de la Banque
Mondiale A Abidjan, Dirk Nicolaas Prevoo, Analyste financier au siege de la Banque Mondiale A
Washington, Willem Zijp, Specialiste principal des services agricoles au siege de la Banque
Mondiale a Washington, Agadiou Dama, Specialiste des services agricoles a la Mission
Residente de la Banque Mondiale a Bamako, et Adama Keita, Agro-economiste A la Cellule de
Planification et des Stati;stiques au Ministere du Developpement Rural et de l'Eau ( CPS du
MDRE), Aliou Coulibaly, Direction National du Plan ( MPEI), Tidiani Diarra, Coordinateur
National du PNVA a la Direction Nationale de l'Appui au Monde Rural ( DNAMR) et des
sp6cialistes au siege du PNVA. La mission a eu un entretien avec l'equipe Malienne A l'issue
duquel un calendrier de visite de terrain a ete 6labore. La mission a effectue des visites de terrain
dans trois des huit r6gions couvertes par le PNVA A savoir les regions de Koulikoro, Segou et
Mopti. La mission a eu lors de la tournee sur le terrain des discussions avec l'Administration (
Gouverneurs, Conseiller au Developpement), le personnel du PNVA ( Comite Regional de
Coordination, Superviseurs et Specialistes, TS, SOP et AVB) des paysans et organisations
paysannes (AV), des partenaires ( prives, chambre d'agriculture, projets et ONGs) et a pu visiter
plusieurs realisations du PNVA et de la recherche agricole. La mission a dgalement eu des
seances de travail avec p]usieurs institutions nationales partenaires du PNVA. Les conclusions
aux quelles ont abouti les discussions sont exposees ci-dessous.
La mission tient a remercier les membres de l1'quipe interministerielle du rapport d'achevement
du PNVA, les cadres du PNVA, les autorites administratives des regions visitees, les partenaires
et les paysans visit6s avec lesquels, elle a eu des entretiens fructueux, sans lesquels cette mission
n'aurait it6 un succes. Elle remercie egalement M. Mamadou Goita Secretaire General MDRE,
M. Arnadou Kone, Directeur de la CPS, M. Amadou B. Tour6 chef du Projet et Tidiani Diarra
Coordinateur National du Proj et.
La mission a pu constater sur le terrain les resultats tres importants que le PNVA a permis
d'obtenir et qui sont perceptibles A travers les e1lments suivants: i) I'existence de services de
vulgarisation efficaces danLs les zones ou la vulgarisation etait inexistante et le renforcement des
services de vulgarisation d ans les programmes appuyes par le PNVA tels que l'Office du Niger,
l'Office Riz de Segou, l'Office Riz de Mopti.., ii) l'existence de resultats techniques reels sur le
terrain qui sont visibles dans l'accroissement notable des rendements et des revenus que nous
avons pu estimer dans les villages visites, iii) une participation effective des agriculteurs et leur
satisfaction vis a vis des services apportes par le PNVA, iv) le r6le de leadership joue par le
PNVA qui a su developper les synergies dans les interventions des differents services et acteurs y



29
compris les ONG et projets et qui a su interesse les autorites administratives et la commission
developpement rurale de l'Assemblee Nationale A ses activites.
La mission a examine de fa,on plus detaillee les differentes composantes et a pu identifier les
aspects positifs et les succes du projet mais egalement les le,ons et les ameliorations A apporter.
Le diagnostic: La methodologie developpee a prevu que le diagnostic serait menee a la base par
les ABV, appuyes par une equipe pluridisciplinaire composee de techniciens specialisees et de
chercheurs. Mais l'equipe pluridisciplinaire n'a pas bien fonctionne de sorte que le diagnostic a
ete fait par les AVB qui n'ont pas les competences appropriees pour cette activite qui est a la base
de la planification des activites de vulgarisation et de recherche developpement. Le processus de
hierarchisation des contraintes et de planification des themes a traiter se fait du niveau village,
arrondissement, cercle, region puis au plan national. Certes des representants de paysans
participent dans les instances de bilan et programmation locales, regionales et nationales. Mais
ce processus est tres long et la representativite des paysans ne garantie pas la qualite et la
pertinence des priorites retenues.
Ces faiblesse pourront etre resolues par l'adoption de l'approche participative villageoise qui est
appliquee par le PGRN dans plus de 337 villages concemes par la collaboration PNVA- PGRN.
Avec cette approche les priorites du village sont inscrites dans un plan d'action villageois
comprenant le programme de vulgarisation du village lequel est evalue annuellement.
La gestion de la vulgarisation: La mission a apprecie la qualite de la strategie de supervision
dont la mise en ceuvre a ete perturbee A partir de 1997 par le processus de reorganisation du
Ministere du Developpement rurale et de l'Eau (MDRE). En effet il existe au niveau national et
regional des comites de coordination et des equipes de supervision composees respectivement des
Directeurs et des Techniciens des differentes institutions impliquees dans le PNVA. Ces equipes
font des visites r6guli&res planifiees pour appuyer la mise en auvre du programme sur le terrain.
La revue a mi parcours a ete de bonne qualite. II faut souligner la participation positive des chefs
de projets de 4 pays de la sous region qui a permis le partage d'experience. NManmoins la revue a
mi parcours n'a pas eu le reflexe d'identifier la faiblesse du rapport d'evaluation en ce qui
concerne le manque d'indicateurs de mesures d'impact (production et revenus) et de corriger
cette lacune. Certaines specificites telles que l'elevage et la promotion des filieres porteuses au
niveau locale n'ont pas ete bien etudiees et approfondies par le PNVA.
Utilisation des media: Les radios de proximite ont ete le plus utilisees par le projet A travers les
plages reserv6es pour les emissions de developpement rural et dont le financement a ete assure
par le programme. Mais cette integration des media dans la strategie de vulgarisation a ete
nettement insuffisante. Ce qui va etre corrige par le plan de communication en milieu rural en
cours d'elaboration.



30
La responsabilisation des paysans: Ils demeurent toujours dependant des services de
vulgarisation. Cela est visible dans les villages de collaboration PGRN/PNVA oui les comites de
gestion ont 6te mis en place mais attendent tout du projet
L'appui aux organisations paysannes : L'appui n'a pas ete suffisamment pris en compte dans
le projet car seul l'alphab6tisation etait identifiee comme appui aux OPA. La revue a mi parcours
a cherche A corriger cette faiblesse en mettant en place des SOP. Mais ceux-ci sont en nombre
insuffisants et n'arriveni: pas a traiter les problemes poses par les OPA en dehors de la
structuration, de l'appui a la tenue des documents et la formation en gestion.
Alphabetisation fonctionnelle: Les resultats quantitatifs ont ete atteints et nous avons note sa
bonne appreciation par les populations. Mais deux points critiques: i) motivation des animateurs
dont la deperdition est de 1/4- ii) valorisation de l'alphab6tisation a travers la gestion de la post
alphabetisation (voir l'experience du Niger et de I'OHVN).
L'exploitation de la capiacit6 locale des neo-alphabetes par la mise a leur disposition de
documentation approprie (presse villageoise, bibliotheque villageoise, fiches techniques de la
vulgarisation sur les noucvelles technologies).
Le suivi - evaluation : Nous avons constate l'existence: du bilan annuel regulierement transmis
a la banque, des donnees statistiques sur le fonctionnement du dispositif et des donnees de base,
des taux de participation et d'adoption. Nous avons note le manque d'une methodologie de
mesure d'impact, de pertinence de certains indicateurs saisies et informations collectees. Le cout
d'intervention du suivi evaluation est assez eleve a cause du dispositif assez lourd (125 agents
soit 10%). Le projet n'avait pas d'indicateurs d'evaluation en outre il ne disposait pas
d'indicateurs de reference.
Recherche participative: Le processus est trop long et trop classique, 1'evaluation economique
des technologies est faible. Les CRU permettent d'impliquer les paysans a la programmation des
activites de recherche mais ceci doit etre ameliore par la participation de la vulgarisation. La
faible participation des paysans dans la generation des technologies, la rigidite de la planification
qui ne permettent pas de prendre en compte les problemes nouveaux. Le fonds des utilisateurs
des r6sultats de recherche n'a pas fonctionne a cause du processus d'adoption de leurs projets et
de la centralisation de la gestion.
Points critiques sont:
- Responsabilisation des paysans et la cogestion des services agricoles.
- Vision a long terme des services Agricoles
- Analyse d'impact des services Agricoles.



31
Annex II
PROJECT EVALUATION BY BORROWER
INTRODUCTION
Au terme de l'execution du Programme National de Vulgarisation Agricole (PNVA) mis en
ceuvre par le gouvemement a travers le ministere du Developpement Rural et de l'Eau avec
I'appui technique et financier de la Banque Mondiale, et conformement aux dispositions relatives
a la presentation d'un rapport d'achevement dudit programme par chacune des parties (le Mali et
la Banque Mondiale), la partie malienne propose les conclusions suivantes.
1. CONTEXTE DE MISE EN OEUVRE DU PROGRAMME
Face a la secheresse persistante, notamment celle des annees 1973 et 1984, et suite a un
diagnostic du systeme d'encadrement des services agricoles, le Gouvernement de la Republique
du Mali avec l'appui de la Banque Mondiale, a initie une nouvelle approche de vulgarisation
agricole qui s'est traduite en programme denomm6 Programme National de Vulgarisation
Agricole apres une phase test de trois ans (1988-1991).
Cette approche se place egalement dans le cadre du programme d'Ajustement Structurel (PAS) en
vue de renforcer les services agricoles.
Objectifs et duree du programme:
Objectifs:
L'objectif principal du PNVA est l'amelioration des revenus des paysans et l'augmentation de la
production. Le programme doit:
-  renforcer l'efficacitb des services de vulgarisation aux niveaux local, regional et
national;
-  realiser les activites de vulgarisation agricole par la formation continue et reguliere a
tous les niveaux ( producteurs et personnel d'encadrement);
-  renforcer les liens recherche/ vulgarisation / exploitation agricole;
-  appuyer les organisations villageoises par:
l'execution d'un programne d'alphabetisation fonctionnelle adequat;
l Ia formation en gestion des responsables d'OP;
-  favoriser la participation de plus en plus active des femmes aux activites de
developpement rural;
-  assurer l'integration des activites d'agriculture, d'elevage et de foresterie pour une
meilleure prbservation de l'environnement.
Durk:
Le credit a couvert une phase test allant de 1988/1989 a 1990/19991 et une premiere phase
quadriennale de 1992 a 1995 et une prolongation de 1996 a 1998. II a ete clos le 30 juin 1998
apres deux prorogations.



3 2
2. ZONE DU PROGRAMME
Le programme couvre l'ensemble du territoire national excepte les zones d'intervention de la
CMIT. A l'issue de la premiere phase le programme devrait couvrir 60% de terres cultivables du
pays et toucher 450.000 familles rurales.
3. CONCEPTIONS INITIALES ET EFFETS ATTENDUS DU PROGRAMME
Les autorit6s maliennes par la mise en ceuvre de ce programme visent a:
- assurer l'autosuffisance alimentaire et la securite alimentaire A une population en
pleine expansion grace a l'augmentation de la production et de la productivite par le
biais des transferts de technologies appropriees;
-  procurer aux populations de meilleures conditions de vie par une croissance soutenue
de leurs revenus;
-  preserver l'equilibres agro-sylvo-pastoral par la protection de l'environnement dans un
pays situe en zone sahelienne.
C'est ainsi que le programme s'inscrit dans le cadre de la politique de d6veloppement agricole du
gouvernement qui s'articule notamment autour du desengagement de l'Etat et de la
responsabilisation des promoteurs acteurs du developpement rural, du d6veloppement durable et
gestion des ressources naturelles, de la promotion des activites en faveur des groupes fragiles
(femmes, jeunes ruraux).
3.1 Composantes
Pour realiser l'objectif principal defini, le programme a ete realise A travers cinq composantes.
Composante 1: Vulgarisation Agricole
La vulgarisation agricole au Mali qui est une adaptation du systeme " Formation et Visite" est
basee sur entre autres les principes suivants:
-  l'int6gration des activites menees par les agriculteurs au niveau de l'exploitation;
-  le maintien d'un. seul interlocuteur aupres des paysans pour la diffusion des themes;
-  la separation des fonctions de vulgarisation (appui - conseil) de celles du credit, des
approvisionnements, de l'inspection ou du contr6le, de la sante animale et des taches
administratives.
-  la formation reguliere de tous les agents en vue de developper un professionnalisme;
-  le resserrement des liens entre recherche, vulgarisation et exploitations agricoles.
-  Vacc6s des femmrles aux services agricoles.
Composante 2: Liaison Rtecherche - Vulgarisation - Exploitation Agricole
La composante repose essentiellement sur le developpement du partenariat entre la Recherche,
les services de vulgarisation et les beneficiaires des technologies generees. Le maintien et le
renforcement de ce lien necessitent des activites qui demandent la participation de tous les
intervenants.



33
Les activites portent en particulier sur le diagnostic conjoint, les tests en milieu paysan,
l'animation des ateliers mensuels de revue de technologies, les supervisions conjointes
(vulgarisateurs et chercheurs) des realisations en milieu paysan.
Composante 3: Formation, Communication, Alphabetisation et Organisations
paysannes
La formation continue des agents du PNVA et des producteurs est realisee a travers les
principales activites suivantes:
-  les Ateliers Mensuels de Revue de Technologies ( AMRT);
-  les Formations de Quinzaines (FQ);
-  les Formations Specifiques (FS);
-  les visites d'echange et d'experience;
-  les voyages d'etude;
-  l'alphabetisation fonctionnelle;
-  la formation en gestion des organisations paysannes (hommes et femmes).
Un accent particulier est mis sur l'amelioration de l'acces des femmes aux services agricoles pour
leurs permettre une plus grande participation aux activites rurales.
Le programme utilise au niveau national la radio et la television et aux niveaux regional et local
les radios de proximite pour accroitre l'efftcacite de la vulgarisation a l'aide des medias.
Composante 4: Suivi - Evaluation
Le Suivi - evaluation en sa qualite de systeme d'informTation, de gestion, apparait comme un outil
de pilotage du programme.
La composante a retenu prioritairement les objectifs suivants:
-  mesurer les performances de la vulgarisation agricole et la liaison recherche
vulgarisation;
-  mesurer l'utilisation des services et recommandations par les paysans;
-  mesurer la satisfaction des groupes cibles a travers des indicateurs cles: taux de
participation aux demonstrations des AVB, taux d'adoption des themes;
-  contribuer de facon effective a augmenter l'efficacite de la vulgarisation;
-  aider a la prise de decision en foumissant aux decideurs les elements d'analyse dont ils
ont besoin en temps opportun.
Composante 5: Finances
Le programme a ete finance conjointement par le budget d'investissement et d'equipement du
Mali pour un montant initial de 690 000 000 FCFA et un cr6dit de 18 000 000 de DTS de
l'Association Internationale pour le Developpement (IDA) filiale de la Banque Mondiale, dans le
cadre de l'accord de credit n 2235/MLI conclu le 31 mai 1991.



34
3.2. Ancrage Institutionnel et Pilotage du Programme
Le Ministere en charge du Developpement Rural a la responsabilite de la mise en ceuvre du
programme.
On note toutefois que plusieurs departements sont impliques dans son execution. II s'agit de:
-  Ministere de lEducation de Base a travers la Direction Nationale de I'Alphabetisation
Fonctionnelle et de la Linguistique Appliquee (DNAFLA), en ce qui conceme la
composante alp:habetisation fonctionnelle;
-  Ministere des Finances A travers la Direction Nationale du Budget et la Direction
Generale des Marches Publics, pour ce qui est respectivement de la contre partie
financi6re de l'Etat et de la passation des marches,
-  Ministere de l'Economie du Plan et de l'Integration, A travers la Direction Nationale de la
Planification en ce qui concerne la programmation financiere.
Le Programme est organiis6 autour de trois grandes structures:
- la structure de pilotage;
- la structure de gestion;
- la structure d'execution.
a) Structure de Pilotage: il s'agit du Comite National de Coordination (CNC) qui est compose du
Secr6taire General du MDRE - President -, des Directeurs de la DNAMR, de la DNAER, de
1'IER, de la DNAFLA.
Le CNC examine les rapports de supervision, approuve les programmes et les budgets annuels et
oriente le programme.
b) Structures de gestion._ elles comprennent
* Niveau national:
- la Direction Nationale de l'Agriculture dont les missions ont ete transferees A partir de 1996 A la
nouvelle Direction Nationale de l'Appui au Monde Rural (DNAMR) dont le Directeur est le chef
de projet.
- le Coordinateur National;
- la Cellule de Gestion financi6re et Comptabilite.
* Niveau regional:
- le Directeur Regional de I'Appui au Monde Rural (DRAMR), president du comite regional de
Coordination;
- la Cellule de Gestion Financiere et comptable chargee de l'engagement des depenses et de
leur liquidation conformement au Programme d'Execution Technique et Financiere (PETF)
c) Structures d'execution: elles comprennent



35
* Niveau national:
- la DNAMR (Direction Nationale de l'Appui au Monde Rural)
- la DNAER (Direction Nationale de l'Amrnagement et de l'Equipement Rural)
- la DNAFLA (la Direction Nationale de l'Alphabetisation Fonctionnelle et de la Linguistique
Appliquee)
- 1IER (Institut d'Economie Rurale)
- une equipe de supervision constituee des membres du Comite National de Coordination;
- une seconde equipe de supervision constituee de superviseurs nationaux et des cinq specialistes
(Formation, Liaison Recherche/Vulgarisation, Promotion Feminine, Cellule de Gestion
Financiere, Suivi-Evaluation) et du coordinateur national. Ces cinq specialistes constituent
l'equipe du Secretariat technique au niveau de la Coordination nationale.
* Niveau regional:
- les Directions regionales de l'Appui au Monde Rural et les ODR d'Agriculture;
- les Directions regionales de l'Amenagement et de l'Equipement Rural;
- les Directions regionales de l'Education;
- les Centres Regionaux de Recherche Appliquee (CRRA)
- une 6quipe de 4 specialistes ( Formation, LRV, Cellule de Gestion Financiere, Suivi -
Evaluation).
* Niveau cercle:
- le chef de service de I'Appui Conseil de l'Amenagement et l'Equipement Rural (SLACAER)
entoure de Techniciens Specialises (TS) du Specialiste en Organisation Paysanne (SOP) et des
contr6leurs d'enquete.
* Niveau arrondissement (communal):
= Le superviseur Direct ( SD), les agents vulgarisateurs a la base (AVB), et les enqueteurs.
4 REALISATIONS DU PROGRAMME
Les resultats suivants ont et atteints au terne de la premiere phase de quatre ans et des deux ans
de prolongation.
4.1 Aspects techniques
4.1.1 Composante Vulgarisation Agricole
Les acquis
Par rapport aux resultats techniques, les realisations sont les suivantes:
* Couverture zonale
En terme de villages encadres, il a et6 couvert 4143 villages soit un taux de couverture de 65%
par rapport au potentiel de villages existants (6359 en 1995/1996).



36
Par rapport au nombre d'exploitations le taux de couverture etait de 72% en 1995/1996 ) et de
67% pour les superficies d'exploitation.
Le dispositif de vulgarisation a 6te deploye sur l'ensemble du territoire hormis les zones
couvertes par la CMD)T et a permis de toucher lA oi l'encadrement des producteurs etait
inexistant et renforcer la capacite d'autres structures telles que l'Office du Niger, les Offices Riz
(Segou et Mopti) et les projets et programmes dans les R&gions nord du pays.
Ainsi 12 500 Groupes de Contact ont ete touches en moyenne soit plus de 300 000 exploitations
agricoles.
* Personnel d'encadrement
L'effectif est passe de 895 agents en 1992/1993 a 1212 agents en 1994/1995 pour redescendre A
1183 agents en 1995/1i996 suite A la restructuration du programme qui a engendre en partie une
diminution des effectifs surtout sur certains postes (SD, TS, Responsables Regionaux de
formation, LRV, S/E).
A partir de 1994, le programme a ete renforce par l'ouverture de postes de specialistes nationaux
et regionaux.. Une autre incidence de la restructuration a 6te l'apparition d'AVB et de SD de
profil elevage et enviro:nnement pour donner corps a l'esprit d'integration au sein du programme.
II faut signaler aussi la mise en place d'organes de coordination et de supervision par region
(comite regional de coordination, equipe regionale de supervision).
* Ratios d'encadrement:
Si l'on considere I'anni6e 1991/1992 comme annee de r6ference, d'une maniere generale, la
tendance de 1992 a 1996 est a l'amelioration des ratios. En effet la moyenne de Villages/AVB est
de 5,5 au lieu de 4. Celle de G-C/AVB est de 23 contre 19 en 1991/1992 et PD/AVB est de 33,5
au lieu de 25 pour l'annee de reference.
Le District de Bamako cle part sa particularite connait un encadrement specifique et le ratio est I
specialiste ( Agriculture, Elevage, Environnement) pour 28 concessions rurales sur un total de 7
000 concessions rurales.
* Evolution des realisations en parcelles de Demonstration (PD) Agriculture ( principaux
themes):
Les PD ont connu les taux de realisation annuels de 71% en 1992/93 a 96% en 1993/94 et 55%
en 1994/95, ensuite 59% en 1995/96.
Cette evolution en dents de scie s'explique par la restructuration intervenue en 1994 qui a revu a
la baisse le ratio nombre de GC/AVB et par voie de consequence le nombre de demonstrations
par cercle AVB. Les tatux de realisation annuels, a 1'exception de 1993/94, sont moyens. Ceci
s'explique en grande partie par l'insuffisance des agents de base, des moyens de deplacement et



37
surtout la non disponibilite a temps des intrants pour les demonstrations. Aussi on a rencontre des
cas de perte due a la secheresse, aux noyades en zones inondees et aux sauteriaux.
Adoption des principaux themes vulgarises:
Des resultats significatifs ont ete enregistres:
* Utilisation la fumure organique: 81 840 adopteurs sur 123 883 hectares;
*  Traitement des semences:      61 199 adopteurs sur 66 318 hectares;
*  Deparasitage des animaux (bovins):    256 196 tetes;
*  Vaccination de la volaille:         502 890 sujets vaccin6s.
Quelques adoptions au niveau des paysans autres dans les regions ( 1997- 1998):
*  Kayes: entretiens culturaux sur mil:       27%
*  Segou: utilisation de la fumure organique sur mil:  50%
*  Koulikoro: densite de semis sur mil:       44%
* District de Bamako: repiquage des plants maraichers:25%
Incidences de certaines adoptions en Agriculture, Elevage et Environnement:
* Rendements en Agriculture (kg): speculations mil et riz
Les rendements moyens obtenus suite aux adoptions de themes en cultures cerealieres sont
superieurs sur les parcelles d'adoption (PA) a ceux des parcelles   ordinaires (PO).
C'est ainsi que les rendements moyens sur les PA en mil ont et6 en 1994/95 de 960 kg contre 640
kg sur les PO, et en 1997/98 de 680 kg sur les PA contre 510 kg sur les PO.
Pour la culture du riz les rendements moyens ont ete de 3,37 tonnes sur les PA en 1994/95 contre
2,68 tonnes sur les PO, et en 1997/98 de 4,5 tonnes sur les PA contre 3,05 tonnes sur les PO.
* Vaccination de volaille:
Les taux de mortalite ont diminue par l'application de la vaccination aviaire dans les regions
comme l'attestent les resultats suivants de quelques localites: Dans le District la mortalite
enregistree a et de 40% en 1994/95 contre 10% en 1997/98, et dans la region de Mopti elle a et
de 21% en 1994/95 contre 13% en
1997/98.
* Production de miel:
La production d'une ruche amrlioree varie de 12 a 15 kg tandis que celle des ruches
traditionnelles est de 5 kg en moyenne.
Les points faibles
- effectif des agents de base insuffisant;
- insuffisance de l'outil diagnostic utilise;
Les contraintes:
- absence de ligne de credit agricole qui handicape fortement la generalisation de l'adoption des
technologies par les paysans;
- difficulte d'approvisionnement des producteurs en intrants.



38
Ces deux contraintes ont en effet beaucoup affecte certains resultats du programme.
Les axes d'amelioratiion
- renforcer le personnel d'encadrement de base et amrliorer les competences des cadres par la
formation sp6cialis6e;
- promouvoir le credit agricole ( intrants, equipements);
- ameliorer l'outil diagnostic en adoptant l'approche participative villageoise.
4.1.2 Composante Liaison Recherche - Vulgarisation - Exploitation Agricole
Les acquis:
Toute une gamme de themes a ete mise en ceuvre de 1992 a 1996 a travers des test en milieu
paysan aussi bien en agriculture, elevage qu'en environnement et ce sur plusieurs sites a travers le
pays. C'est ainsi que sur 143 themes passes, 133 ont ete enregistres dans le domaine de
I'agriculture contre 6 el: 4 respectivement dans les domaines de I'elevage et de l'environnement
Ces flux technologiques ont permis de resoudre plusieurs preoccupations des producteurs
identifies lors des diagnostics et remontees a la Recherche.
Tous les paysans interview6s decrivent parfaitement les tests, demontrent leur interet et sont
acquis a la cause.
Le nombre de TMP realise est 2381. Les paysans ayant visite les stations de Recherche et les
TMP sont au nombre de 3604.
Les points faibles:
- retard dans la mise a disposition des intrants pour les TMP (engrais mineraux, semences, etc.);
- processus long dans la generation des technologies par les chercheurs;
- faible participation des chercheurs au diagnostic et parfois aux AMRT compte tenu de leur
effectif insuffisant.
Les axes d'amelioratio_n:
Par rapport aux essais et tests en milieu paysan:
- ameliorer le systeme cle gestion interne pour disposer des intrants a temps;
- assurer une plus grancle participation des vulgarisateurs dans les essais en milieu paysan par un
choix judicieux des traitements et une adaptation a l'agroecologie et au contexte socio
economique des paysans. Cette participation pourrait se concretiser lors des ateliers "Bilan et
Programmation" du PNVA au sein duquel le chercheur aura a presenter son programme d'essais
et tests qui fera l'objet de discussion. Les traitements suggeres par le chercheur pourront 8tre ainsi
amendes par les vulgarisateurs.
4.1.3 Composante Formation - Communication, Alphabetisation et Organisations
paysannes



39
Les acquis:
Durant la periode 1992-1998 le bilan est le suivant:
- en AMRT, le nombre de sessions realisees est de 446 sur une prevision de 592 soit 79%. Les
participants ont ete de 853 sur une prevision de 924 soit 92%.
- En FQ, le nombre de sessions a ete de 3463 sur une prevision de 4190 soit 83%.
- Les Visites d'echanges d'experiences entre paysans ont connu un taux de realisation de 51% par
rapport aux previsions. Centrees essentiellement sur les paysans, la participation de l'encadrement
a ete faite dans la proportion de 1 pour 5 paysans.
- Les Formnations specifiques: 585 sessions ont et realisees sur une prevision de 962 soit 61%.
Ces sessions ont concemr 15 389 personnes surune prevision de 43 389 soit 35 %.
- I'Alphab6tisation et les Organisations paysannes:
* en Alphabetisation fonctionnelle, il y a eu 11 sessions de formation qui ont concerne
560 animateurs externes, 11200 auditeurs, 33 SOP et 2726 neo-alphabetes. Sur une prevision de
400 centres a ouvrir, 385 ont ete realises soit 96%. Sur les 385 crees, 104 ne sont pas
fonctionnels a cause surtout de l'exode des animateurs villageois;
* la Formation des formateurs de paysans: elle stest adressee aux neo-alphabetes
confirmes par le test de niveau et a regroupe en mnoyenne 10 a 20 auditeurs par centre de
formation a raison de 5 a 10 auditeurs par village.; 71 formateurs de  paysans ont ete formes
sur prevision de 151 soit 47%;
* la Formation des neo-alphabetes en gestion: 2660 ont etes formes sur une prevision de
4170 neo-alphabetes soit 64%;
- les activites mediatiques: elles ont connu une r6alisation de 95 emissions Radio et 7 pour la Tele
aux niveaux regional et local a partir de 1993.
Le faible taux de realisation des emissions Tele s'explique par la non decentralisation de cet outil
au niveau regional (excepte Mopti et Kayes qui emettaient sur differe et sur une courte plage).
Tandis que le developpement des radios de proximite a joue en faveur des emissions radio.
-  les autres formations:
-  Cinq voyages d'etudes ont eu lieu en Guinee- Conakry, Benin, Burkina Faso;
-  Six Consultations ont ete menees dans divers domaines ( Test de credit, Acces des femmes
aux services Agricoles, Etudes par les Beneficiaires, Etudes quantitative, Revue a mi-
parcours, Evaluation finale);
- Quatre sessions de formation ont ete recues de l'exterieur du pays (France, Senegal, Pays-
Bas).



40
Les points faibles:
- faible implication des TS et des paysans dans le processus de programmation finale des themes
techniques;
- faible valorisation des neo-alphabetes
- insuffisance de supports pedagogiques et d'activites mediatiques;
- insuffisance de formation des AVB en technique de communication.
- insuffisance de formLation specialisee pour les cadres;
Les axes d'amilioration:
- rendre le processus de programmation plus participatif;
- creer, equiper et doter des centres d'alphabetisation en materiels didactiques;
- identifier des creneaux d'utilisation des neo-alphabetes;
- renforcer le contact avec l'ORTM et les radios rurales pour parvenir a une meilleure
exploitation des m6dias et ameliorer ainsi le systeme d'information des producteurs.
- realiser des formations specialisees pour les responsables et les TS
4.1.4 Composante Suivi -Evaluation
Les acquis:
- La restructuration du Programme suite A l'evaluation mi-parcours a abouti A un dispositif unique
de S/E tant au niveau national que regional et local. Le nombre de cellules a ete reduit de 17 A 6.
La cellule centrale a t etoffee avec deux cadres. Les ratios ont et ameliores, et le r8le des
responsables dans le Suivi-Evaluation A tous les niveaux a ete defini pour un meilleur pilotage
du programme.
- Le fonctionnement du reseau a evolue en rapport avec les objectifs de vulgarisation et a
debouche sur les resultats significatifs suivants:
-  la tenue d'ateliers nationaux sur le Suivi/evaluation pour assurer une maitrise des outils. Six
ateliers ont et organises;
-  la participation A six ateliers sous- regionaux de Suivi-evaluation pour harmoniser les outils;
-  la conduite d'enqu8tes specifiques sur les groupes de contact qui a une meilleure constitution
de ces derniers ainsi qu'une amelioration de leur fonctionnement;
-  la conduite des etudes sur PNvaluation quantitative de la vulgarisation agricole et l'evaluation
qualitative du Programme par les beneficiaires;
-   l'eaboration du rapport sur l' volution du rendement des parcelles et unites d'adoption;
-  la publication des resultats qui ont et significatifs au niveau des technologies (lutilisation de
la fumure organique, les entretiens culturaux, les traitements des semences, le deparasitage
des animaux, la vaccination de la volaille, la lutte anti-erosive, etc.).
-  la formation du personnel et son recyclage aux methodologies d'enquetes. Les agents ayant
participe sont au nombre de 344 enqueteurs, 130 contr6leurs, 47 responsables de cellules. Les
missions d'appui aux agents de terrain sont au nombre de 3.



41
Les points faibles
- absence d'enquetes de Suivi Evaluation de base;
- instabilite des agents suite aux frequentes mutations;
- retard parfois marqu6 dans la foumiture des donnees de base par le reseau de la vulgarisation
entrainant le plus souvent des enquetes retrospectives;
- frequence elevee des enquetes de Suivi (taux de participation; taux d'adoption; taux/sur les
unites d'adoption);
- pertinence non evidente de certains indicateurs;
- insuffisance de la maitrise des outils de collecte par certains agents;
- insuffisance dans la circulation des informations au sein des structures;
-  insuffisance des missions sectorielles d'appui;
- inexistence de stages de perfectionnement.
Les axes d'amelioration
- relancer des ateliers nationaux et sous regionaux de Suivi/evaluation pour une meilleure
formation des agents;
- mettre l'accent sur les etudes et les enquetes specifiques ainsi que sur les missions sectorielles
d'appui;
- identifier des indicateurs pertinents d'impact ainsi qu'une methodologie de mesure des
resultats;
- r6duire la frequence des enquetes de Suivi;
-  former en informatique et /ou recycler les responsables du Suivi/evaluation a l'utilisation des
outils de traitements des donnees aux niveaux central et regional .
- profiter du recensement agricole pour avoir une base de donnees aptes a la mesure des
impacts.
4.2 Situation Financiere du Programme
4.2.1: METHODES RETENUES POUR LE SUIVI ET LA PRESENTATION DES
ETATS FINANCIERS
Le suivi comptable et financier des operations du Programme effectue au sein de Cellule
Administrative, Comptable et Financiere a connu deux phases d'evolution dans sa prise en charge
des transactions initiees pour l'execution du Projet.
Au cours des trois premiers exercices (1992 - 1994), les operations du Programme etaient
apprehendees dans les livres sur la base des principes d'une comptabilite de tresorerie.
A partir de 1995 un nouveau progiciel de comptabilite et de gestion a ete mis en vigueur. Ainsi,
les etats financiers du PNVA comprenaient desormais un bilan, un compte de resultats et les
differentes situations annexes donnant des informations complementaires sur la situation des
deboursements par categories de depenses, le fichier des immobilisations.



4.2.2: Presentation de la situation financiere consolidee du PNVA au 22 octobre 1998
4.2.2.1: Le tableau d'execution budgetaire
Au 22 octobre 1998, la situation consolidee d'execution des depenses s'eablit comme suit:
Categories de depenses   Montant Initial  Reallocation  Reallocation    Consommation au Reliquat         %
. _________________________I en DTS      -3-avr-97         1-v8          22-octobre-98                    Consommation
I Genie civil              600 000         300 000         290 000         285 250,19      4 749,81      98,36 %
2 Equipements et materiels   1 300 000     910 000         920 000         911 521,10      8 478,90      99,08 %
3 Whicules                4 000 000       5 000 000       5 000 000      4 546 332,28     453 667,72     90, 93 %
4 Services de consultants   600 000       2 550 000       2 700 000      2 671 436,07       28 563,93    98,94 %
5 Couits de fonctionnement   9 200 000    8 580 000      8 430 000       8 573 226,66     - 143 226,66    101,70 %
6 Remboursement de l'avance
pour la preparation du projet   1 100 000   960 000        960 000        958 173,72          1 826,28   99,81 %
7 Non affecte              1 500 000             0               0              0                 0          0
18 300 000     18 300 000      18 300 000     17 945 940,02          - 125,78
Manque a gagner sur le
remboursement du compte
special.                                                                   353 934,20
Total                 18 300 000      18 300 000      18 300 000     18 299 874,22          - 125,78      100,00 %
Le taux d'execution reel du credit est de 98,06 % ( 17 945 940,02 DTS )  Avec la prise en charge du manque A gagner du
recouvrement du compte special (353 934,20 DTS) nous avons un taux d'execution de 100,00 % du credit.



43
4.2.3: Situation des fonds de contrepartie
La contribution de l'Etat malien au financement du PNVA se fait au moyen de la prise en
charge d'une quote-part des charges encourues sur la categorie 5 FONCTIONNEMENT
et represente 15 % des depenses effectu6es sur cette categorie.
L'Etat malien a effectue en 1994 et 1995 un important effort de rattrapage des retards de
versement de 1992 et 1993.
A cette date le montant global de la contrepartie malienne est de 985.149.750 FCFA
contre 690.000.000 FCFA initialement prevus dans l'accord de credit, suite a l'incidence
de la devaluation.
Le tableau suivant donne la situation des versements effectues de 1992 A 1998:
Exercices  Inscriptions    Montants
budgetaires     alloues
1992         107 103 000    26 775 750
1993         110 250 000    110 000 000
1994        308 446 000   308 446 000
1995        382 138 000   382 138 000
1996         47 000 000    47 00 0000
1997         47 000 000    39 950 000
1998         70 840 000    70 840 000
Total         1 072 777 000   985 149 750
4.2.4 Passation des marches:
Tous les marches ont ete executes conformement aux directives de la Direction Generale
des Marches Publics et de la Banque Mondiale et ont porte sur la foumiture des biens
d'equipement (117 vehicules, 270 motos, 1.496 mobylettes et materiels de bureau).
4.2.5 Audit:
Les comptes du PNVA ont et audit6s a la fin de chaque exercice c'est a dire le 30 juin et
cela de 1992 a 1998. Le dernier audit a eu lieu le 14 septembre 1998.
4.2.6 Les points faibles:
- absence de disponibilite de fonds au niveau r6gional pour financer les activites de
formation, de deplacement et de transport;
- lourdeur dans le mecanisme de passation de marche.



44
4.2.7 Les axes d'amelioration:
- mettre en place au niveau regional un fonds de roulement pour executer les activites de
formation, de deplacement et de transport;
- alleger le mecanisme de passation de marche.
5. APPUIS DE LA BANQUE MONDIALE
Le PNVA a regulierement requ les missions de supervision du siege en plus de celles de
la mission residente de la Banque Mondiale.
Les differentes recommandations ont facilite la bonne execution du programme.
6. VIABILITE DU PROGRAMME
La mise en oeuvre du programme va se poursuivre dans le cadre de la restructuration du
Ministere et aussi de la decentralisation. Deja la structure de base AVB, SD, TS etc. a et6
adopte dans le nouveau schema institutionnel du MDRE.
Le Programme d'Appui aux Services Agricoles et aux Organisations Paysannes
(PASAOP) en cours d'elaboration au MDRE comprend quatre composantes dont l'une est
Vulgarisation, Alphabetisation et Formnation.
Les acquis de la premiere phase du PNVA sont pris en compte dans cette composante et
devraient etre consolides. Toutefois pour ne pas briser I'61an que lon observe suite a
l'action sur le terrain du PNVA, un arret meme momentane du financement est
pr6judiciable aux acquis.
La viabilite du programme dependra de l'observation des differents axes d'amelioration et
notamment la participation des beneficiaires a la programmation, au financement, au
suivi et a l'evaluation de la vulgarisation ( communes rurales, O.P.A, ONG), le
developpement institutionnel adapte a cette forme de gestion partageant les missions de
vulgarisation entre les services de vulgarisation, les prives et les collectivites territoriales.
7. EFFETS ET IMAPACTS DU PROGRAMME
Les effets du programme sont perceptibles sur le plan de la vulgarisation agricole. Depuis
la restructuration de 1994 on a constat6 une integration des profils des agents du
Developpement Ruiral ce qui a entrain6 l'apparition d'un professionnalisme au niveau non
seulement du vulgairisateur mais egalement du paysan.
En plus les zones ou l'encadrement etait pratiquement inexistant beneficient aujourd'hui
d'un dispositif efficace de vulgarisation a travers le PNVA.



45
Au niveau de l'exploitation, I'adoption des technologies est satisfaisante et se traduit par
une augmentation notable des rendements dans les villages encadres par le programme.
Des ameliorations ont ete constatees en matiere de restauration de la fertilit& des sols A
travers la lutte anti-erosive et la fertilisation organique.
Par rapport aux femmes on a note une meilleure implication dans le programme; cette
participation est passee de 7 A 22% A la fin du programme. II est apparu entre autres un
allegement de leurs charges de travail et une diversification de leurs sources de revenus.
Au niveau village on assiste A une apparition des organisations paysannes mieux
structurees mais qui ont besoin d'etre dynamrisees et d'avantage plus organisees pour une
meilleure prise en charge de toutes leurs actions de developpement.
En ce qui concerne le partenariat, le programme a developpe une veritable collaboration
avec differents intervenants (ONG, projets, administration, chambres consulaires, prives,
etc.).
8. CONCLUSION
Le manque de situation de r6ference depuis le demarrage du programme et l'absence
d'indicateurs de mesure d'impact dans les documents de base n'ont pas permis d'evaluer
surtout l'impact socio - economique et environnemental A la fin de la premiere phase.
On note toutefois que les conclusions des etudes realisees notamment sur l'Evaluation
quantitative de la Vulgarisation et l'Evaluation du programme par les b6neficiaires
degagent des resultats d'une maniere generale positifs.
Cependant pour l'atteinte de l'objectif global du Programme qui vise l'amelioration des
revenus des paysans et l'augmentation de la production, il est indispensable de consolider
les acquis de la premiere phase et de corriger les faiblesses constatees en s'orientant
notamment vers un diagnostic villageois plus participatif, en mettant l'accent sur la
formation et la responsabilisation des OPA et en favorisant la mise en place d'un systeme
de credit mieux adapte aux realites paysannes qui prend en compte l'approvisionnement
en intrants et les besoins en equipements indispensables. En outre les actions devraient
porter sur une plus grande implication des beneficiaires a la programmation, au
financement et au suivi - evaluation de la vulgarisation.



46
Annex III
Ss. CT/MS
MINISTERE DU DE;VELOPPEMENT                                  RLpublique da Mali
RURAL ET DE L'BAU                                 u. u  eopiewUn DMr-Vatt Foi
SECRETARIAT GENERAL
v   3 9 B                     ~~~~2 2 WS! MO
______/   R-GBamako. le22NEI99
Le Ministre du D6veloppement
Rural et de l'Eau
A  Madame le Reprosentut cde 1l Mission
\' <fr/                    RAsidente de la Baiuque Monrdiale
'Ule '7 btABAMAKO
RUf V/L GIY/W0075199 du 10,oZ/1099               - --1
Qkiu.: P1zusM.mwNa&nl de Iui o   o                 r           t 2 MAR'
(PNVAI ''app. i4cMMUI r
Comme suit a. votre ltme citAe en r&ene lelative au rapport d'acht-vement du PNVA. j'ai
l'hounneur de vous faire parveur a-joint, les coumentaires de ines servces tecdquuques suir
!Ledit rapport
Veuiflez agreer, Madazne le Reprtsnw t, r assurance de ma consideration distnuie.'
P/LE MINISTRE/'PO
LE SECRET             RAL
Maum       9Or, I'Aa



47
Annex III
MINSTElRE DU DEVELOPlE[MNT                          REPUBLIQUE DU MALI
RURAL ET DE LEAU                            Un Peuple-IUn But-Une Foi
DIRECTION NATIONALE DE
L'APPUI AU MONDE RVRAL
COMMENTAIRES SUR LE RAPPORT
D'ACHEVEMENT DU PNVA
(CREDIT 2235/MLI)
Le rapport dans l'ensemble est conforme aux constats des diffrentes missions d'eva.luation de
fin de la 1 ' phase du PNVA:
* Evaluation interne de ful de V1" phase
* Rappont d'achevement du PNVA: contribution de l'emprunteur.
Cependant au point 9 du chapitre "C" nous formulonis les observations suivantes:
1. Les resultats du PNVA en matieres d'activites midiatiques tels que founi's dans le rapport
d'ivaluation interne indiquent que de 1992 a 1996 sur 170 sessions programmees 81 ont
itc r6alistes soit 48%.
Les canaux utilis6s sont la radio nationale (Radio - Mali) et les radios de proximnit6s sises
dans certaines villes du pays.
Au niveau national des differents themes ont reguli6rement passe sur les ondes i 6 H 45
chaque matin du lundi au vendredi.
Quant aux radios de proximitd, elles sont encore absentes dans plusieurs vilies et leur
port6e est relativement courte.
2. 1'enquete "Evaluation du PNVA par les binificiaires" a concernd-
- 72 villages dont 48 du PNVA gur 4 036 soit 1,18% dans 4 r4gions (Kayes, Ko ulikoro,
Segou et Mopti), & raison de 18 villages dont 12 PNIVA par r6gion.
- 5 PMGC enqu&&s par village dont 4 hornmes et une femme soit au total 360 paysans
membre de GC dont 240 sur 120 250 du PNVA (94 132 H et 26 136 F) soit 0,199 -
0,20%
Cet echantillon nous paraft tr6s f&ible pour unr extrapolation dans le domaine de l'6coute
de radio.



48
Annex III
3. Coustts
-  Les paysans enqu&es repr6Mtent 0,20% du PNVA;
- Les villages e.nqu&tis consftent 1,18% du total des villages du PNVA;
-  L-es activites m6diaiques qui Eidet Xibl emen  sxcutees par le niveau national se
sont nettemelt amiuior6cs au cours de la campagne 1997/98 par:
* La diffusion de Sketches sur les thames porteurs;
*  La produicton darticles dans les joumaux destines au inonde rural (presse
communiiutaire).
4. Commentaires
En r6alit6 beaucoup de methodes non traditionnelles de diffusion de tecluiologies ont ete
utilisees dans le cadre du PNVA. On peut citer entre autres:
*  Le theatre
T La radio rurale sur des themes porteurs
*  Les sketches a ia t6lvision
'  La traduccon dts fiches techniques en diffireates langues locales et leAir mise a
disposition au niveau des producteurs dans les centres d'alphabAisation
* La mise i disposition des journaux en langues locales de la presse comrnmunautainr dans les
centres d'alphab64isation
* Les visites d'echange d'experience inter - villageois entre les secteurs et r6gional sur des
r6sultats positifs obtenus en terme d'adoption
*  Les joum6es pontes ouverres et les visites danis les stations de recherche et autour des
T,.
2



M  A L I
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT                                                                                                                  A L G E R I A
REGIONS WHERE EXTENSION ARE TO BE FINANCED BY THE PROJECT
REGIONS WHERE EXTENSIONS ARE FINANCED BY OTHER PROJECTS
CMDT REGIONS
NO AGRICULTURAL EXTENSIONS
A      IER HEADQUARTERS
@J    IER RESEARCH STATIONS
INRZFH HEADQUARTERS                                                                                                   GAO
TOA4CBOLUCTOU                                         R F G A 0 N
0      INRZFH RESEARCH STATIONS                                        Re7GIO ('G A/                                    J       7)
X                 ~~~~~66)                  v.{
RAILROAD
O)    REGION CAPITALS
NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                   Tm T
=INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES   e  
Y E YES                 X     W      2~ J1/h         9Kogonh
CtLn  X  A  , SoYuba                                                                   MAUR/TANA            M  A L            NE 
Z                        e               KOULIKORO       /     _r    _FSo
G   U   IhN  E A                                                 FO                                                  ,,n,5   Th.
0  50 100  150 200  250               ff                                                        | |p hI ,p,-dbANIA Bamako
w LURRINA ;                                          A  L 1
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h =.                                        bl H.W t,  m1
KILOMETERS                                                          endorsrn,ent or acceplancrof                      EASO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~th
Cz-,tz,,,77,, d.......                              NIGERI
COT   D  IVOIRE                                                    GUINEA                GHANA   BENIN~-d-l, h,



