                                                                                                            94442
                                                                                                       September 3, 2009



                                                                Links:
                                                                - What is IDA?
                                                                - Our Work in Bosnia and Herzegovina


                                                                More on Bosnia and Herzegovina:
                                                                - Borrowing History
                                                                - Data & Statistics
                                                                - Research
                                                                - Contact Us




Before war erupted in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1992, the country’s economy was based on
heavy and military industry, and dominated by several large state-owned conglomerates. A
major part of this economy was destroyed during the conflict. As a result, the country was left
without the most basic infrastructure and services, and suffered from significant unemployment.
People had a hard time launching new businesses since the commercial banking sector was
embryonic. The emerging private sector found it extremely arduous to access capital, while
micro-enterprises and low-income clientele found it downright impossible.




The IDA-financed Local Initiatives Microfinance Project was launched in 1997 shortly after the
war to address the urgent need to raise incomes, develop businesses, and create jobs in Bosnia
and Herzegovina. IDA’s approach was an innovative one since microfinance was unheard of in
Bosnia and Herzegovina at the time. IDA provided financing to eight micro-credit organizations,
invested in building local capacity in this new field, and developed a legal and regulatory
framework so the micro-credit organizations could diversify their financing sources and services.
The project provided financial services to low-income clients and micro-entrepreneurs to launch
or expand businesses. In the immediate post-war period, the project gave priority to demobilized
soldiers, women entrepreneurs, and those displaced or disabled by the conflict. This jumpstarted
the development of the micro-credit sector, whereupon a second project was launched in 2002 to
increase the sector’s scale, financial sustainability, and social impact.




About 380,000 micro-credits for more than EUR 600 million were disbursed over 10 years
from the revolving micro-credit fund. When the project closed in 2005, eight partner
organizations were serving about 100,000 active borrowers.


Highlights:
- Jobs created. More than 200,000 jobs were created or sustained. An independent impact
assessment showed that client businesses on average employ 2.1 persons, and that there was a
very positive impact of micro-credits on businesses, household income and even registration
(formalization) of businesses.


- Gender parity achieved. 50 percent of borrowers were women. This strengthened women’s role
in the family and helped support female-headed households. This was an important contribution,
since the war left many households without male heads of families.


- Formal sector expanded. 60 percent of new clients formalized their businesses, compared to
less than 40 percent of non-clients surveyed.


- Loan terms and conditions improved over time. For example: the average loan term of micro-
credit in 2000 was 10 months, whereas in 2005 it was more than 15 months. Interest rates
significantly declined, from close to 30 percent APR to about 15 percent APR (inflation was
constant and did not affect the decline).


- Strong repayment rates. Performance indicators of partner micro-credit organizations were
strong throughout project implementation, including a portfolio-at-risk of less than 1 percent.


- Sector framework established. An appropriate legal and regulatory framework was established,
which allowed micro-credit organizations to attract equity investments in addition to the initial
options—donor grants, subsidized donor loans, and commercial loans. The project also
strengthened supervision of the sector in accordance with international best practices.


- Overall, the two projects helped create a sustainable and well performing microcredit industry
that can meet the needs of microenterprises and low income clients in Bosnia and Herzegovina.




The total cost of the two Local Initiatives Microfinance Projects was US$44.3 million, of which
IDA contributed US$27 million. IDA used its global expertise in microfinance to pioneer the
micro-credit approach in Bosnia and Herzegovina.




The Governments of Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Switzerland as well as the UN High
Commissioner for Refugees provided co-financing for the first project.




Although the project closed, the revolving funds of the partner micro-credit organizations
continue providing funds for micro-entrepreneurs—which is spurring new employment and
businesses. Interest from private equity funds, local and international banks, as well as the
International Finance Corporation and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
suggest that the micro-credit industry will remain sustainable in Bosnia and Herzegovina long
into the future.




Local Initiatives (Microfinance) Project I, (1996-2001)
Project documents
Local Initiatives (Microfinance) Project II (2001-2005)
Project documents
Last updated: 2009-09-03
