Page  1
CONFORMED 
COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 4783-IRN 
 
Guilan Project Agreement 
 
(Northern Cities Water Supply and Sanitation Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
GUILAN WATER AND WASTEWATER COMPANY  
 
Dated  June 27 , 2005  
Page  2
-
2
-
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 4783-IRN 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated June 27, 2005, between the INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the 
GUILAN WATER AND WASTEWATER COMPANY (the Guilan Water 
Company). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Islamic 
Republic of Iran (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make a loan to the 
Borrower in the amount of two hundred twenty four million United States Dollars 
(US$224,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only 
on condition that the Guilan Water Company agrees to undertake such obligations toward 
the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; 
 
(B) 
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and the Guilan Water Company, part of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the 
Loan Agreement will be made available, as a loan, to the Guilan Water Company on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement (the Guilan Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement); and 
 
WHEREAS the Guilan Water Company, in consideration of the Bank’s entering 
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set 
forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so 
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional term 
has the following meaning: “Guilan Project Account” means the account referred to in 
Section 4.03(a) of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) The Guilan Water Company declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this 
Page  4
-
2
-
end, shall carry out Project activities in Parts A, B, C, D and E of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
engineering, environmental, social and public utility practices, and shall provide, or cause 
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and the Guilan Water Company shall otherwise agree, the Guilan 
Water Company shall carry out its Project activities in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and services required for Parts A, B, C, D, and E of the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, as these provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
 
(b) 
The Guilan Water Company shall update the Procurement Plan in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not 
later than twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the 
Bank’s approval. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) The Guilan Water Company shall carry out the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Guilan Project 
Agreement. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Guilan Water Company shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and the Guilan Water Company, a plan for the 
future undertaking of Project activities in Parts A, B, C, D and E 
of the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Guilan Water Company on said plan. 
 
Section 2.04. The Guilan Water Company shall duly perform all its obligations 
under the Guilan Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Guilan Water Company shall not take or concur in any action which would have the 
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Guilan Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Page  5
-
3
-
Section 2.05. (a) The Guilan Water Company shall, at the request of the Bank, 
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Project activities in Parts A, 
B, C, D and E of the Project, the performance of Guilan Water Company under this 
Agreement and under the Guilan Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating 
to the purposes of the Loan. 
 
(b) 
The Guilan Water Company shall promptly inform the Bank of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Project activities 
in Parts A, B, C, D and E of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or 
the performance by the Guilan Water Company of its obligations under this Agreement 
and under the Guilan Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Management and Operations of the Guilan Water Company 
 
Section 3.01. The Guilan Water Company shall carry on its operations and 
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, 
environmental and public utility practices under the supervision of qualified and 
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
 
Section 3.02. The Guilan Water Company shall at all times operate and maintain 
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as 
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial, environmental and public utility practices. 
 
Section 3.03. The Guilan Water Company shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance 
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Guilan Water Company shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to Project activities in Parts A, B, C, D, 
and E of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Guilan Water Company shall: 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section as well as its own financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements), for 
each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), audited, 
in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;  
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
for such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
Section 4.02.  (a) The Guilan Water Company shall prepare and furnish to the 
Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for Project activities in 
Parts A, B, C, D, and E of the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such 
funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in the implementation of 
Project activities in Parts A, B, C, D, and E of the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and explains variances between the actual
 
and 
planned implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under Project activities 
in Parts A, B, C, D, and E of the Project, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter 
Page  7
-
5
-
after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first 
expenditure under Project activities in Parts A, B, C, D, and E of the Project 
through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial 
Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
 
Section 4.03. (a) The Guilan Water Company shall, not later than the 
Effective Date until completion of the Project, open, and thereafter maintain in 
Rial a Project account, in the name of the Guilan Water Company. The Guilan 
Project Account shall be used exclusively by the Guilan Water Company to meet 
the expenditures of the Project not financed from proceeds of the Loan. 
 
(b) 
The Guilan Water Company shall, not later than the Effective Date pay 
into the Guilan Project Account an initial deposit equivalent to US$1,000,000 
representing the first six (6) months of the Guilan Water Company’s contribution to the 
costs of the Project; and thereafter deposit into the Guilan Project Account, not later than 
March 21 of each calendar year until completion of the Project, the amount of the Guilan 
Water Company’s annual contribution to the said costs for such calendar year, as 
determined by agreement between the Guilan Water Company and the Bank. 
 
(c) 
The Guilan Water Company shall ensure that all amounts deposited into 
the Guilan Project Account, in accordance with the provisions of this Section, shall be 
used exclusively to finance the Guilan Water Company’s counterpart contribution to 
expenditures of the Project not otherwise financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
 
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guilan Water 
Company shall maintain, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on  
March 21, 2006, a ratio of total operating expenses, excluding depreciation and financial 
charges, to total operating revenues, acceptable to the Bank, so as to enable the Guilan 
Water Company to achieve, by June 30, 2010, a ratio of total operating expenses, 
excluding depreciation and financial charges, to total operating revenues not higher than 
0.75. 
 
(b) 
Before March 21 in each of its fiscal years, the Guilan Water Company 
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by Guilan Water Company and satisfactory to the 
Bank, review whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) above in 
respect of such year and the next following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Bank the 
results of such review upon its completion. 
 
(c) 
If any such review shows that the Guilan Water Company would not 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) above for the Guilan Water Company's 
fiscal years covered by such review, the Guilan Water Company shall promptly take all 
Page  8
-
6
-
necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels 
of its rates) in order to meet such requirements. 
 
(d) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) The 
term 
‘‘total operating expenses’’ means all expenses related 
to operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, 
taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, of the average current gross 
value of the Guilan Water Company's fixed assets in operation, 
or other basis acceptable to the Bank, but excluding financial 
charges. 
 
(ii) 
The term ‘‘total operating revenues’’ means revenues from all 
sources related to operations. 
 
(iii) 
The average current gross value of the Guilan Water Company’s 
fixed assets in operation shall be calculated as one half of the 
sum of the gross value of the Guilan Water Company's fixed 
assets in operation at the beginning and at the end of the fiscal 
year, as valued from time to time in accordance with sound and 
consistently maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to the 
Bank. 
 
Section 4.05. The Guilan Water Company shall: (a) reduce its accounts 
receivable for water and wastewater sales so that, commencing on June 30, 2010, such 
accounts receivable shall not exceed the sum of the amounts billed by the Guilan Water 
Company during the four (4) months immediately preceding the date on which such 
calculation is made; and (b) reduce the level of its unaccounted-for water so that, 
commencing on June 30, 2010, such level shall not exceed 27% of the water supplied by 
the Guilan Water Company. 
 
Section 4.06. The Guilan Water Company shall not later than 
 
September 30, 2006, prepare and submit to the Bank a satisfactory and acceptable 
environment impact assessment report regarding the proper collection treatment and 
disposal of sludge from the three wastewater treatment plants (Rasht and Anzali West 
and Anzali East), together with evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, of the financing of the 
facilities related to the collection, treatment and disposal of the sludges. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Page  9
-
7
-
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of the Guilan 
Water Company thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement 
shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify the 
Guilan Water Company thereof. 
 
Section 5.03. All these provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For the Guilan Water Company: 
 
Guilan Province Water and Wastewater Company 
Next to Ghods Park 
Rasht, Guilan 
Post Code 41635-1579 
 
Islamic Republic of Iran 
 
Facsimile:  
Page  10
-
8
-
98 131 322 5020 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any 
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of 
the Guilan Water Company, or by the Guilan Water Company on behalf of the 
Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by its Managing 
Director or such other person or persons as the Managing Director shall designate 
in writing, and the Managing Director  
 
shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated 
specimen signature of each such person. 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Washington, District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and 
year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By  /s/ Christiaan J. Poortman 
Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa 
 
GUILAN WATER AND WASTEWATER COMPANY 
 
By  /s/ Masoud Mozayani 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), the 
provisions of the MOU, and with the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), the provisions of the MOU, and 
with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. 
International Competitive Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding in 
accordance with the following provisions: 
 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
Page  12
-
10 - 
 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost US$250,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
(b) 
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
US$5,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraphs 2.7 and 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
 
(c) Prequalification
Bidders for work contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$10,000,000 or 
more shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 
of the Guidelines. 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
.
Works estimated to cost less than US$5,000,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$150,000,000 
equivalent, and goods estimated to cost less than US$250,000 per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed US$1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding and the following 
additional provisions: 
 
(i) 
the format of the bidding documents shall be consistent with the 
Bank’s standard bidding documents; 
 
(ii) 
tenders shall be advertised in national and provincial newspapers 
of wide circulation with a bid submission deadline of thirty (30) 
days from advertisement;  
 
(iii) 
qualification criteria shall be stated in the bidding documents; 
 
(iv) 
government-owned enterprises shall be subject to the same bid 
and performance security requirements as other bidders and shall 
not be eligible to bid for contracts unless they: (a) are legally and 
financially autonomous; (b) operate under the provisions of the 
Borrower’s commercial code; and (c) are not selected by the 
supervising or reporting ministry or governmental agency;  
 
(v) 
bidding will be open to qualified bidders who are registered in 
the MPO qualification system and who satisfy the qualification 
criteria indicated in the bidding documents; 
 
(vi) 
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding; 
Page  13
-
11 - 
 
(vii) 
all bids shall be submitted in sealed envelopes and shall be 
accepted whether mailed or hand-carried;  
 
(viii) 
all bids shall be opened at the same time in public;  
 
(ix) 
the time for the bid openings shall be the same as for the deadline 
for receipt of bids or promptly thereafter; 
 
(x) 
prospective bidders may submit one bid in two (2) envelopes 
provided said envelopes shall be opened at the same time;  
 
(xi) 
all bids shall be evaluated on the basis of price and other criteria 
disclosed in the bid documents, and no provision for preferential 
treatment for national companies shall apply;  
(xii) 
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive 
bidder;  
 
(xiii) 
bids shall be solicited and contracts shall be awarded on the basis 
of unit prices proposed by the bidders and not on offering 
discounts (or increases) on unit rates that are published or stated 
in the bidding documents;  
 
(xiv) 
no bidder shall be requested or permitted to modify his, her or its 
bid after the bid’s closing date shall have elapsed;  
 
(xv) 
price negotiations with the lowest evaluated responsive bidder 
shall be prohibited; and 
 
(xvi) 
before rejecting all bids and soliciting new bids, the Bank’s prior 
concurrence shall be obtained. 
 
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$500,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
Works of an emergency nature, and goods of a proprietary 
nature costing US$1,000,000 or less in the aggregate, which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of that procurement method. 
 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Page  14
-
12 - 
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than 
US$200,000 equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines, estimated to cost less than 
US$200,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in exceptional circumstances that 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source 
Selection, and if justified in the context of the overall interests of the Guilan Water 
Company and the Project, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
4. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
 
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: 
 
(i) 
each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
US$5,000,000 or more;  
 
(ii) 
each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
US$250,000 or more; 
 
(iii) 
the first two contracts for works to be procured under National 
Competitive Bidding procedures;  
 
Page  15
-
13 - 
 
(iv) 
the first contract for goods to be procured under National 
Competitive Bidding procedures;  
 
(v) 
the first contract for goods to be procured under Shopping 
procedures; 
 
(vi) 
all direct award contracts; 
 
(vii) 
the first two contracts awarded for each type of selection 
method; 
 
(viii)  any contract for goods and works awarded before the 
effectiveness of the Loan and to be paid from proceeds of the 
Loan; 
(ix) 
each contract for a consulting firm estimated to cost the 
equivalent of US$100,000 or more; 
 
(x) 
each contract for consultancy services to an individual consultant 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more; and 
 
(xi) 
any single-source contract. 
 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Page  16
-
14 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Implementation Program 
 
A. 
Project Coordination and Implementation
1. 
(a) The Guilan Water Company shall: (i) maintain the Environmental 
Management Plan, the Land Acquisition Plan, the Procurement Plan, and the 
Resettlement Policy Framework in a form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and  
(ii) implement the Environmental Management Plan, the Land Acquisition Plan and 
Resettlement Policy Framework in accordance with the objectives, policies, procedures, 
time schedules and other provisions set forth therein.  
 
(b) 
The Guilan Water Company shall refrain from taking any action which 
shall prevent or interfere with the implementation of the Environmental Management 
Plan, the Land Acquisition Plan, the Procurement Plan, and the Resettlement Policy 
Framework.  
 
B. 
Reports and Mid-term Report
1. 
The Guilan Water Company shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the 
carrying out of Project activities in Parts A, B, C, D and E of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Borrower for review and submission to the Bank: (i) commencing March 21, 2006, 
quarterly reports on the progress achieved in the carrying out of projects activities in Parts 
A, B, C, D, and E of the Project, including reports on the implementation of the 
Page  17
-
15 - 
 
Environmental Management Plan; and (ii) not later than December 31, 2007, a report, 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Project 
activities in Parts A, B, C, D and E of the Project, including the implementation of the 
Environmental Management Plan, during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of Project 
activities in Parts A, B, C, D, and E of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by March 31, 2008, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b)(ii) of this paragraph, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter. 
 
wb106186 
M:\legmn\IRAN\Northern Cities Water Supply\Project Agreement (Iran-Guilan) Conformed.doc 
08/11/2005 4:21:00 PM
 
