Page  1
CONFORMED 
COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 4783-IRN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Northern Cities Water Supply and Sanitation Project) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 27, 2005 
 
Page  2
-
3
-
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 4783-IRN 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 27, 2005, between the Islamic Republic of Iran (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B)  
Parts A, B, C, D, and E of the Project will be carried out, with the 
Borrower’s assistance, by the Guilan Water and Wastewater Company (the Guilan Water 
Company), a company established and operating under the laws of the Borrower; and 
Parts F, G, H, I, and J of the Project will be carried out, with the Borrower’s assistance, 
by the Mazandaran Water and Wastewater Company (the Mazandaran Water Company), 
a
company established and operating under the laws of the Borrower; 
 
(C)  
as part of its assistance to the Guilan Water Company and the 
Mazandaran Water Company, the Borrower will make portions of the proceeds of the 
loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) available to the Guilan Water 
Company and the Mazandaran Water Company, as set forth in this Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the following agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
the Guilan Water Company (the Guilan Project Agreement) and between the Bank and 
the Mazandaran Water Company (the Mazandaran Project Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the additional terms wherever used in this Agreement have 
the following meanings: 
Page  4
-
2
-
(a) 
“Department of Environment” and the acronym “DOE” means the 
Borrower’s agency in charge of environmental management at the national level, 
established pursuant to a cabinet ruling dated March 2, 1972, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and  includes any successor to the DOE acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
(b) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the Environmental 
Management Plan furnished to the Bank on March 11, 2005, setting forth, inter alia, the 
measures to be taken during the implementation and operation of the Project to offset or 
reduce adverse environmental impact, including water pollution, industrial pollution and 
wastewater effluents, to levels acceptable to the Bank, as the same may be amended from 
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank; 
 
(c) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” and “FMR” mean each report prepared in  
accordance with Sections 4.02 of the Project Agreements; 
 
(d) 
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the Borrower’s fiscal year, commencing 
March 21 and ending March 20; and Fiscal Years and FYs mean more than one Fiscal 
Year; 
 
(e) 
“Guilan Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and 
the Guilan Water Company of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from 
time to time and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Guilan Project Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“Guilan Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in 
 
Section 2.02 (b) (ii) of this Agreement;  
 
(g) 
“Guilan Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and the Guilan Water Company pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) 
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules to the Guilan Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
 
(h) 
“Land Acquisition Plan” means, collectively, the Abbreviated Land 
Acquisition and Compensation Plans for the cities of  Rasht, Anzali, Sari and Babol 
furnished to the Bank on March 11, 2005, describing the status and procedures of land 
acquisition under the Project; 
 
(i) 
“Mazandaran Project Agreement” means the agreement between the 
Bank and the Mazandaran Water Company of even date herewith, as the same may be 
amended from time to time and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Mazandaran Project Agreement; 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
(j) 
“Mazandaran Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b) (ii) of this Agreement;  
 
(k) 
“Mazandaran Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be 
entered into between the Borrower and the Mazandaran Water Company pursuant to 
Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules to the Mazandaran Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
 
(l) 
“MOE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Energy or any successor 
thereto; 
 
(m) 
“MOU” means the Memorandum of Understanding on Procurement 
dated October 2, 2004, between the Borrower and the Bank; 
 
(n) 
“MPO” means the Borrower’s Management and Planning Organization, 
or any successor thereto; 
 
(o) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated  
April 20, 2005, covering the initial eighteen (18) month period of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02(b) to this Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen (18) month 
periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
 
(p) 
“Project Agreements” means, collectively, the Guilan Project Agreement 
and the Mazandaran Project Agreement (as this term is hereinafter defined); 
 
(q) 
“Resettlement Policy Framework” means the Borrower’s resettlement 
policy framework dated March 11, 2005, for carrying out the Project and may be 
amended from time to time by agreement of the Borrower and the Bank, which sets out, 
inter-alia, the principles and objectives of the Resettlement Policy Framework, the 
institutional and implementation arrangements, the requirements for a resettlement action 
plan, including the eligibility criteria for assistance and rehabilitation entitlements, as 
well as the monitoring and reporting requirements to ensure compliance with the 
provisions of the Resettlement Policy Framework; 
 
(r) 
“Rial” means the currency of the Borrower; 
 
(s) 
“Special Accounts” means, collectively, the Guilan Special Accounts and 
the Mazandaran Special Accounts; 
 
(t) 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreements” means, collectively, the Guilan 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and the Guilan Water Company and 
the Mazandaran Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and  Mazandaran 
Water Company; and 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
(u) 
“Water Companies” means, collectively, the Guilan Water Company and 
the Mazandaran Water Company; each a “Water Company”. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two 
hundred twenty four million United States Dollars (US$224,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
US Dollars four separate special-deposit accounts in a commercial bank, in the names of: 
(i) the Guilan Water Company (two Special Accounts - the Guilan Special Accounts I 
and II); and, (ii) the Mazandaran Water Company (two Special Accounts - the 
Mazandaran Special Accounts I and II), all on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2010, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan,
 
subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. On or promptly after 
the Effectiveness Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
loan account and pay to itself the amount of such fee.  
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourth of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay Commission on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Commission 
Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
 
Page  7
-
5
-
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
“Commission Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first 
Commission Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the 
initial period, each period from and including a Commission 
Payment Date to, but excluding the next following Commission 
Payment Date. 
 
(ii) 
“Commission Payment Date” means any date specified in 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Commission Period, the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars 
for value the first day of such Commission Period (or, in the case 
of the initial Commission Period, for value the Commission 
Payment Date occurring on or next preceding the first day of 
such Commission Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Commission Period: 
(A) three-fourth of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such Commission Period, 
below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR 
Total Spread for each Commission Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the commission rates referred to in this Section, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the commission rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the commission rates applicable 
to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months notice to the Borrower of the new basis. 
The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
 
Section 2.07. Commission and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Page  8
-
6
-
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause each of the Water Companies to 
perform, in accordance with the provisions of their respective Project Agreements, all the 
respective obligations of the Water Companies therein set forth, shall take or cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable each of the Water Companies to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such performance. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause 
the Water Companies to: 
 
(i) 
carry out their obligations in accordance with the provisions of 
this Agreement and the applicable Project Agreements; and  
 
(ii) 
implement the Project in accordance with the Environmental 
Management Plan; the Land Acquisition Plan; the Procurement 
Plan; and the Resettlement Policy Framework, and except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or 
waive any provision thereof if, in the opinion of the Bank, such 
amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project. 
 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works, and consultants’ services, required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreements, as such provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, or shall cause the Water Companies to, update the 
Procurement Plan in accordance with the terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish such update to the Bank not later than twelve (12) months after the date of the 
preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
 
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to the 
Guilan Water Company under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the 
Page  9
-
7
-
Borrower and the Guilan Water Company, under financial terms and conditions identical 
to those governing the Loan. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to the Mazandaran 
Water Company under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the Mazandaran Water Company, under financial terms and conditions 
identical to those governing the Loan.  
 
Section 3.04. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.03(a) 
above, the Borrower shall make available, through the Borrower’s contribution, to the 
Guilan Water Company: (i) the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) such amounts as may be 
needed to finance the Borrower’s contribution to expenditures under Parts B and D of the 
Project.  
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.03(b) above, the 
Borrower shall make available through the Borrower’s contribution, to the Mazandaran 
Water Company: (i) the proceeds of the Loan; and, (ii) such amounts as may be needed to 
finance the Borrower’s contribution to expenditures under Parts F, H and I of the Project.  
 
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive either Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
 
Section 3.06. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the continued 
achievement of the objectives of the Project; and, 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.07. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by each of the Water 
Companies pursuant to Section 2.03 of the respective Project Agreement. 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that the Water Companies maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements, all in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect its operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Water Companies shall: 
 
(i) 
have the respective financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to 
by the Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the 
respective financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or such other period agreed to by the 
Bank), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by 
said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and the audit of such financial statements, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made;  
 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in any 
audit that the Bank may have requested pursuant to paragraph (b) 
of this Section. 
Page  11
-
9
-
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Guilan Water Company to prepare 
and submit to the Bank a satisfactory and acceptable environmental impact assessment 
report regarding the proper collection treatment and disposal of sludge from the three 
wastewater treatment plants at Rasht, Anzali West and Anzali East, together with 
evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, of the financing of the facilities related to sludge 
collection, treatment and disposal. 
 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the environmental impact assessment 
report and the evidence for financing the sludge facilities indicated in sub-section (a) 
above, is furnished to the Bank by no later than September 30, 2006. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
either of the Water Companies shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under its respective Project Agreement; 
 
(b) 
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that either of the Water Companies will be able to perform its obligations under its 
respective Project Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
any law of the Borrower governing the establishment and operations of 
either Water Company shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Water Company in 
question to perform any of its obligations under its respective Project Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and 
 
(b) 
any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur. 
 
Page  12
-
10 -
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Guilan Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed by the 
Borrower and the Guilan Water Company; 
 
(b) 
the Mazandaran Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed by the 
Borrower and the Mazandaran Water Company; and 
 
(c) 
a technical support unit has been established within each of the Guilan 
Water Company and the Mazandaran Water Company with competent staff in adequate 
numbers whose qualifications and experience are acceptable to the Bank. 
 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank: 
 
(a) 
that each of the Project Agreements has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the respective Water Company, and is legally binding upon said Water Company in 
accordance with its terms; and 
 
(b) 
that each of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and the respective Water Company, and is legally binding upon 
the Borrower and said Water Company in accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
Page  13
-
11 -
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance 
 
Davar Avenue 
 
Tehran, Islamic Republic of Iran 
Facsimile:  
 
98 21 39 01 033 or 
 
98
21
39
10 024 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Washington, District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and 
year first above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 
 
By: /s/ Masoud Mozayani 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By: Christiaan J. Poortman 
Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa 
Page  14
-
12 -
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1. 
 The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
(US$)
%
of Expenditures  
to be Financed
(1) 
 
Treatment Works 
 
(a)  Guilan   
(b) Mazandaran   
 
3,380,000 
 
4,510,000 
 
80% 
(2) Civil 
Works 
 
(a)
 
Guilan
 Water 
(i) Rasht Water  
(ii) Anzali Water 
 
(b) Guilan Wastewater 
(i) Rasht Wastewater  
(ii) Anzali Wastewater 
 
(c) Mazandaran Water 
(i) Sari Water  
(ii) Babol Water 
 
(d) Mazandaran Wastewater  
(i) Sari Wastewater 
(ii) Babol Wastewater 
 
43,170,000 
 
4,010,000 
 
48,930,000 
25,060,000 
 
2,590,000 
 
3,445,000 
 
28,360,000 
21,900,000 
 
80% 
 
(3) 
Goods and Equipment  
 
(a)   Guilan  
 
(b)  Mazandaran  
 
1,380,000 
 
1,090,000 
 
100% of foreign    
 
expenditures; 100% of  
 
local expenditures  
 
(ex-factory cost); and 
 
80% of local  
 
expenditures for items  
 
procured locally 
Page  15
-
13 -
 
Category
Amount of the 
Loan Allocated 
in (US$)
%
of
Expenditures  
to be Financed
(4) 
 
Consultant’s services and  
 
training 
 
(a)  Guilan Wastewater 
 
(b)  Guilan Water  
 
(c)  Mazandaran Wastewater
(d)  Mazandaran Water 
 
7,805,000 
2,035,000 
5,501,000 
 
509,000 
 
88% of local expenditures 
 
and 95% of foreign 
 
expenditures 
 
(5) 
 
Project Management Costs 
 
(a)  Guilan  
 
(b)  Mazandaran   
 
1,920,000 
 
1,920,000 
 
90% of all expenditures up 
 
to December 31,2005 and 
 
75% of all expenditures 
 
thereafter 
 
(6) 
 
Front End fee 
 
1,120,000 
 
Amount due under  
 
Section 2.04 of the Loan  
 
Agreement 
 
(7) 
 
Unallocated 
 
15,365,000 
 
TOTAL   
__________ 
224,000,000 
========= 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;  
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Project Management Costs” means expenditures under the 
Project incurred by the Water Companies in relation to office support, office supplies and 
communications, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
Page  16
-
14 -
 
US$10,000,000 may be made in respect of the Project, on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after March 1, 2005. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing 
less than US$250,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than US$5,000,000 
equivalent per contract; (c) for services of individual consultants costing less than 
US$50,000 equivalent per contract; (d) for services of consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract; (e) training; and (f) Project 
Management Costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
 
Page  17
-
15 -
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) enhance the quality of life in the 
Borrower’s four northern cities of Rasht, Anzali, Sari and Babol by: (a) improving the 
reliability of the water supply systems through rehabilitation and extension of the water 
supply networks; (b) improving the health and urban environmental conditions by 
providing wastewater collection services and treatment facilities; (c) contributing to the 
environmental protection of the natural resources of the provinces (especially the Anzali 
Lagoon, an internationally recognized wetland); and (ii) improve the operational 
efficiency and financial sustainability of the Water Companies. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
 
Part A
:
Collection and Treatment of Wastewater in Rasht
1. 
Extending and improving Rasht’s collection network through approximately 
70,000 new house connections, the construction of approximately 560 km of laterals, 
interceptors, and trunk mains, and 16 pump and lift stations in addition to collection 
works.  
 
2. 
Upgrading a wastewater treatment plant under construction with a biological 
nutrient-removal unit, and include other measures to reduce the risk of discharge of 
untreated sewage in the event of temporary plant failure.   
 
3. 
Undertaking a study and an investment program for septage management (to 
address waste from households not connected to the waste-water network). 
 
Part B
:
Improvement of the Water Supply System in Rasht
Improving service provision in Rasht through regulating the pressure and 
availability of water in the distribution network, as well as reduction in losses due to 
leakage through various measures, including rehabilitation and extension of primary and 
secondary distribution piping, additional ground storage, and rehabilitation of two 
existing elevated storage tanks and associate pump stations.  
 
Part C
:
Collection and Treatment of the Wastewater in Anzali
1. 
Extending and improving Anzali’s collection network through: (i) provision of 
approximately 27000 new house connections; (ii) construction of approximately 250 km 
of laterals, interceptors, and trunk mains; and (iii) additional pump and lift stations.  
 
Page  18
-
16 -
 
2. 
Improving Anzali’s waste-water treatment plant by upgrading it with a biological 
nutrient-removal unit, and including measures to eliminate the risk of discharge of 
untreated sewage in the event of temporary plant failure.  
3. 
Constructing the first module of the Ghazian waste-water treatment plant. 
 
4. 
Carrying out an investment program and associated studies for management of 
septage from households that would have not been connected to the waste-water network 
in the first phase. 
 
Part D
:
Improvement of the Water Supply System in Anzali
1. 
Rehabilitating and extending Anzali’s water distribution network with 
approximately 155 km of primary and secondary distribution network.  
 
2. 
Carrying out an investment program to improve operational efficiency and 
reduce unaccounted-for water (including instrumentation for automation, operation and 
maintenance equipment). 
 
Part E
:
Support to the Guilan Water Company
Providing technical assistance to enable the Guilan Water Company to carry out 
its obligations under this Project. 
 
Part F
:
Wastewater Collection and Treatment in Sari
Establishing a new waste-water collection and treatment system for Sari through: 
(i) the provision of approximately 16000 new house connections; (ii) the construction of 
approximately 240 km of laterals, interceptors, trunk mains and outfalls; (iii) 2 pump 
stations; and (iv) the construction of the first module of the Sari wastewater treatment 
plant approximately (23,200 m3/day). 
 
Part G
:
Improvement of the Water Supply System in Sari
1. 
Extending and rehabilitating Sari’s distribution network through: (i) replacement 
of approximately 50 km of existing pipe; (ii) extension of the network with 
approximately 65 km of pipe; and (iii) addition of approximately 85 km of lateral pipes, 
and approximately 5500 new water meters.  
 
2. 
 
Undertaking an investment program and studies to improve operational 
efficiency and reduce unaccounted-for water (including operation and maintenance 
equipment). 
 
Page  19
-
17 -
 
Part H
:
Wastewater Collection and Treatment in Babol
1. 
Strengthening Babol’s waste-water collection and treatment system through:  
(i) the provision of approximately 16300 new house connections; (ii) the construction of 
approximately 130 km of laterals, interceptors, and trunk mains; and (iii) 6 pump and lift 
stations.  
 
2. 
Improving the wastewater treatment plant through the construction of an outfall 
main and facilities to store wastewater in case of emergencies. 
 
Part I
:
Improvement of the Water Supply Network in Babol
1. 
Improving Babol’s water supply network through: , (i) the construction of a 
approximately 20,000 m3 ground reservoir and pumping station; (ii) the replacement of 
approximately 40 km of existing pipe mains; (iii) extension of the network with an 
additional approximately 32 km of mains; and (iv)  approximately 125 km of lateral pipes 
and approximately 4500 water meters.  
 
2. 
Carrying out an investment program (and associated studies) to improve 
operational efficiency and reduce unaccounted-for water (including operation and 
maintenance equipment). 
 
Part J
:
Support for the Mazandaran Water Company
Providing technical assistance to enable the Mazandaran Water Company to 
carry out its obligations under this Project. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2010. 
 
Page  20
-
18 -
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars
)
*
February 15, 2011 
  
9,335,000 
 
August 15, 2011 
  
9,335,000 
 
February 15, 2012 
  
9,335,000 
 
August 15, 2012 
  
9,335,000 
 
February 15, 2013 
  
9,335,000 
 
August 15, 2013 
  
9,335,000 
 
February 15, 2014 
  
9,335,000 
 
August 15, 2014 
  
9,335,000 
 
February 15, 2015 
  
9,335,000 
 
August 15, 2015 
  
9,335,000 
 
February 15, 2016 
  
9,335,000 
 
August 15, 2016 
  
9,335,000 
 
February 15, 2017 
  
9,335,000 
 
August 15, 2017 
  
9,335,000 
 
February 15, 2018 
  
9,335,000 
 
August 15, 2018 
  
9,335,000 
 
February 15, 2019 
  
9,335,000 
 
August 15, 2019 
  
9,335,000 
 
February 15, 2020 
  
9,335,000 
 
August 15, 2020 
  
9,335,000 
 
February 15, 2021 
  
9,335,000 
 
August 15, 2021 
  
9,335,000 
 
February 15, 2022 
  
9,335,000 
 
August 15, 2022 
  
9,295,000 
 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) 
of the General Conditions. 
Page  21
-
19 -
 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program 
 
A. 
Project Coordination and Implementation 
 
1. 
(a) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Water Companies: (i) maintain the 
Environmental Management Plan, the Land Acquisition Plan, the Procurement Plan, and 
the Resettlement Policy Framework in a form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(ii) cause the Water Companies to implement these plans and frameworks in accordance 
with the objectives, policies, procedures, time schedules and other provisions set forth 
therein.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Water Companies refrain from taking 
any action which shall prevent or interfere with the implementation of the Environmental 
Management Plan, the Land Acquisition Plan, the Procurement Plan, and the 
Resettlement Policy Framework. 
 
B. 
Reports and Mid-term Report 
 
1. The 
Borrower 
shall
 
ensure that the Water Companies: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank: (i) commencing March 21, 2006, quarterly reports on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project; and (ii) not later than December 31, 2007, a report, 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by March 31, 2008, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b)(ii) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Bank views on the matter. 
 
Page  22
-
20 -
 
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Accounts 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1(a), 1(b), 2(a)(i),  
2
(a)(ii), 2 (b)(i), 2(b)(ii), 2(c)(i), 2 (c)(ii), 2(d)(i), 2 (d)(ii), 3(a), 3(b), 4(a), 4(b), 4(c), 
4(d), 5(a), and 5(b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time 
to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means in respect of: (i) the Guilan 
Special Account I, an amount equivalent to US$6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account and deposited into the Guilan Special Account I pursuant to 
 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided, however, that, unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
US$2,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account in 
respect of Categories 1(a), 2(b)(i), 2(b)(ii), and 4(a), plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions in respect of Categories 1(a), 2(b)(i), 2(b)(ii), and 4(a), shall be equal 
to or exceed the equivalent of US$10,000,000; (ii) the Guilan Special Account II, an 
amount equivalent to US$ 4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and 
deposited into the Guilan Special Account II pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule; 
provided, however, that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation 
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to US$1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of Categories 2(a)(i), 2(a)(ii), 3(a), 4(b), 
and 5(a), plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of Categories 2(a)(i), 
2(a)(ii), 3(a), 4(b), and 5(a), shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of US$7,000,000; 
(iii) the Mazandaran Special Account I, an amount equivalent to US$4,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Mazandaran Special Account I 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; provided, however, that, unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
US$1,000,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account in 
respect of Categories 1(b), 2(d)(i), 2(d)(ii), and 4(c), plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions in respect of Categories 1(b), 2(d)(i), 2(d)(ii), and 4(c), shall be equal 
to or exceed the equivalent of US$8,000,000; and (iv) the Mazandaran Special Account 
II, an amount equivalent to US$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and 
Page  23
-
21 -
 
deposited into the Mazandaran Special Account II pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Schedule; provided, however, that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to US$300,000 until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of Categories2(c)(i), 2(c)(ii), 
3(b), 4(d), and 5(b), plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of 
Categories 2(c)(i), 2(c)(ii), 3(b), 4(d), and 5(b) shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of US$1,500,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence that a Special Account has been duly 
opened, withdrawals of a Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the said Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the said Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the said Special 
Account of an amount or amounts, which in the aggregate do not exceed the said 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of each such request or requests, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the said 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the said Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the said Special Account at such intervals as 
the Bank shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the said Special Account such amount 
as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the said Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. Each such deposit into the said Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the said Special Account’s eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
 
Page  24
-
22 -
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or  
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will 
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:  
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
respective Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into any 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
Page  25
-
23 -
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6(a), (b), and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
 
