Report No. PIC3178
Project Name                   Morocco-Railway Restructuring Project
Region                         Middle East and North Africa
Sector                         Public Enterprise Reform
Project ID                     MAPA43725
Borrower                       Office National des chemins de fer (ONCF)
Implementing Agency            ONCF
Date This PID                  January 1996
Project Appraisal Date         September 1997
Project Board Date             October 1998
Background
1.   A policy environment conducive to private sector development has
largely been put in place in Morocco. Since the mid-1980s, growth of
private sector exports, particularly in the textile and agro-industries,
has been significant. The Moroccan transport sector plays a key role in
encouraging exports, reducing the cost of imports, and enhancing
prospects for growth in tourism. Ongoing projects financed by the Bank
focus, therefore, on improving port and road transport policies.
2.   The Moroccan railways (ONCF) transport phosphate (about 50- of
revenue), general freight (grain, cement, petroleum products,
fertilizers, sugar; W of revenue), and intercity passengers (t of
revenue). Phosphate transport is important since phosphate is Morocco's
main foreign exchange earner. A significant proportion of rail
infrastructure and equipment, although well maintained, needs to be
rehabilitated. Pensions are paid directly by ONCF (similar to an
operating expense) under specific railway staff rules.
Project Objectives
3.   The main objective of the project is to support the preparation and
the implementation of a restructuring program. The principal items in
the restructuring program are: (a) separation of commercial activities
to be operated in a fully-deregulated environment from public service
obligations; (b) reduction of Government financial support to the
railway sector, to be eventually restricted to compensation for public
service obligations; (c) closing of uneconomic services; (d) divestiture
of non-railway activities (mainly hotels); and (e) contracting out of
railway support activities to the private sector (ballast and sleeper
production, track maintenance, building maintenance, etc.).
Project Description
4.   The proposed operation would finance: (a) consulting services for
the formulation and implementation of the restructuring process; and (b)
rail infrastructure rehabilitation. The investment program concentrates
on necessary track rehabilitation and upgrading and the



renewal/reinforcement of electric traction and telecommunication
systems.
Project Benefits
5.   The proposed project would result in a reduction of Government
subsidies and contribute to improved competitiveness of rail transport.
The economic justification of the proposed investments will be primarily
based on a comparison of costs of road and rail transport and on
improved market responsiveness and efficiency of the railway.
Project Cost and Financing
6.   The cost of the investment program is estimated at US$490 million.
Other costs will be estimated during project preparation. The proposed
Bank loan amounts to US$100 million, while the African Development Bank
would provide US$100 million cofinancing.
Environmental Aspects
7.   The project is proposed for category B.   Rehabilitation works to be
done under the project will only have positive effects on the
environment. A review of environmental aspects of rail workshop
operations will be conducted as part of the project, and methods of
industrial waste disposal will be introduced if required.
Contact Point:            Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 2 -



