Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
Rept N. 8530
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOILE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1297-CHA)
APRIL 18, 1990
Environment, Human Resources
and Urban Development Operations Division
Country Department III
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipient only in the perfonrance of
thdir offcial duties Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1 - Y 1.75
ACADEMIC YEAR
September 1 - August 31
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CAAS         -     Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences
CAS          8     Chinese Academy of Sciences
CAST               Chinese Association for Science and Technology
CNTIC              China National Technical Import Corporation
MAAF               Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fishery
MOA          =     Ministry of Agriculture
MOE          =     Ministry of Education
NRRI         8     National Rice Research Institute
PC                 Project Commission
PO                 Project Office
SAC          3     State Agricultural Commission
SSTC         3     State Science and Technology Commission



VOR O0FIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ofie of Du.tcU.efle'hI
April 18, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:  Project Completicn Report:  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA -
Agricultural Educ&tion and Research Proiect (Cr. 1297-CHA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report: People's Republic of China - Agricultural
Education and Research Project (Credit 1297-CHA)" prepared by the
Borrower with a section on Bank Observations prepared by the Asia
Regional Office. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restrctd dibution and may be used by reipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CINA
AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1297-CHA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pane No.
Preface  .... ,....... 0   .00           ....... 04..........                 ............           i
Basic Data Sheet  * ..........            .       **.........*0000        ............              ii
Evaluation Summary  {.*....000.   .....   .....                                                      v
Bank Observations  ............................ **............ O***.                             viii
I.      INTRODUCTION  .............  ...........               *............. ..........         I
Socio-Economic Setting  ............. ............... .*..                               1
Education Development Strategy and Issues  .......  ........                             I
II.      PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL                          ......        2
Origins of the Project  ....... .... ... ...... ... .......... .                         2
Credit Effectiveness  ...... **   ................* ...........                          3
Description of the Project                      .............................            3
Components  ...................................................                          4
Start-Up  ...........................................* * *                 .** .*        5
Amendments to Legal Agreement  ......                    ....................
Project Total Investment  ... ... ..  ..... ....                     .... ..5
Disbursement  ...........** *........  .. ***tO.......                 ....*             6
III.       IMPLEMENTATION                                             ..............                6
Civil Works  . ...........................................                               6
Equipment and Furniture  ................................                                7
Technical Assistance  (Including Overseas Training)  .....                               7
Covenants  of the Credit Agreement   ....................                                8
IV.      INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS  PERFORMANCE  ....  . .............                           8
Project Organization and Management  ....................                                8
V.        PROJECT  IMPACT   * ..........*...#* ............ *.* *.........                         9
Specialist Service  ....9*.........                ....*.        ...  ......             9
Equipment   ...................              . . . ..          ...........             10
Newly Built or Renovated Laboratories  .................                               10
Benefits  ......... . . ....                ...... . ........        . **              11
Enrollment and Output of Project  Institutions  ........                             11
Utilization of Laboratories  .......... ......                        ......           13
R search                                                                               13
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (contd.)
Studies and Preparation of Future Projects  .............    16
Project Implementation .... .............. .......... .... .  16
VI.     IDA PERFORMANCE .... ... ***#**      ............ .....      17
Project Generation ........ ............................ .   17
1. Beueficiary Colleges and Institutes ........ O..* ........    19
2. Tracer Studies - Measure of Fit Between
Specialization and Jobs Offered ... ...................    20
3. Tracer Studies - Ease of Adaptation to New Job .........      21
4. Project Indicators and Targets ........ *................     22
ATTAC HT I: COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER   ...................         23



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1297-C)A)
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Agricultural
Education and Research Project in the People's Republic of China, for which
Credit 1297-CMA in the amount of SDR 67.8 million (US$75.4 million) was
approved on November 2, 1982. The Credit was closed on March 31, 1989,
with the final disbursement on September 30, 1989.
The PCR was prepared In mid-1988 by a team from the Project Office
in the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fishery (MAAF),
drawing on data provided by the 18 project supported institutions, as well
as the report of a team of consultants who undertook a three-week review of
project implementation. IDA supervision missions comented on early drafts
of the PCR. The Basic Data Sheet, Evaluation Sumary and Bank Observations
were prepared by the Environment, Human Resources and Urban Development
Operations Division, Country Department III in the Asia Region.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower and its agencies for comment in
January 1990. Their telexed reply is reproduced as Attachment I.



2 o
I o
jX i                                 Iii tg                                                 1! t        S
gu           - ,                                       l21N
50~ 85                                              - g§ffffff3E§_       - -:}};|t1  i ;;gi;7
- Rs                                     -*1 0  }e.*..    -                       5,.   YY|5fi]X
,,3, illl Z1Il!  zitil   1  !11tl }1 



- Hii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC O0 CHINA
AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1297-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.       The project was initiated in early 1981 by the State Agricultural
Comission (SAC) which established a Project Leadership Team, a Project
Committee and a Specialist Expert Committee to conduct a feasibility study,
formulate the project, and complete a background paper. A plan for the
establishment of the National Rice Research Institute (NRRI) was also
completed and its key elements were incorporated into the project as a sub-
component. The overall project proposal was finalized by SAC in September
1981. Ir. October a World Bank appraisal team visited China, followed by
negotiations in April 1982. The Credit Agreement was signed on November
16, 1982 and the Credit became effective on February 2, 1983. A project
implementation period of five years was estimated at Appraisal with a
closing date of June 30, 1988. The Closing Date of the Credit Account was
extended to December 1988, and finally to March 31, 1989, with the final
disbursement on September 30, 1989.
Proiect Objectives. Contents and Costs
2.       The US$75.4 million credit (67.8 million SDR equivalent) was
provided for this Agricultural Education and Research Project to:
(a) improve the quality of education and research at the project
Institutions (11 universities and six research institutes),
as well as increase their overall output through expansion of
enrollment and research capacity;
(b) support the establishment of a new National Rice Research
Institute;
(c) expand postgraduate programs;
(d) provide academic training of specialists, and foreign lan-
guage training of students; and
(e) purchase laboratory equipment, library books and essential
research and audio-visual equipment.
3.       The total estimated cost of the agreed project was US$201.6
million, of which the Credit amount equivalent to SDR 67.8 million com-
prised 37.4Z.   The amount of Government financing was expected to be



- iv -
US$126.2 million equivalent, at a prevailing exchange rate of Yuan 1.75 to
the US dollar.   Total cost at Project Completion was US$184.4 million,
about 8.51 lower than the appraisal estimate.
Implementation Experience and Results
4.       In general, the educational objectives of the project were satis-
factorily met.  Total student enrollment in project institutions reached
28,992 undergraduate (versus an appraisal target of 23,500) and 2,734
graduate students (versus a target of 1,900), increases over target of 23%
and 432, respectively.
5.       While the Technical Assistance component was implemented, it had
limited impact as all lecturing was undertaken through interpreters who,
for the most part, lacked tie level of cou_nad of the English language that
was needed for effectiveness.   Thirty-seven staff/years of specialist
services (academic and language training) were planned at appraisal but
55.3 stafflyears comprising 50 for language trainicS and 5.3 for academic
training were implemented.
6.       The agreed project included 389 overseas fellowships totalling 720
staff/years to strengthen staff capability in the agricultural sciences.
At the time of completion the, number of fellows sent abroad for training
was 1,425, of whom 421 went for advanced studies, 377 for M.S. degrees, 77
for PhDs., 421 on study tours and 113 on managerial tours. Those who have
already returned are teacbing advanced courses and conducting advanced
research, thus contributing to qualitative and quantitative improvement in
teaching and research, although only a little over one third of the
trainees sent overseas had returned at the time of completion.   many
trainees who were sent abroad for master level degrees have been officially
encouraged to continue to PhD levels and, thereby, prolong their stay.
7.       Civil works were completed on a scale well above the scope of the
appraisal estimates. The agreed project provided for the construction of
new buildinags covering a total floor space of 375,000 m2 and rehabilitation
of 36,600 mZ of existing buildings while 693,000 m2 of new construction and
42,606 m2 of rehabilitation were completed representing increases of 66?
and 132, respectively.  Construction at 16 project institutions was com-
pleted by the eand of 1988. Work on the main buildings and annexes of the
National Rice Research Institute was 911 complete by June 1988 and reached
1001 of target by October 1989. A total of 31,170 m2 was constructed at
NRR using PRC government funds.
8.       The construction work is of good quality and the buildings are
suited to pedagogical requirements. All equipment (excluding NM!) was
installed in good time, and most of it was delivered after the buildings
were completed.   Laboratory equipment is used and properly maintained.
Utilization of the buildings is satisfactory wlth respect to laboratories
provided under the project.
9.       The project provided US$52.4 milllon for the purchase of 8,109
pieces of equipment, most of which was purchased by ICB. Equipment selec-
tion was initiated in project-supported institutions and finalized by a



conmittee of scientists, centrally. By mid-1987, 942 of the equipment had
been procured. The cost of books and other educational materials procured,
proved more costly than assumed at appraisal.
10.      Studies.  Two studies on agrlcultural research and manpower were
completed and submltted to the Bank. The study on agricultural research
concentrated on one province and provided in-depth analysis of the agri-
cultural researcb situation. Although the Association would have preferred
a nation-wide study, the completed study proved valuable in guiding the
formulatLon of the Second Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 1516-CMA).
The Agricultural Manpower Study was also concentrated on one province
(J6angsu) and analyzed manpower issues in detail.   The Association made
some suggesti;uaw for broadoning the study during its data collectlon and
analysis period, but the investigators were unable to expand the scope of
the study beyond the original terms of reference. The manpower study did
not have as much impact as the Agricultural Research Study, but did shed
some light on agricultural manpower numbers, specLalizations, age profiles
and deployment in one province.
II.     A two-part tracer study (Annexes 2 and 3), whiLch measured the
closeness of flt of undergraduate degrees wlth jobs offered and the ease
with whilch new graduates adapted to their jobs, was conducted by five
project supported colleges. The study indicated that most graduates (781)
felt that jobs offered matched or closely Batched thelr specialization and
were either satisfied with the jobs offered or were prepared to take the
jobs. A majorLty (871) adapted to the jobs immediately or withiLn a period
of one or two Years.
12.      Compliance with Credit Agreement covenants was satisfactory.
Institutlonal PArformance
13.      The overall management responsibliLty for the proj.ct was vested
ln the Ministerial Coordination Committee (PMC) whilch represented the
Ministries of Agriculture, Forestry, Water Resource and Electric Power and
State Meteorology Administration.   The actual project implementation was
undertaken by the Project Office (PO) under the Bureau of Education of the
Mlnistry of Agriculture. The PO Director was Chairman of PMC and Director
of the Bureau of Education. At the level of project institutions, corres-
ponding POs establlshed under their respective Bureaus of Education were
responsible for project Implementation. The increased responsibilities of
these POs necessitated the strengthening and training of local staff.
IZmact and SustainabilitX
14.      The project was successful i., fulfilling the objectives stated at
appraisal and project benefits are sustainable.  Success includes, among
other things, timely Implementation of construction of physical facilities,
purchase of equipment and books and acquLsition of expert services, the
expansion of enrollment capacity of colleges, upgrading of teachers and



- vi -
research personnel, Improvement of teaching quality, upgrading the quality
and level of research and establiabment of an effective project management
system.
15.      New disciplines have now beeo  introduced in the curricula of the
colleges which have been further etrengthened by supporting courses in
computer tecbhology and foreign languages.  The quality of teaching has
generally improved through the Introduction of a new academic credit
system, computerized course planning systems and improved teaching methods
and thesis writing.
16.      Research programs in the project-supported resesrch institutions
and colleges have been stimulated and facilitated by the provision of newly
equipped laboratories, trained personnel aud increased contact with thb
international academic and research commuiniry. This has resulted in signi-
ficant increases in the type and scale of research (subjects) undertaken at
the national, ministerial and provincial levels.
Findines and Lessons
(a) A comprehensive and thorough feasibility study is a pre-
requisite to a sound and realistic project design which can
be successfully Implemented.   Effective cooperation ams
project officials and experts from IDA, other related inter-
national agencies and the project institutions of the
Borrower is also a necessary pro-condition for successful
implemetation.
(b) The quality of equipment purceased should not be compromised
by cost considerations.  Instead, an "appropriate purchasing
process' with detailed technical specifications should be
developed to encourage international competitive bidding,
leading to the purchase of quality products at reasonable
prices.
(c) In order to ensure the quality of items delivered, contracts
for equipment should include controls and penalties.
(d) To facilitate and expedite effective project implementation,
the need for qualified Project Office staff trained in
management and finance cannot be overemphasized.
(e) To maximize the effective use of expert services, proper
interpreters in the specialized fields should be made
available.
(f) To fully utilize the talent and capacity of trainees when
they return home upon completion of advanced training, both
the necessary additional equipment, facilities, space and
budgetary support should be provided in advance of their
return;



- vii -
(g)  Project supported inst.tutions need to agree in advance with
Government on Issues such as entrance ascore requirements,
total Or -' -^nt targets and the introduction of new disci-
plines; Ono
(h) Periodical reviews are necessary during implemeatation to
enable adjustments to be made in the project.   The final
adjustment should take place in sufficient time to allow
needed implementation of changes required.
Leossons Lernt bv the Association
17.     With good project dosign and mnageament and careful supervision,
an institution building and rehabilitarlug project can, In a relatively
short period, expand and update infrastructure, Increase both quantity and
quality of equipment, provide training, strengthen supporting service and
measurably improve key educational indicators (Annex 4).
18.      In the case of China, which was new to the Association's
Agricultural and Zducation Sectors, staff continuity of appraisal and post
appraisal personnel during the supervision phase was helpful in fostering
good relations with the PO and enabled the Association to react quickly
when added inputs of assistance (for procurement) were required;
19.      On-site supervision of beneficiary institutions provided added
insights into project effectiveness and its impact outside the project;
20.      Language instruction for candidates chosen for overseas training
was a key project feature and enabled trainees to be accepted into high
quality institutions with ainimal difficulty.   This intensive language
training facility was established and operated by foreign specialists at
two locations. There is no doubt that this component played an important
role in the overall success of the project.
21.      Project design should have pressed for placement of candidates for
higher degrees in a larger number of countries. This would have allowed
for exposure to a broader range of ldeas from many differont institutions.
22.      The association and the MAAF should have invested more effort in
explaining the lnstLtution building nature of the project investment,
especially to Government economec planners, thereby minimlzing the percep-
tion that the project bad procured too much overly sophisticated equipment
which was underutilized.



- viiL -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
AGRiCULTURAL EDUCATION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1297-CMA)
BANK OBSERVATIONS
The objectives of the Agricultural Education and Research Project
were to improve the quality of teaching and research, expand enrollment and
research capacity of selected universities, and strengthen the organization
and management of resources.  Eleven colleges and universities and six
research institutions would be assisted and a new National Rice Research
Institute (NRRI) would be established.  Fellowships, language training,
procurement of equipment and support materials, development of postgraduate
programs, and the construction of new laboratories, libraries, and teaching
space would be the main components.
Proiect Costs, FinncinZ and Disbursements
IDA Credit 1297-CMA for SDR 67.8 million (US$75.4 million
equivalent), approved on November 2, 1982, was expected to finance about
37S of project costs, the remainder to be financed by Government. Actual
project costs were about 91.5S of estimated, US$184.4 million actual versus
US$201.6 million estimated (see Table 1).   Government exceeded its
estimated yuan contribution from 221 million to 301 million, largely
attributable to currency fluctuations and a construction program, which
exceeded appraisal estimates in terms of volume and increased costs of
construction materials. The approximately 8.5Z drop in total project costs
was attributable to the fluctuation in exchange rates between the US dollar
and the yuan. The IDA credit financed approximately 402 of project costs.
which were calculated using actual exchange rates prevailing during project
implementation. Cumulative disbursements were ahead of appraisal estimates
during the first four years of project implementation but procurement
difficulties outside of project management eontrol slowed the disbursement
of the final US$0.6 million of credit funds until mid-1989. The closing
date was extended from June 30, 1988 to March 31, 1989 to accommodate this
delayed procurement. Allocation of credit proceeds is shown in Table 1.
Imulementation
The project with seventeen beneficiary institutions plus the new
National Rice Research Institute provided the management unit known as the
Project Office with a difficult task of coordination and supervision. In
addition, as this was the Bank's first agricultural education subsector
venture In China, the Bank's regulations pertaining to procurement of goods
and services also presented the implementing agency with a situation
whereby they ha4 to educate themselves, negotiate with government procure-
ment agencies and become familiar with international competitive bidding.



- IX -
Articles III and IV of the Development Credit Agreement contained
a number of covenanto relating to project management, procurement, hiring
of technical assistance, audits, studies and the operation and maintenance
of facilities and equipment provided under the project.   One of the
covenants proved difficult to completely fulfill, namely the employment of
specialist services  (Article III, Section 3.02).   Project management
reported poor impact by a number of short-term experts, who it was felt did
not coimunicate well or who could not be provided with effectlve trans-
lators. As project implementation proceeded, increasing use was made of
local speclalists or overseas specialists who spoke Chinese.
Project Office performance was comendable.  Contacts were estab-
lished and continuously updated with the beneficlary institutions and
strenuous efforts were made to meet the Bank's reporting requirements and
implementation procedures.
Proiect Impact
The project was timed to inject new infrastructure, equipment and
trained people into the void created by the cultural revolution and to
improve selected key educational indicators.   These objectives were
successfully achieved in the project implementation period and continued in
a follow-on Second Agricultural Education Project (Lu. 2444-CHA, Cr. 1500-
CHM).
Conclusions
The project was well Implemented and met all major objectives in a
timely manner.  The number and location of beneficiary institutions from
multiple Ministries and agencies was difficult to manage but the PO did a
creditable job in meeting targots for construction, procurement and
training.  Project/Association relationships were good due to the con-
tinuity of appraisal and post appraisal staff ln later supervision
missions.
The project funded the purchase of baslc, intermediate and
advanced level teachlng and research equlpment for use by undergraduates,
graduate students and teaching and research staff. Procurement, especially
in 1984 and 1985, was effective and large volumes of equipment arrived at
institutions where, in some instances, buildings to house the equipment
were not yet fully constructed or where teaching staff to man the equipment
were stlll away on training courses. Observers from government planning
agencies interpreted this temporary situation as procurement excess, where-
by equipment which was too sophisticated was lying ldle and in danger of
deterioration. Frequent Bank supervision of project supported institutions
at all levels showed that these conclusions were, for the most part,
inaccurate and, as implementation proceeded, universities, colleges and
research institutes began to Licorporate the equipment into new and revised
curricula led by returning staff members who had acquired new skills
abroad.
Most project indicator targets were met and/or exceeded. Where
targets were not fully met, achievement showed much improvement ever the
1980-81 base data.



PROJECT COMPLUTION REPORT
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION AND RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1297-CMA)
I. INTRODUCTION
Socic-Economic Setting
1.1      Agriculture is the backbone of China's national economy and the
key to the development of strategy of the country. It provides sustenance
to over one billion people and the source of income for 160 million farm
families while accounting for 35Z of the country's GDP. Out of the 960
million ha of China's land area, only about 137 million ha are arable.
Nearly half of the arable land ls irrigated. Farming systems are intensive
with large inputs of labor, chemical and organic fertilizers and water.
The intensive system of food production, carried out largely on household-
managed farms allows china to meet the basic food requirements of its popu-
lation. Thus, the predominance cf agriculture including crops, livestock,
forestry and fisheries has a definite and positive influence on the
Government's decision to devote a substantial part of its resources to the
development of the sector which is now faced with the challenge of the
combined effect of the population presseure (increasing by about 10 million
annually), the limited available land, the rise of people's standard of
living and the ever increasing demand for raw agricultural materials for
industry. However, in the face of such demand the level of agricultural
productivity is still considered low. Moreover, the land area under culti-
vation will not expand as expected increases are offset by lands converted
to non-fatu uses. This will call for, amongst other things, accelerated
agricultural productivity through the introduction of advanced technology
along with improved management and labor skills.   In this respect, the
necessary prerequisites include expansion and improvement of the agricul-
tural education and training system, with priority given to the training of
agricultural professionals and technicians, including extension service
personnel, rapid development of agricultural research, increasing the
volume of improved agricultural inputs as well as changing people's
attitude towards the production forces involving modern innovations and
practices.
Education Develoument Strateev and Issues
1.2      The Government strategy in agricultural development includes
promoting agricultural education and research by Improving, strengthening
and expanding the programs of the Institutions of higher learning and
research so that they might produce the level and type of trained manpower
that would help the country to meet the increasing demand for food and
agricultural raw materials.



- 2 -
1.3      At the time when the Agricultural Zducation and Research project
was conceived there were two major constraints in the broad area of agri-
cultural sciencess the shortage of trained manpower in the agrlcultural
sciences and the inadequacy of research output In thls field. Maln weak-
nesses identLfLed as causing these constraints weres
(a) poor quality teaching and research resulting from insuffi-
cLent and obsolete equipment, deficiencLes in the academlc
qualifications of teacehag/research staff, and narrowly
conceived currlcula;
(b) low output of graduates and volume of research, attributable
in large part to inadequate and substandard space and lack of
postgraduate programs; and
(c) inefficLent organization and management of resources at both
national and instLtutional levels arising from weaknesses li
planning ia the manpower and research areas and from lack of
eVxperience In modern management methods.
In order to redress the situation specific proposals were
made to:
(a) expand the capaclty of key universltLes/colleges and research
institutes wlth a view to increasing their output of trained
manpower;
(b) improve the qualLty and effLciency of agrlcultural education
and research programs;
(c) assist the agricultural educatlon and traLniLg system in
meeting the manpower requirements of the sector; and
(d) increase the range of specializations in agrlcultural produc-
tion to satLsfy speclflc umapower demand in the diversLfLed
fields of productLon.
II   PROJECT IDENTIPICATION. PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
Orinins of the Proiect
2.1      The project was Initiated in earljr 1981 by the State Agricultural
Commission (SAC) which established a Project Leadership Team, a Project
Com4ittee and a Speclalist Expert Commlttee to conduct a feasibility study,
formulate the project, and complete a background paper. A plan for the
establishment of a National Rice Research Institute (DRRI) was also com-
pleted, although a decision had not been reached on whether to seek World
Bank assistance for lts constructlon, equlpment and staff training. Late



- 3 -
in project appraisal it was agreed that key elments, including equipment
and advanced training, for NRRI be incorporated as a subcomponent into the
project. The project request was finalized by SAC in October 1981. In the
same month an IDA appraisal team visited China. This team was composed of
specialists in the fields of agricultural education, agricultural research,
computers, and economics. They discussed the scope of the proposal with
the persons who had formulated the project.   In 1982 the Goverment was
reorganized and the State Agricultural Comoission was superseded by several
Ministries. A managerial office for the project was set up in the Ministry
of Agrlculture, Animal Husbandry and Fishery (MAAF).  The MAAF Project
Office (PO) coordinated the project throughout its implementation. At the
same tile corresponding project offices were set up in the Mianistry of
Forestry (MOF), the Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power (EWREP)
and the State Meteorology Administration (SMA). The Credlt Agreement was
signed on November 16, 1982 and the Credit declared effective on February
2, 1983.
2.2      The project proposed to assist 11 agricultural teaching institu-
tlons, six agricultural research institutes and the OMR. They are listed
in Attachment I.
Credit Effectiveness
2.3      The proposed Credit was negotiated in April 1982 and approved in
govember 1982. The Credit Agreement was signed on November 16, 1982. It
became effective on February 2, 1983. Project implementation was intended
to cover the five-year period to the end of 1987. The total amount of this
credit was SDR 67.8 million, equlvalent to US$75.4 milllon.  The allocation
of Credlt pi tceeds at appraisal was among four categories and covered the
following items:    equipment and books (US$48.54 mllion); training
(US$13.96 million); specialist services (US$0.91 mllion); language train-
ing (US$2.2 million); project preparation (US$1.6 million); management
(US$0.2 mllion), with US$8.0 million unallocated.
Descr4ption of the Proiect
2.4      ObjectLves and Scope.  In support of the Government's program of
strengthening higher education and research in agricultural sciences, the
project was designed to:
(a) improve the quality of teaching and research;
(b)   expand enrollment and increase research capacity of selected
universities; and
(c) strengthen the organization and management of resources.
It was to assist 11 universities and seven research institutions includlng
the establishment of the new National Rice Research Institute. The project
included the academic training of specialists, language training of stu-
dents, procurement of essential research instruments, computers, library
and audio-visual equlpment and development of postgraduate programs.



- 4 -
2.5      Specifically the project was expected to assist the project
institutions:
(a) to improve the quality of teaching by:
(i) implemeting a program of overseas fellowships and study
tours for faculty and staff;
(it) arranging for visits of expatriate specialists; and
(iti) providing necessary modern scientific equipment, books
and materials;
(b) to expand enrollment and research capacity by:
(i) rehabilitating facilities and constructing new dormi-
tories, classroom and laboratories; and
(it) developing new programs at the post-graduate level;
(c) to strengthen the organization and mnagement of resources in
agricultural education bys
(i) arranging overseas training programs for administrators,
librarians and computer center directors; and
(ii) providing foreign specialist services in the management
field.
C-omponents
2.6      The project was expected to be izmplemented over the five-year
period 1982-87 and at Credit Signature comprised the following elements:
(a) Staff develoument. Strengthening professional qualifications
of teaching and research staff by providing 633 overseas
fellowships (41 for doctoral studies, 147 for masters
degrees, 201 for short-term (six months) advanced study and
244 for study tours of two-six months).
(b)  Sgecialist services.   Seven years of services for foreign
lecturers and 30 years of services of experts in languaga
training.
(c) Eau4ament.
(i) Laboratory equipment and instruments,
(ii) computers;
(iii) llbrary and audio-visual equipment;
(iv) books and journals; and
(v) laboratory supplies;



- 5 -
(d)  Xxtansion of space.  For exppnsion of enrollment and research
capacity, the construction oI 375,000 w2 of new space at 60
eftes Oad remodeling of an additional 33,600 m2 of space at
15 sites;
(e)  Develooment of most-araduate uroarams*  The development of
post-graduate programs and projects, and a four-fold increase
in post-graduate enrollment;
(f) Institutlonal management. Improvement of resource organiza-
tlon and managemnt for better management of existLig human
and physical resources;
(g) Assistina the establlshment of VRW.
(i) Conversion of 450 ha of rice land (near Hangzhou, Zhejlang
province) lnto an experimental farm, constructlon of
107,000 =2 of new space and remodeling 5,000 m2 of exlst-
ing facilities, including laboratories, greenhouses, germ-
plasm bank, workshops, storage, offlces and dormitories;
and
(Li) provision of fellowships for degree students, study tours,
and foreign specialists (a total of some 86 persons).
(h) Undertaking studles on research and manpower, which would
contrLbute to the preparatlon of future projects and a tracer
study to measure the closeness of fit between degree specia-
lizations and jobs offered to new degree holders.
Start-Up
2.7      The project was started February 1983 and, due to lack of experi-
ence on tho part of staff, moved slowly at fLrst.   However, after six
months, administration was running smoothly. Twenty people manned the P0:
2 senior and 6 junior managers wlth 12 assistants. Due to the need to have
staff with the right technical background in the P0 the Ministries of
Forestry, Water Resources and Electric Power, the State Meteorology
AdmLnLstration and all project management groups in the assisted institu-
tions were requested to send staff to the P0 on short-term asslgnments.
Thls led to frequent turnover and hurt efficiency.
Amendments to Lemal Aereement
2.8      In all,  five amendments to the Legal Agreement were made,
para 6.6, to enable the procurement process to proceed smoothly.  One of
the agreements, August 1987, allowed for the adjustment of funds between
the categories increasing those for equipment and books, fellowships and
training and reducing that for specialist services.
Project Total Investment
2.9      Tho estimated project investment was US$201.6 million comprlsing
an IDA Credit of $75.4 million and a government contribution of US$126.2



- 6 -
million equivalent Ln local curreney.  After implementation the total
investmet amounted to US$184.4 or 8.SZ l.es than estimated. Government's
share fell from US$126.2 million to US$111.2 oillion largely due to the
fluctuation In the exchange rate between the yuan and the US dollar.
Table 1 gives details.
Takle Is TOTAL PROJECT INVESTMENT
(US$ Million)
Ampraisal Estimates (USS)Ia   Actual Inestment (USS)
Categories         Goveroment   Bank    I        Government 1k Bank      I
Civil works             85.3        -       42        81.6         -        44
Zquipment and Books    29.8        50.5    40         25.2        52.4      42
Expert services
end management        4.2        5.4      5         4.4         2.7      4
Training                 1.6       16.3      9         -          18.2      10
Unallocated              5.3        3.2      4         -           -
Total /a          126.2       75 4   100        111.2        73.3  100.0
Ia  Appraisal Estimates based on an exchange rate of US$1 - Y1.75
lb   Government livestment calculated using actual exchange rate during
implementation.
Disbursement
2.10     The project was expected to be totally disbursed by the extended
accounts closing date of September 30, 1989.  SDR 67.4 million (out of
DSDR 67.8) bad been disbursed by March 31, 1989, the extended closing date.
III. IMELEHENTATION
Civil Works
3.1      Tota"  constructien exceeded projected cost and volume.   The
project constructed 692,844 m2 new buildings and rehabilitated 42,600 m2 of
existing buildings as compared to 481,717 and 39,399 m2 estimated at
appraisal. Most of the construction was completed by did-1988 when data
was collected for the completion report.
3.2      The project provided for the construction of 22 new laboratories
for the 17 institutions.   They were all completed according to the
appraisal plan. Twelve additional laboratories were built. The project
also provided for the renovation of 67 laboratories for basic and
specialized courses. They have all been completed according to appraisal
plan. Fourteen extra laboratories have been renovated.



3.3      Conattuction of the National Rice Research Institute (NRRI)
remained behind schedule and the Institute was finally completed in October
1989 finnced by the Government.  Total construction at NRRI, including
roads, ditches, a bridge and the research eomplex was 50,520 m2.
Eautment and Furniture
3.4      The Project Office prepared all equipment and furniture lists in
consultation with the corresponding project offices of the project Institu-
tions. In all, 8,109 pieces of various equipment and Instruments were
purchased, of which 1,560 were procured by dlrect purchase and the rest by
ICB procedures. All equlpment earmarked for the 11 collUges had been
delivered and Installed by the end of 1987. The cost of books and other
educational materlal was US$898,000.
3.5      With the exceptlon of a few ltems, all equlpment performed satis-
factorlly. Several institutlons recelved computers which were of sub-
standard quallty, and had trouble repalring them before they could be put
to use. fowever, the defectlve ltems of equlpment were estimated to be
below 21 of the total.
Technlcal Assistance (Includina Overseas Trainina)
3.6      The techbical asslstance component of the project was satlsfac-
torlly implemented. As of June 30, 1988, 875 partlcipants had been sent
abroad for high-level academic training, exceeding appraisal estimates by
94Z. Many students secured additional support from the host instltutions
after completing their initial studies, whilch freed more funding for
addltional persons to be transferred to fellowship allotments as shown
below:
Table 2s OVERSEAS TRAINING PROGRAK
Actual        Actual 1 of
June 30        planned
Cateaorv           Ai,nraisal           1988           number
Ph.D.                 41                   77             187
M.Sc.                147                  377             256
Advanced
learnlng la         201                 421              209
Total           389                 875              224
la   More participants were expected to be sent abroad during the
extended project period to March 31, 1989.
3.7      In addition the number of participants sent abroad on managerlal
and professional study tours was 437, which is 161 more than planned at
appraisal, involving a total of 566 man-mouths. Included were 113 adminis-
trators from project supported inostitutions who participated in management,
teaching, currlculum and graduate and undergraduate training study tours.



- 8 -
3.8      To improve library services in project supported institutions,
seven staff from colleges and universities went abroad, one for a master's
program and six for short duration visits.   In addition, 12 staff from
research institutions participated in library science studies, three for
master's degrees, nine for short-term visits. A further seven candidates
were sent abroad for information science studies, one for a PhD, five for
master's degrees and one for short-term study.
3.9      The services of 69 international experts were acquired for 5.3
rn-years, 1.7 man-years less thal  agreed at appraisal.   The appraisal
report included 30 man-years of language teachers.  This was exceeded by
some 66Z or 20 man-years.
Covenants of the Credit Azreement
3.10     Government fulfilled the conditions of the Credit Agreement,
although the foreign technical assistance item proved difficult to
implement (pars 6.6).
IV. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PERFORHANCE
Prolect Oraanization and Management
4.1      Project management was overseen by the Ministerial Coordination
Comission composed of ministers and agency heads of NAAF, MOF, MWREP and
SHA. Under this commission was the Project Management Committee (PMC)
composed of 11 members from Ministries and Agencies involved in the
project:
(a) Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fishery;
(b) Ministry of Forestry;
(c)  Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power;
(d) State Meteorology Administration;
(e) Chinese Academy of Agricultural Science, NAAF;
(f) Bureau of Land Reclamation, MAAF;
(g) Department of Education, MAAF;
(h) Department of Science and Technology, MAAF;
(i) Bureau of Aquatics, MUAF;
(j) the Survey and Planning Institute, MOF; and
(k)  the Foreign Affairs Department, MWREP.



- 9 -
4.2      Project management and operation was under the authority of the
PMC.   The Project Office (PO) of MAAF, in turn =aaged the individual
project components through the 18 Project Management Offices (PMO).  The
project management structure is in Attachment It.
4.3      In addition, frequent advisory services were provided by the
Institute of International Development and Education in Agriculture and
Life Sciences (IDEALS). IDEALS has the resources of more than 250 experts
in the area of agricultural education and research and is able to undertake
various assignments.
V. PROJECT IMPACT
5.1      The project assisted in strengthening the professional qualifica-
tionr of the teaching and research staff at the 11 agricultural colleges
and six research institutes.   In this respect the .ollege and research
staff members sent abroad for training comprised 77 PhD., 377 M.Sc. and 421
Advanced Learning candidates, giving a total of 875, about 2241 above the
appraisal target of 389. The participants' performance under fellowships
was considered generally good, some with outstanding achievements in
research work. About 200 of the candidates sent overseas under the project
were able to secure financial support from private sources and extend their
stay, thus releasing project funds to train additional post-graduate
students abroad. Up to June 30, 1988, 268 students (30.61 of total) had
completed their studies and returned to China; among them there were 10
PhD., 35 M.Sc. and 223 visiting scholars, all of whom are now serving in
the teaching and research posts for which they were originally trained.
The lengthened study periods of the 200 graduates indicated earlier has
delayed their posts from being filled. Nevertheless, many of the returned
fellows were able to start new courses and research areas, thus contrib-
uting significantly to the quality and variety of education and research
program.
5.2      Four hundred and thirty-seven administrators and leading staff
members in various disciplines of agricultural education and research
participated in managerial and professional study tours, (162 more than
estimated).   The study tours, for which 566 man-months were utilized,
enabled the staff to raise their level of competence and effectiveness as
reflected in their work output.
Spocialist Service
(a) International Experts. As of June 30, 1988, of the 84 months
of expert services included in the project, 64 months (76.22)
involving 60 experts had been utilized.  In regard to the
effectiveness of the experts' contributions, 46 (76.71)
proved to be satisfactory while the rest were considered
marginal.   The main reason for weak performance was
attributed to difficulty in coanmication because of the lack
of proper interpreters in the specialized fields, as well as
inadequate advance preparation.  The esperts made notable



- 10 -
contributions by helpLag to establish research units in
veterinary toxicology and patbology of fisb and the preven-
tion of marine fish diseases.
(b) Languawe Teachors. Fifty mam-years .f technical assistance
were used to acquire the services of 54 languago teachers
under contract from Bell Educational Trust of Britain which
also assisted in the establishment of two English language
centers in Wuaha Central China Agricultural College and
Beijing Forestry College.   In these two language centers,
during the period 1983-87, the 54 teachers traited 1,007
students (of whom 923 were sent abroad for studies), 22
English secretaries and 38 English teachers in project iAsti-
tutions (24 of whom were sent to Bell's headquarters in
Britain for an additional six-month course). Both language
centers were provided with fully equipped language labora-
tories.   On the whole, the use  of the experts was
satisfactory.
5.3      Equipment worth US$52.4 million, accounting for 71.5  of the total
Credit allocation, was procured in some 8,109 lots, of which 1,560 were
acquired by direct purchase end the rest through tendering.  As of June
1988, 7,177 sets (99.7S of the equipment received) had passed the accep-
tance test and were in good operating condition; 65 sets were not opera-
tional and the rest were in moderately operational condition. Most of the
claims were settled satisfactorily.
Newly Built or Renovated Laboratories
5.4      In 11 cofleges there were 22 newly built laboratorles completed
for computers, electronmlcroscopes, listruments for analytical tests and
ngineering with another 12 laboratories under construction. In all, 67
laboratories were renovated at the time of completion. For research work,
49 laboratories and nine plant stations (germplasm banks) have bean built
and six extra laboratories ore under construction. Zquipment and instru-
ments for the greenhouses for 3RI were delivered but had not yet been
installed. Computers for NRRT had been ordered but delivery was delayed
while clearance for the purchase was obtained. Increasing the Credit allo-
cation for equipment from US$50.5 to US$52.4 million facilitated the
construction of 32 extra laboratories upon the advice of Chinese experts
who participated in the study tours provided under the project.
5 5      For the 179 newly bullt and renovated laboratories, administrative
and tecbnical personnel have been trained, including 200 who were trained
abroad during the acceptance test-run carried out by foreign manufacturers.
Training courses organized locally covered 75 subjects, the duration of
which varied from 10 days to six months. The annual weekly utilization of
laboratories for teaching purposes exceeds 36 hours. The utllixatlon rate
of library and computer facilities is also considered very high.



- 11 -
Inrol_Jent and Outvput of Project Institutions
5.6      The enrollment of both undergraduates and post-graduates in
project institutions increased greatly during project implementation. A
282 increase in undergraduate enrollment and 442Z in post-grv lust, earoll-
mont were antLelpated as a result of the project. By the 1987/88 academic
year actual student enrollment increased by 58S at the undergraduate level
and 7711 at tho graduate level. The numbor of college graduates increased
aloag with the increase In total enrollment. The project target was an
ncrease of 18.8S in graduates; however, the actual increase by the 1987/88
scademLe year was 37.5S. The actual number of students in each category is
summarized in Table 3.
Table 3s ENROLLIENT AND STAFF STUDENT RATIOS
(Colleges and Universities Only)
Base                  Actual        I of
1980/81     Target     1987/88     target
Mumber of undergraduate students  18,350       23,500     28,992       123.4
Number of graduates                4,229        5,025      6,375       127.0
Mumber of post-graduate students      440       1,900      2,734       144.0
Teaching/research staff (entire
staff associated wlth teaching)    5,162            -      7,413         _
Student/teacher ratio              3.;s1            -        S1
5.7      While enrollment increased, the research activities also Increased
in the participating institutions, along with the corresponding teachingl
research staff. It should be noted that the student/teacher ratio has not
greatly changed. The student/teacher ratio was 3.4:1 in 1980/81 and was
about 5sl In 1987/88.
5.8      In undergraduate enrollment, institutional performance varied.
Rowever, most institutions achieved or exceeded the target set by the
project.   Undergraduate student enrollment in participating institutions
sumarixed in Table 4 reflects some increased estimates of target numbers
post appraisal.



- 12 -
Table 4: UNDERGRADUATE ENROLLMENT IN PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
lumbers
University                       Target      1986/87    1987/88
Nanjing Agricultural University              2,055       2,644      3,040
Central China Agricultural University        2,760       2,898      2,957
Soutb China Agricultural UnLversity          2,730       3,018      3,056
Northwest Agrlcultural Unlverslty            2,700       3,046      2,821
Southwest Agricultural University            2,820       2,903      2,302
Shenyang Agricultural UniversLty             2,880       2,604      2,668
Beijing Forestry University                  1,080       1,549      1,998
South China Tropical Crops College           1,590       1,275      1,366
Bohai (water resources) Universlty           3,028       4,803      5,643
Shanghai Aquatic Unlversity                    900       1,517      1,679
Nanjing Meteorologlcal University            1,176       1,058      1,462
Total                                   23,719      27.315     28.992
(122.22 of target)
5.9      It was reported that the quality of teaehing Improved in key areas
not reflected ln the data assembled by the lnstltutLons. All students, by
the time of thelr graduation, recelved traLLng ln computer sclence at key
universltLes such as the Beljlng Forestry University, BohaL UniversLty and
the Nanjing Meteorology UnLversity. Moreover, ln other project institu-
tlons a substantial number received training la the use of computers at a
relatively sophisticated level. These achievements were made possible by
the project.
5.10     A large number of graduates from tho agricultural universltLesl
colleges stay In their flelds of specialization. In Central China Agrlcul-
tural University, for example, only 9.9S of the graduates changed totally
to dlfferent fields.
5.11     Posttraduate Education.   In general post-graduate education
Lacreased ln all project listitutLons. The Increase ln post-graduate stu-
dents, durLig project Implementation was expected to be from about 436 to
1,900. The actual increase was over four-fold or 1442 over the projected
plan in teaching LnstLtutions whose primary responsibility ls to produce
well-trained professionals.   Several of the institutLons whilch had no
assigned target, such as Hohai Unlversity, started and developed a large
program wlth 466 post-graduate students, becoming the second largest post-
graduate program among the participatLng Institutions.
5.12     A number of research Institutions also developed new post-graduate
programs or expanded existing ones. These institution-based, post-graduate
programs of research increased from 89 to 123 between 1980181 and 1986/87.
Moreover, the number of schools and instLtutLons with state-approved
programs In graduate studies also increased. Since the graduate students
are attached to lndlvidual scientlsts or professors, the number of schools



- 13 -
having approved graduate programs only mensu that the school has one or
more professors of high standing who are approved to teach graduate
students.   Nevertheless,  the number of institutions having graduate
programs Increased from about 80 in 1980-81 to 278 In 1987.
5.13     Percent of Female Students at the Universities.  An increase in
the proportion of female students (out of total enrollment) from 17 to 21X
was envisaged at appraisal. The ratio Improved to about 26Z, some 23X over
target. Acceptance into college/university is entirely determined by each
student's score on the entrance examination which varies with the require-
ments of the province or municipality. About 101 of high school graduates
enter higher education. Unless a specl l effort is made at policy level to
accept more female students, the male/female ratio is automatically deter-
mined by the acceptance scores.   The selection of targets for female
enrollent, lf they are to be sustained post project, should have been
accompanLed by a new set of policies and moaitored to help to continue to
bring about the intended results.
Utilixation of Laboratories
5.14     A high utilization of laboratories was recorded for teaching,
research and public service activities. The summary ln Table 5 indicates
that laboratories were used on an average of 36 hours per week.
Table 5s LABORATORY AND CLASSROOM UTILIZATION
(hours/week)
Labs for   Labs for                               Audio-
basic      special   Central  Computer            visual
courses    courses    labs     rooms    Library  Labs
Annual average
weekly teaching
hours                40.9       48.6       42.9     54.7       57.3    38.8
For teaching           21.3       20.6        9.4     30.7       46.0    30.0
For research           14.8       25.0       23.5     19.6        9.0     5.8
Society servlce         4.8        3.0       10.0      4.4        2.3     3.0
Note:  Sources come from statistLcs of the project institutlons.  All the
figures are averages.
Research
5.15     Upgradinag Research Work in Colleges.  There has been slgnificant
lmprovement and expansion of research work in the 11 project colleges, all
of which were provided with fully equipped laboratories and training for
personnel in charge. Preliminary results attaLind in some of the leading
colleges during the perlod 1982 to 1987 show the following improvements.
Nanjing Agrlcultural College increased the number of its research projects



- 14 -
from 50 to 139.   In the same college, cotton and grain yields in the
experimental fields increased by about 792 as compared with results prlor
to project Intervention. Beijing Forestry College successfully established
a model project on water and soil conservation Irrigation control in
smaller river basins. Shenyang Agricultural College organixed specialised
training for professionals in various disciplinen who were highly success-
ful in their respective research work.   In South China Agricultural
College, 29 new research projects were Introduced.   East China Water
Conservation College was commissioned to conduct the tests for the design
program of the Daya Nuclear Station and successfully fulfilled the task.
5.16     Research Institutes.   Research activities of the seven project
assisted research institutes have been significantly improved and expanded
durLag the five-year project implementation period as follows:
(a) Information Center of the Chinese Academy of A2ricultural
Sciences (CAAS). The center trained a cadre of qualified
personnel who constitute the backbone of the country's modern
agricultural information servieo.  The project assisted In
the establishment of, amongst other things, a computer
Indexing system, a microfilm reproduction system, an audio-
visual aids system, a color printing system, and editing and
information sections.   Three international agricultural
information exchanges have been opened, and the capability
for speedy mass production of printed material has been
established.
(b) Animal Husbandry Research Center (CAAS).   The number of
research activities increased from 21 to 34. Major research
projects such as the establishment and operation of a Bull
and Rem Semen am  Embryo Bank and Investigative Study of the
National Distribution of the Content of the Trace Element
Selenium increased from 9 to 13.   The latter research
achieved worldwide recogaition.
(c)  Forest Resource Development Monitoring  Center - MOP.  A
remote sensing drawing system operated by VAXII-750 computer
has been instafled to supervise updated forest resource
development. The system was used in preparing projects under
the Sixth and Seventh Five-Year plans lncluding: application
of remote sensing technology in monitoring forest resource
development, study on agro-forest network in Northeast China
Plain by remote sensing, establishment of a data bank for
forest resources, research work on the classification of
remote sensing data on easy burning materials in the outbreak
of fire, as well as ten other related research projects.
(d) Water Conservation Service Research Center.   The center
manages eight research project subcomponents including two
projects, namely: (i) Beijing Academy of Water Conservation--
it has established a water quality test center and water
resource data bank, with the former receiving a national
award for a high standard of achievement. Research projects
in the academy have been doubled from 236 in i982 to 476 In



- 15 -
1987;and (it) NanSing Academy of Water Conservation increased
its research projects from 3 top 34, mainly due to tbe
Improved technological conditions and training of research
personnel provided under the project.   Publication of
research papers was also significantly increased.
(a) Neteorological Information Service Center.   The center has
established micro-ftl  and data processing systems. During a
three-year period (1984-87) 7,000 a microfilm equal to
148,000 pages was processed; 30,000 copies equivalent to 1.3
million station months were transforred from paper tape to
magnetic tape and computerized data processing for long
perlod pgecipitation, temperature and sunshine time was
completed.
(f)  Taihu Lake Base.   The main research activity was fully
launched in 1986 after the Listallation and trial run of
instruments and equipment provided under the project. As a
result, research work underwent significant growth wLth 40
research projects in operation in 1987. A study and survey
of fishery resources of Taihu Lake resulted in five
integrated reproduction measures and ten kinds of repro-
duction technology noted for higher yields were popularized.
The new technology thus developed helped to increase the per
capita income of fishermen from RIB 248 in 1980 to RIB 1,012
in 1987.
Cg) ChLna National Rice Research Institute. Because of delays ia
project doesgn and preparation of infrastructure, civil works
dld not start until 1986.  By 1987, eleven units of clvil
works were completed and seven were still under construction.
Six study groups were sent abroad for preparation of pro-
fessional studies to be undertaken by the institute.
Government's financing of the project increased from yuan
21.8 million in 1981 to yuan 40.54 million in 1987. Of the
US$9.87 million provided by the Credit, US$9.34 million was
disbursed as of June 30, 1988, leaving a balance of about
US$530,500 undisbursed.   The total cost of equlpment and
books purchased and contracted for was US$7.87 million. As
regards technical assistance, the participants who were sent
abroad comprised 13 PhD, 43 NSe and 23 candidates for
advanced training.  Of the 84 participants sent abroad, 15
have returned. As of June 30, 1988 NRRI was at a preliminary
stage of establishment and in the process of organizing
research. The institute was completed in October 1989.
5.17    Library Services.  The credit allocation for purchasing books and
journals was US$0.9 million and the Governmaent financing was expected to be
$1.6 million. With this amount the most necessary books for the libraries
were purehased. The library hours were extended and the stacks opened to
staff and students. The present opening hours of the lbrary are given in
Table 6.



- 16 -
Table 6: LIBRARY UTILIZATION
1982     Target     1986/87
Library open per week (hours)              59        60          77
Library stacks open per week (hours)        0      fully         41
Studies and Preparation of Future Protects
5.18     Under the project, US$2.7 million was allocated for studies which
would be used for the preparation of future projects. Project funds were
included to assist Government which, at the time of appraisal, had already
launched two major studies on agricultural research and manpower. A third
study, which measured the closeuess of fit between recent graduates of
project supported colleges and the jobs which were offered and the rapidity
at which new job holders could adapt to their assignments, was also
included and completed (Annexes 2 and 3).
Pro1ect Imnlementation
5.19     Thore were five amendments to the legal agreements recorded.
(a) In August 1983, am amending letter was sent to the Government
to enable a Special Account to be instituted for the project;
(b) In March 1987, an amendments was agreed to permit the project
to disburse against statements of expenses (SOEs);
(c)  In August 1987,  financial categories 1, 2, and 3 were
adjusted as follows:
Catetorv l:  Equipment, books and        45.37 million to 50.15
journals                  million SDR equivalent
Category 2:   Fellowships and training  14.64 million to 14.13
million SDR equivalent
Cateaorv 3s   Specialist service         4.85 million to 3.52
million SDR equivalent
(d) In February 1988, Part C of Schedule 3 of the DCA was amended
by replacing the aggregate amount of US$6 million with
US$12.5 million to be used for limited international
tenderLng; and
(e) In December 1988, the June 30, 1988 Project Closing Date was
extended to March 31, 1989.



- 17 -
5.20     During the six years of project implementation, there were 12 IDA
supervision missions, with an average interval of eight months and average
mission length of two weeks. Technical questions concerning construction,
equlpment and furniture were dealt with consistently by IDA, which also
showed a great deal of flexibility in ageesing to various modifications, in
collaboration with the Project Office and the State Science and Equipment
Center. As regards technical assistance, the Association's collaboration
was satisfactory with respect to the approval of experts and fellowships.
5.21     Due to the wide dispersion of the project sites, some of the
institutions were not regularly supervised by IDA.  However, supervision
was effectively complemented by timely intervention by the Project Office.
Taking into consideration the large number of project institutions and the
vast area in which they are located, more IDA supervision missionas may have
been beneficial to provide for better coverage of the project institutions.
VI. IDA PERFORMANCE
Proiect Generation
6.1      The project, as conceived and prepared by the Government and
appraised by IDA, was found to be in line with the urgent need of the
country as defined and elaborated in the Fifth and Sixth National Plans.
Project generation took less than two years from project initiation in
early 1981 to Credit Signature in November 1982. The speed with which the
Project was made effective demonstrates the Government's full determination
and IDA's readiness to accelerate the improvement and expansion of agricul-
tural education and research as a major support for sustained development
of the agricultural sector.
6.2      IDA undertook project identification, pre-appraisal and appraisal
missions. Considering the fact that the project was the first undertaking
of its kind by the Government in the field of agricultural education and
research, its contribution in the project conceptualization and design is
considered satisfactory.



- 19 -
Annex 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC OF CHINk
AGRICURAL EDUCATION AND RESEARC8   PROJECT (CR. 1297-CMA)
Overview
Beneficiary Colleaes and Institutes
College                       Ministry             Location
Institute                       Bureau
Affiliation
Nanjing Agricultural College            KOA               Nanjing, Jiangsu
Central China Agricultural College    1(A                 Wuhan, Hubei
South China Agricultural College       10                 Guangzhou, Guangdong
Northwestern Agricultural College       MOA               Chongqing, Sichuan
Shenyang Agricultural College          Wok                Shenyang, Liaoning
South China Tropical Crops College     Ministry of        Hainan, Guandong
State Farms &
Land Reclamation
Beijing Forestry University            Ministry of        Beijing, China
Forestry
East China Technical University        Ministry of        Nanjing, Jiangsu
of Water Resources                   Conservancy
Shanghai Aquatic Products College      General Bureau    Shangai
of Aquatic
Products
Nanjing Meteorological College          Central           Nanjing, Jiangsu
meteorological
Bureau
CAAS Animal Busbandy Research Inst.    CAAS, WOk          Beijing
CAAS Library and Inforation Center     CAAS, MQA          Beijing
Center for Monitoring Forestry         Ministry of        Beijing
Resources                            Forestry, Survey
& Planning Inst.
Water Conservancy Research Centers      Ministry of       8 locations,
Water
Conservancy
Lake Taihu Experimental Base            General Bureau   Wuxi, Jiangsu
of Aquatic
Products
Meteorology Data Service Center         Central           Beijing
Meteorological
Bureau
National Rice Research Institute        CAAS              Hangzhou, Zhejiang



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION AND RESEARCH PROJECT (CR. 1297-CNA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Tracer Studies
Measure of Fit Between Specialization and Jobs Offered
No. o
Year    Graduates Good Fit              Close Fit            Poor Fit             Bad Fit
Surveyed     2a         %         b/                  c         %          d/        %
1981-82         1,154       454      39.3       463       40.1       156       13.5        81       7.0
1983-84          881        301      34.2       402       45.6       104       11.8        74        8.4
1985             606                 31.8       2         41.6        92       16.0        63       10.4
Total           2,641       948       35.9     1,117      423        357       13.5       218        83
al Graduate sadsfied with job offer.
bI Graduate willing to take job offered.
c/ Job entails deviation from specializadon.



PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION AND RESEARCH PROJECT (CR. 1297-CHA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Tracer Studies
Ease of Adaptation to New Job
Easy                 1-2                 Over 2              Difficult
Year    Number         to                Yearsto               Years to                to
Adapt        %       Adapt        %       Adapt        %       Adapt        %
1981-82         1,020       553       54.2       360       35.3         92        9.0        15        1.5
1983-84           910       374       41.1       414       45.5        104       11.4        18        2.0
1985                        2 .2      39.1         1       44.6        7         13.3        17        2.9
Total           2,S15      1,156       46.0     1,035       4L2        274       10.9        S0        2.0



PEOPLES REPUDUC OF CHINA
AGRICULTURAL EDUCATIN AND RESEARCH PROJECT (CR. 1297-CHA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project Indiatrs and Target
Btas    Midway   Final    Actusl      of
Indleetor/Taroet                                             1980.51 1983.8419115.86   1t87    Taroet
Enrolblent and output In proiect InstItuions
Undergraduate                                                                                                18,350  19,320  23.500    28,992        123
Postgraduate                                                                                                    440     950   1.900       2.734      144
Female enrollmenl o %)                                                                                           17       19      21        26       123
Undergraduate ouput                                                                                           4.229   4.195   5,025       8,375      127
0uolltbtw  Improvment
Qualty of statl and its source
# staff wh les education fan four years of poetoondary  Aududs                                                17       12      - 5         5       97
% staff In top three grades under 45 years of age (1.195 m_ebef)
Doctoal degrees                                                                                              0       2        5         3        54
Masteos degroos                                                                                           Few        5       15        22       144
Curiuum Imprvmem, exansion and broadning
# of exprIkns conducted of of to  required cunrula                                                            59       70       83        91      109
Numbe of graduate deg    pgramms authodzed by slate eouncl (by specaly)
Doctoral deges                                                                                             t0       35       55        57       104
Mastees degrees                                                                                             70     110                178       162
Etablshing agr. eduOsloexton unts   I pct  og  (No. colleges)                                                  0        a       6          9      150
Imnducing a basic couse In faming systems (% of students ened)                                                 0       20      50
Strengthening agr. em um. cos  & expandin  enolmnt (as %d enr omen
Undergraduate                                                                                                7       8       10        17       166 SE 
Postgraduate                                                                                                3        6       10        12        S 111
hmproving student Intafta (V. of freshmen admifted with nnal college scores bebw 340)                          7       c4        1               100
Promptingi intercolege student exchange (V. of pof tradates who took thdr  dw aduate work at another colie)  c 4        5  >   10         33      132
Delaying studenro decision to chwose specialized area after admssion to coWe ( No. of coleges)                 I        3        5         -
Resreah  mproemnmt
Quality of Research
% of staff resech publised n
Locai colge  -ma                                                                                          > e90     90      c SD       33       180
CAA8 ourmas                                                                                               e tO      10    ,20          25       246
CAS and International jonals                                                                               e5        5      3,t0       42       425
Mftage.ment Improvemnwt
Improving staff utlPaation  (expsed In teachbr.studt r tio)                                                  1: 3.6   1: 4.2   1:5        1:4.9       e8
Improig space utilzation (. tstlihatlon)                                                                        <t       45      >p60       68       113
Ext     the perWi o liay sAes (hoursek)                                                                          40       so      80       77.2       97
Sroaden    access of sudes to liby mateal                                                                      No       Smo    Fully   Partial
Source: Prpared by the misson en PRO Intmadln.



- 23 -
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER                                     ATTACMENT I
WORLOBANK TMSS
ZCZC OERP0539 IUBOIBO
OEDD1
.TCP SD
**** * *** *
* OEDDI *
* ***** **$*
ON INSUBK
.FTCCMAC 02-01439.01
3/3/90
TO MR. GRANHAM DONALDSON, CHIEF, AGRICULTURE, INFRASTRUCTURE AND
HUMAN RESOURCES DIVIDION OPERATIONS EVALUATION DEPARTMENT
RE. CHINA AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION AND RESEARCH PROJECT (CREDIT
1297-CHA) ---PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UE HAVE RECEIVED YOUR LETTER OF JANUARY 25, 1990 PERTAINING TO
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT ON AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION AND RESEARCH
PROJECT (CREDIT 1297-CHA) AND THE ATTACHED PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
(PCR)
WE STUDIED THE PCR AND AGREED TO IT. REGARDS, JIN CUNFU, PROJECT
COORDINATOR
22233 MAGR CN
KKKKK
-03030809
NNNN



